He and the Major reached the airlock at the same time and became temporarily engaged with each other. Movement was somewhat ungainly in the space suits under the best of conditions, and now, with the necessity for speed, was doubly so. The other two crashed into them from behind, and they spewed forth from the dome in a tangle of arms and legs. At the table, they separated, two going to the left, two to the right. The table remained untouched. When they halted, Capt. Wilkins said, "Get to one side, it may go off like shrapnel." They obeyed. "What -- what -- what?" Capt. Lawler stuttered. They were still separated, two on one side of the airlock, two on the other. "I'm going to try to look," Capt. Wilkins said. "Let me go." He lumbered directly away from the dome for a distance of about fifteen feet, then turned and positioned himself, some five feet behind the table, on a line of sight with the airlock. "I can see it," he said. "It's getting redder. It's...it's... melting, yes. Melting down at the bottom a little. Now it's falling over to one side and laying on the air tank. The air tank is getting red, too. I'm afraid...it's weakening it... Redder. Oh, oh." "What?" said Capt. Lawler. "W a t c h out ! There. There r Capt. Wilkins leaped from his position. He was still floating toward the ground when there was an incredibly bright flare from inside the dome, and a great, silent tongue of flame lashed through the airlock and rolled across the lunar surface. The table was sent tumbling. The flame was gone almost instantly. "There went the air," Capt. Lawler commented. "We got T-Trouble," said Lt. Chandler. IV wait before they dared venture back, Capt. Wilkins, interrupted once by what appeared to be a moderately mild after-shock from the previous moonquake, explained the phenomena they had just observed. "A room-temperature-curing epoxy liberates heat during its curing reaction. And the hotter it is when you mix it, the faster it reacts. The drum had been absorbing heat out here for several hours much faster than it could radiate it away. It may have been forty or fifty degrees C when we stirred in the curing agent. At that temperature, a pound mass will normally kick over in five or ten minutes. But here, the only way it can lose the reaction heat is by the slow process of radiation. And that means as the heat builds up, the epoxy goes faster and faster, building up even more heat. And furthermore, we're not talking about a pound, which can maybe get up to # C. in air. We're talking about # pounds, liberating five hundred times as much heat as one pound, and getting God knows how hot -- " "I sure wish you'd have told me this a little bit earlier," Major Winship said. "I certainly wish you'd told me." Capt. Wilkins said, "Honest, it never occurred to me Finogenov would be dumb enough to tell us to mix a whole drum of epoxy." Major Winship began to curse mechanically. "I don't think he did it deliberately, Charlie. I really don't," Captain Lawler said. "I don't think he knew any better. Maybe he was showing off by giving us a whole drum. Hell, I know he was showing off. But something like that could kill somebody, and I don't think he'd go that far." "Think it's safe, yet?" Major Winship asked. He was perspiring freely again. "I need some thermal protection. What'll we do? You know damned well. We'll have to go live with them. by Kris Neville Arid that sticks in my craw, gentlemen. That -- sticks -- in my -- craw' "There's nothing for it," Capt. Wilkins said helpfully. "Let me go in and survey the damage," Lt. Chandler said. "That's my job," Major Winship said. "I've got to go in anyway." He lumbered through the airlock and stepped into the total darkness through the razor-edge curtain. "I see it glowing, still," he said. "It's almost as bad in here as out there, now. I guess it's okay. Come on. Let's bumble around finding the air bottles for the suits and get over there before I'm a boiled lobster. Not only is my reefer out, so's my light." "Coming." An air of urgency began to accumulate. "What are we going to do with him? It's a half-hour run over there." "Think you can make it, Charlie?" "I'm damned well hot." "Charlie, come out here. In the car. Skip, you get 'the bottles. You drive." Major Winship came out. "Lay down in back," Capt. Wilkins said. "Les, you lay down beside him. I'll lay on top of him. I think we can shield him pretty good that way." "That's good thinking," Capt. Lawler said from inside. The operation was not easily executed. Lt. Chandler got in first, and then Major Winship squeezed beside him. "Careful, there," he said as Capt. Wilkins came aboard. Capt. Wilkins's foot rolled off one of Major Winship's thighs. "Watch it!" "I am." "Oops !" "Ufff! I felt that. Ugh. Thank God for the way these are built." "How's that?" Capt. Wilkins asked. "I guess... It's okay, I guess." "Cooler?" "It's too soon to tell. Man, I'll bet we look silly." Capt. Lawler came out with the bottles and studied his companions for a moment. "See if we can get up and over a little more, Les." "This okay?" "B e t t e r. How's it feel, Charlie?" "Okay." Cant. Lawler deposited the air bottles. "Everyone got enough air?" "I guess we're all okay," Capt. Wilkins said; "Don't we look silly?" Major Winship asked plaintively. "I can't possibly describe my emotions at this minute." "You look all right," Capt. Lawler said. "Still hot?" Major Winship grunted. He said nothing. "I'll get there as fast as I ran # . jarring across the lunar surface, Major Winship said, "Fm not appreciably cooler; but then I'm not appreciably hotter, either." "Shut up, Charlie. You're a thirty-year man," Lt. Chandler said. "Old soldiers never die, they just become desiccated." "I'd like a beer," Major W in ship said. "A cold, frosty, foamy beer. Big collar. Gimme a beer, a little shaker of salt --  "Finogenov's probably got eight or ten cases." "For once, I hope you're right. Try to bounce a little easier, Larry." "R u s s i a n s don't drink beer," Lt. Chandler said. "You sure?" "Vodka," Capt Lawler grunted. "They drink champagne, you idiots," Capt. Wilkins said. "Beggars can't be choosers," Major Winship said. "Champagne is okay by me. if it's just cold." "Finogenov will have a few hundred pounds of ice." "Cut it out," Major Winship said. "Boy, you wait till we get you back to Earth. When it comes time to reup, I'm going to be there. I'm going to remind you of this one." "You're a thirty-year man, too, Les," Major Winship said. "Not me," Lt. Chandler said. "I've had it, dad. Fm going to sell my life story to the movies and spend the rest of my life eating popcorn and watching what an idiot I was. A man can get hurt up here." "So you want to be a civilian?" "You're damned right I do," Lt. Chandler said. "We're about there," Capt. Lawler cut in. "You still okay, Charlie?" "Fine." "Here's the little ridge, then. Hold on, we're taking the angle up. You riding okay, Charlie?" "Fine, Skip." After a moment, Capt. Lawler said, "I see the base now. The top. Hey!" He slammed on the brakes. "Oh, no! Those...those fools! Those idiots." "What's wrong?" Major Winship demanded. "Skip -- what's wrong?" "The second little dome is down. It wasn't that way a couple of hours ago. And they've block-and-tackled a drum of calking compound up on the main dome." "We've got to stop them!" Major Winship cried. "Skip! Skip!'?  "Charlie, there's nothing we can do. The drum's just starting to turn red." There was silence for a while. "It's melting through, now. There it goes. Down through the dome. Out of sight." After a moment, Capt. Lawler continued. "Funny how by Kris Nevills things fall so slowly under this low gravity. It floated through their dome just like a feather. You should have seen it." Eventually, Lt. Chandler said, "Boys, this is my last hitch." There was more silence. Capt. Wilkins mused, "I guess they didn't have a little scale either." Someone was breathing loudly. At length, Major Winship said reflectively, "Why do you suppose they would try to calk it from the outside?" Again silence. Major Winship asked the question. "Okay. Let's have it. How's the other little dome?" "Other one? Oh, sorry," Capt. Lawler said. "It looks all right." "It better be all right," Lt. Chandler said. I N the end, the eleven of them were crowded into the one remaining operational structure of the four available on the moon at sunrise. For perhaps the tenth time, General Finogenov offered his apologies. He and Major Winship were huddled side by side in a corner. They were drinking vodka. "Plenty of everything," General Finogenov said. "Don't concern yourself, Major. Air, food, water, we have more than enough for a prolonged siege." "Accidents will happen." "Exactly," said General Finogenov, pouring more vodka for himself. "Glad you understand." He put the empty bottle down. "We will have another one next week. In the meantime -- I very much regret the inconvenience. Plenty of food, water, air, though. Pinov! Pinov! Vodka!" Pinov answered in Russian. General Finogenov frowned. "Dear, dear," he said. "I'm afraid this must be our last one, Major. You see, while we have plenty of everything else, we are, you see... The truth of the matter is, we didn't foresee visitors. Unfortunately, we have no more vodka." "No more vodka," said General Finogenov. He stared morosely into the inky distance. "Major Winship, I have a confession. Oh, that second one was a beauty. You didn't feel it?" "Our leak sprang on the first one. The second was quite mild, we thought." "We were right on the fault line," General Finogenov said. "As you Americans say, it was a beauty. I have a confession. One must admit one's mistakes." "Yes?" "We used much too large a bomb," he said. "I'm with you," Lt. Chandler chimed in from somewhere out of the darkness. "But when do you think you're going to get the lights IF  Short Story A T nine hundred hours there were explosions off to the right at about seven hundred yards. At eleven hundred hours the slagger came by to pick up the casualties among the gadgets. Charlie saw the melting head at the end of its heavy beam going up and down like the front end of a hardworking chicken only about fifty yards west of his foxhole. Then it worked its way across the battlefield for about half an hour and, loaded down with melted forms of damaged robots, of all shapes and varieties, disappeared behind the low hill to the west, and left, of Charlie. It was a hot August day somewhere in or near Ohio, with a thunderstorm coming Peace is well worth dying for... it had better be! on. There was that yellow color in the air. At twelve hundred hours the chow gadget came ticking over the redoubt behind the foxhole. It crawled into the foxhole, jumped up on the large table and opened itself out to reveal lunch. The menu this day was liver and onions, whole corn, whipped potato and raspberries. "And no whip cream' said Charlie. "You haven't been doing your exercises," said the chow gadget in a fine soprano voice. "I'm a front-line soldier," said Charlie. "I'm an infantryman in a foxhole overlooking ground zero. I'll be damned if I take exercises." "In any case, there is no excuse for not shaving." "I'll be damned if I shave." "But why not shave? Wouldn't it be better than having that itchy, scratchy beard -- " "No," said Charlie. He went around back of the chow gadget and began to take its rear, plate off. "What are you doing to me?" said the chow gadget. "You've got something stuck to you here," said Charlie. "Hold still." He surreptitiously took a second out to scratch at his four-day beard. "There's a war on, you know." "I know that," said the chow gadget. "Of course." "Infantrymen like me are dying daily." "Alas," said the chow gadget, in pure, simple tones. "To say nothing," said Charlie, setting the rear plate to one side, "of the expenditure of you technical devices. Not that there's any comparison between human lives and the wastage of machines." "Of course not." "So how can any of you, no matter how elaborate your computational systems, understand -- " Charlie broke off to poke among the innards of the chow machine. T# not damage me," it L' said. "Not if I can help it," said Charlie. " -- understand what it feels like to a man sitting here day after day, pushing an occasional button, never knowing the results of his button pushing, and living in a sort of glass-case comfort except for the possibility that he may just suddenly be dead -- suddenly, like that, before he knows it." He broke off to probe again. "It's no life for a man." "Terrible, terrible," said the chow gadget. "But there is still hope for improvement." "Don't hold your breath," said Charlie. "There's -- ah !" He interrupted himself, pulling a small piece of paper out of the chow gadget. "Is there something the matter?" said the chow gadget. "No," said Charlie. He stepped over to the observation window and glanced out. The slagger was making its return. It was already within about fifty yards of the foxhole. "Not a thing," said Charlie. "As a matter of fact, the war's over." "How interesting," said the chow gadget. "That's right," said Charlie. "Just let me read you this little billet-doux I got from Foxhole thirty-four. Meet you back at the bar , Charlie. It's all over. Your hunch that we could get a message across was the clear quill. Answer came today the same way , through the international weather reports. They want to quit as well as we do. Peace is agreed on, and the gadgets -- " Charlie broke off to look at the chow gadget. "That's you, along with the rest of them." "Quite right. Of course said the chow gadget. " -- have already accepted the information. Well be out of here by sundown. And that takes care of the war." "It does indeed' said the chow gadget. "Hurrah! And farewell." "Farewell? said Charlie. "You will be returning to civilian life," said the chow gadget. "I will be scrapped." "That's right," said Charlie. "I remember the preprograming for the big units. This war's to be the last, they were programe d. Well -- " said Charlie. For a moment he hesitated. "What d'you know? I may end up missing you a little bit, after all." He glanced out the window. The slagger was almost to the dugout. "Well, well," he said. "Now that the time's come...we did have quite a time together, three times a day. No more string beans, huh?" "I bet not," said the chow gadget with a little laugh. "No more caramel pudding." "I guess so." outside, broke the thick concrete roof off the dugout and laid it carefully aside. "Excuse me," it said, its cone-shaped melting head nodding politely some fifteen feet above Charlie. "The war's over." "I know," said Charlie. "Now there will be peace. There are orders that all instruments of war are to be slagged and stockpiled for later peaceful uses." It had a fine baritone voice. "Excuse me," it said, "but are you finished with that chow gadget there?" "You haven't touched a bite," said the chow gadget. "Would you like just a small spoonful of raspberries?" "I don't think so," said Charlie, slowly. "No, I don't think so." "Then farewell," said the chow gadget. "I am now expendable." The melting head of the slagger dipped toward the chow gadget. Charlie opened his mouth suddenly, but before he could speak, there was a sort of invisible flare from the melting head and the chow gadget became a sort of puddle of metal which the melting head picked up magnetically and swung back to the hopper behind it. "Blast it!" said Charlie with feeling. "I could just as well have put in a request to keep the darn thing for a souvenir." The heavy melting head bobbed apologetically back. "I'm afraid that wouldn't be possible," it said. "The order allows no exceptions. All military instruments are to be slagged and stockpiled." "Well -- " said Charlie. But it was just about then that he noticed the melting head was by Gordon R. Dickson IF  Novelette What's the principal cause of headaches? Why, having T '  to use force on Macklin to get him to cooperate in the experiment ?" Ferris asked eagerly. "How are you going to go about forcing him, Doctor?" Mitchell inquired. "He outweighs you by fifty pounds and you needn't look to me for help against that' repatriated fullback." Ferris fingered the collar of his starched lab smock. "Guess I got carried away for a moment. But Macklin is exactly what we need for a quick, dramatic test. We've had it if he turns us down." "I know," Mitchell said, exhaling deeply. "Somehow the men with the money just can't seem to understand basic research. Who would have financed a study of cyclic periods of the hedgehog? Yet the information gained from that study is vital in cancer research." "When we prove our results that should be of enough practical value for anyone. But those crummy trustees didn't even leave us enough for a field test." Ferris scrubbed his thin hand over the bony ridge of his forehead. "I've been worrying so much about this I've got the ancestor of all headaches." Mitchell's blue eyes narrowed and his boyish face took on an expression of demonic intensity. "Ferris, would you consider -- ?" "No!" the smaller man yelled. "You can't expect me to violate professional ethics and test my own discovery on myself' "Our discovery," Mitchell said politely. "That's what I meant to say. But I'm not sure it would be completely ethical with even a discovery partly mine." "You're right. Besides who cares if you or I are cured of headaches? Our reputations don't go outside our own fields' Mitchell said. "But now Macklin -- " Elliot Macklin had inherited the reputation of the late Albert Einstein in the popular mind. He was the man people thought of when the word "mathematician" or even "scientist" was mentioned. No one knew whether his Theory of Spatium was correct or not because no one had yet been able to frame an argument with it. Macklin was in his early fifties but looked in his late thirties, with the build of a football player. The government took up a lot of his time using him as the symbol of the Ideal Scientist to help recruit Science and Engineering Cadets. For the past seven years Macklin -- who was the Advanced Studies Department of Firestone University -- had been involved in devising a faster-than-light drive to help the Army reach Pluto and eventually the nearer stars. SO Mitchell had overheard two coeds talking and so knew that the project was nearing completion. If so, it was a case of Ad astra per aspirin. The only thing that could delay the project was Macklin's health. Despite his impressive body, some years before he had suffered a mild stroke...or at least a vascular spasm of a cerebral artery. It was known that he suffered from the vilest variety of migraine. A cycle of the headaches had caused him to be absent from his classes for several weeks, and there were an unusual number of military uniforms seen around the campus. measurements of the office outside the laboratory in the biology building. Mitchell sat slumped in the chair behind the blond imitation wood desk, watching him disinterestedly. "Do you suppose the Great Man will actually show up?" Ferris demanded, pausing in mid-stride. "I imagine he will," Mitchell said. "Macklin's always seemed a decent enough fellow when I've had lunch with him or seen him at the trustees meetings." "He's always treated me like dirt," Ferris said heatedly. "Everyone on this campus treats biologists like dirt. Sometimes I want to bash in their smug faces." Sometimes, Mitchell reflected, Ferris displayed a certain lack of scientific detachment. There came a discreet knock on the door. 'Please come in' Mitchell said. Elliot Macklin entered in a cloud of pipe smoke and a tweed jacket. He looked more than a little like a postgraduate student, and Mitchell suspected that that was his intention. He shook hands warmly with Mitchell. "Good of you to ask me over, Steven' Macklin threw a big arm across Ferris' shoulders. "How have you been, Harold?" Ferris' face flickered between pink and white. "Fine, thank you, doctor." Macklin dropped on the edge of the desk and adjusted his pipe. "Now what's this about you wanting my help on something? And please keep the explanation simple. Biology isn't my field, you know." Mitchell moved around the desk casually. "Actually, Doctor, we haven't the. right to ask this of a man of your importance. There may be an element of risk." The mathematician clamped onto his pipe and showed his teeth. "Now you have me intrigued. What is it all about?" "Doctor, we understand you have severe headaches," Mitchell said. Macklin nodded. "That's right, Steven. Migraine." "That must be terrible," Ferris said. "All your fine reputation and lavish salary can't be much consolation when that ripping, tearing agony begins, can it?" "No, Harold, it isn't," Macklin admitted. "What does your project have to do with my headaches?" "Doctor," Mitchell said, "what would you say the most common complaint of man is?" "I would have said the common cold," Macklin replied, "but I suppose from what you have said you mean headaches." agreed. "Everybody has them at some time in his life. Some people have them every day. Some are driven to suicide by their headaches." "Yes," Macklin said. "But think," Ferris interjected, "what a boon it would be if everyone could be cured of headaches forever by one simple injection." "I don't suppose the manufacturers of aspirin would like you. But it would please about everybody else." "Aspirins would still be used to reduce fever and relieve muscular pains," Mitchell said. "I see. Are you two saying you have such a shot? Can you cure headaches?" "We think we cao' Ferris said. by Jim Harmon "How can you have a specific for a number of different causes?"' Macklin asked. "I know that much about the subject." "There are a number of different causes for headaches -- nervous strain, fatigue, physical diseases from kidney complaints to tumors, over-indulgence -- but there is one effect of all of this, the one real cause of headaches," Mitchell announced. "We have definitely established this for this first time," Ferris added. "That's fine," Macklin said, sucking on his pipe. "And this effect that produces headaches is?" "The pressure effect caused by pituitrin in the brain," Mitchell said eagerly. "That is, the constriction of blood vessels in the telencephalon section of the frontal lobes. It's caused by an over-production of the pituitary gland. We have artificially bred a virus that feeds on pituitrin." "That may mean the end of headaches, but I would think it would mean the end of the race as well," Macklin said. "In certain areas it is valuable to have a constriction of blood vessels." "The virus," Ferris explained, "can easily be localized and stabilized. A colony of virus in the brain cells will relax the cerebral vessels -- and only the cerebral vessels -- so that the cerebrospinal fluid doesn't create pressure in the cavities of the brain." The mathematician took the pipe out of his mouth. "If this really works, I could stop using that damned gynergen, couldn't I? The stuff makes me violently sick to my stomach. But it's better than the migraine. How should I go about removing my curse ?" He reinserted the pipe. "I assure you, you can forget ergotamine tartrate," Ferris said. "Our discovery will work." W S aid thoughtfully. "The operative word. It hasn't worked then?" "Certainly it has," Ferris said. "On rats, on chimps..." "But not on humans?" Macklin asked. "Not yet," Mitchell admitted. "Well," Macklin said. "Well." He thumped pipe ashes out into his palm. "Certainly you can get volunteers. Convicts. Conscientious objectors from the Army." "We want you," Ferris told him. Macklin coughed. "I don't want to overestimate my value but the government wouldn't like it very well if I died in the middle of this project. My wife would like it even less." Ferris turned his back on the mathematician. Mitchell could see him mouthing the word yellow . "Doctor," Mitchell said quickly, "I know it's a tremendous favor to ask of a man of your position. But you can understand our problem. Unless we can produce quick, conclusive and dramatic proof of our studies we can get no more financial backing. We should run a large-scale field test. But we haven't the time or money for that. We can cure the headaches of one person and that's the limit of our resources." "I'm tempted," Macklin said hesitantly, "but the answer is go. I mean no I'd like to help you out, but I'm afraid I owe too much to others to take the rest -- the risk, I mean." Macklin ran the back of his knuckles across his forehead. "I really would like to take you up on it. When I start making slips like that it means another attack of migraine. through my temples and around my eyeballs. The flashes of light, the rioting pools of color playing on the back of my lids. Ugh." Ferris smiled. "Gynergen makes you sick, does it, doctor? Produces nausea, eh? The pain of that turns you almost wrong side out, doesn't it? You aren't much better off with it than without, are you? I've heard some say they preferred the migraine." Macklin carefully arranged his pipe along with the tools he used to tend it in a worn leather case. "Tell me," he said, "what is the worst that could happen to me?" "Low blood. pressure," Ferris said. "That's not so bad," Macklin said. "How low can it get?" "When your heart stops, your blood pressure goes to its lowest point," Mitchell said. A dew of perspiration had bloomed on Macklin's forehead. "Is there much risk of that ?" "Practically none," Mitchell said. "We have to give you the worst possibilities. All our test animals survived and seem perfectly happy and contented. As I said, the virus is self-stabilizing. Ferris and I are confident that there is no danger... But we may be wrong." Macklin held his head in both hands. "Why did you two select me?" "You're an important man, doctor," Ferris said. "Nobody would care if Mitchell or I cured ourselves of headaches -- they might not even believe us if we said we did. But the proper authorities will believe a man of your reputation. Besides, neither of us has a record of chronic migraine. You do." "Yes, I do," Macklin said. "Very well. Go ahead. Give me your injection." Mitchell cleared his throat. "Are you positive, doctor?" he asked uncertainly. "Perhaps you would like a few days to think it over." "No! I'm ready. Go ahead, right now." by Jim Harmon "There's a simple release," Ferris said smoothly. Macklin groped in his pocket for a pen. II  slamming the laboratory door behind him. "Right here," the small man said briskly. He was sitting at a work table, penciling notes. "I've been expecting you." "Doctor -- Harold -- you shouldn't have given this story to the newspapers," Mitchell said. He tapped the back of his hand against the folded paper. "On the contrary, I should and I did," Ferris answered. "We wanted something dramatic to show to the trustees and here it is." "Yes, we wanted to show our proof to the trustees -- but not broadcast unverified results to the press. It's too early for that!" "Don't be so stuffy and conservative, Mitchell! Macklin's cured, isn't he? By established periodic cycle he should be suffering hell right now, shouldn't he? But thanks to our treatment he is perfectly happy, with no unfortunate side effects such as gynergen produces." "It's a significant test case, yes. But not enough to go to the newspapers with. If it wasn't "enough to go to the press with, it wasn't enough to try and breach the trustees with. Don't you see? The public will hand down a ukase demanding our virus, just as they demanded the Salk vaccine and the Grennell serum." "But -- " The shrill call of the telephone interrupted Mitchell's objections. Ferris excused himself and crossed to the instrument. He answered it and listened for a moment, his face growing impatient. "It's Macklin's wife," Ferris said. "Do you want to talk to her? I'm no good with hysterical women." "Hysterical?" Mitchell muttered in alarm and went to the phone. "Hello?" Mitchell said reluctantly. "Mrs. Macklin?" "You are the other one," the clear feminine voice said. "Your name is Mitchell." She couldn't have sounded calmer or more self-possessed, Mitchell thought. "That's right, Mrs. Macklin. I'm Dr. Steven Mitchell, Dr. Ferris's associate." "Do you have a license to dispense narcotics?" "What do you mean by that, Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell said sharply. "I used to be a nurse, Dr. Mitchell. I know you've given my husband heroin." "That's absurd. What makes you think a thing like that?" "The -- trance he's in now." "Now, Mrs. Macklin. Neither Dr. Ferris or myself have been near your husband for a full day. The effects of a narcotic would have worn off by this time." '"Most known narcotics," she admitted, "but evidently you have discovered something new. Is it so expensive to refine you and Ferris have to recruit new customers to keep yourselves supplied?" "Mrs. Macklin! I think I had better talk to you later when you are calmer." Mitchell dropped the receiver heavily. "What could be wrong with Macklin?" he asked without removing his hand from the telephone. Ferris frowned, making quotation marks above his nose. "Let's have a look at the test animals." Together they marched over to the cages and peered through the honeycomb pattern of the wire. The test chimp. Dean, was sitting peacefully in a corner scratching under his arms with the back of his knuckles. Jerry, their control in the experiment, who was practically Dean's twin except that he had received no injection of the E-M Virus, was stomping up and down punching his fingers through the wire, worrying the lock on the cage. "Jerry is a great deal more active than Dean," Mitchell said. "Yes, but Dean isn't sick. He just doesn't seem to have as much nervous energy to burn up. Nothing wrong with his thyroid either." They went to the smaller cages. They found the situation with the rats, Bud and Lou, much the same. "I don't know. Maybe they just have tired blood," Mitchell ventured. "Iron deficiency anemia?" "Never mind, doctor. It was a form of humor. I think we had better see exactly what is wrong with Elliot Macklin." "There's nothing wrong with him," Ferris snapped. "He's probably just trying to get us in trouble, the ingrate !" ranch house was small but attractive in aqua-tinted aluminum. Under Mitchell's thumb the bell chimbed dum-de-de-dumdum-dum. As they waited Mitchell glanced at Ferris. He seemed completely undisturbed, perhaps slightly curious. The door unlatched and swung back. "Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell said quickly, "I'm sure we can help if there is anything wrong with your husband. This is Dr. Ferris. I am Dr. Mitchell." "You had certainly better help him, gentlemen." She stood out of the doorway for them to pass. Mrs. Macklin was an attractive brunette in her late thirties. She wore an expensive yellow dress. And she had a by Jim Harmon sharp-cornered jawline. The Army officer came out into the hall to meet them. "You are the gentlemen who gave Dr. Macklin the unauthorized injection," he said. It wasn't a question. "I don't like that 'unauthorized'," Ferris snapped. The colonel -- Mitchell spotted the eagles on his green tunic -- lifted a heavy eyebrow. "No? Are you medical doctors? Are you authorized to treat illnesses?" "We weren't treating an illness," Mitchell said. "We were discovering a method of treatment. What concern is it of yours?" The colonel smiled thinly. "Dr. Macklin is my concern. And everything that happens to him. The Army doesn't like what you have done to him." Mitchell wondered desperately just what they had done to the man. "Can we see him?" Mitchell asked. "Why not? You can't do much worse than murder him now. That might be just as well. We have laws to cover that." The colonel led them into the comfortable, over-feminine living room. Macklin sat in an easy chair draped in embroidery, smoking. Mitchell suddenly realized Macklin used a pipe as a form of masculine protest to his home surroundings. On the coffee table in front of Macklin were some oddshaped building blocks such as were used in nursery schools. A second uniformed man -- another colonel but with the snake-entwined staff of the medical corps in his insignia -- was kneeling at the table on the marble-effect carpet. The Army physician stood up and brushed his knees, undusted from the scrupulously clean rug. "What's wrong with him, Sidney?" the other officer asked the doctor. "Not a thing," Sidney said. "He's the healthiest, happiest, most well-adjusted man I've ever examined, Carson." "But -- " Colonel Carson protested. "Oh, he's changed all right," the Army doctor answered. "He's not the same man as he used to be." "How is he different?" Mitchell demanded. The medic examined Mitchell and Ferris critically before answering. "He used to be a mathematical genius." "And now?" Mitchell said impatiently. "Now he is a moron," the medic said. Ill M itchell tried to stop Colonel Sidney as he went past, but the doctor mumbled he had a report to make. Mitchell and Ferris stared at Colonel Carson and Macklin and at each other. "What did he mean, Macklin is an idiot ?" Mitchell asked. "Not an idiot," Colonel Carson corrected primly. "Dr. Macklin is a moron. He's legally responsible, but he's extremely stupid." "I'm not so dumb," Macklin said defensively. "I beg your pardon, sir," Carson said. "I didn't intend any offense. But according to all the standard intelligence tests we have given you, your clinical intelligence quotient is that of a moron." "That's just on book learning," Macklin said. "There's a lot you learn in life that you don't get out of books, son." "I'm confident that's true, sir," Colonel Carson said. He turned to the two biologists. "Perhaps we had better speak outside." "But -- " Mitchell said, impatient to examine Macklin for himself. "Very well. Let's step into the hall." Ferris followed them docilely. "What have you done to him?" the colonel ' r asked straightforwardly. "We merely cured him of his headaches," Mitchell said. "How?" Mitchell did his best to explain the F-M Virus. "You mean," the Army officer said levelly "you have infected him with some kind of a disease to rot his braiif ?" "No, ho ! Could I talk to the other man, the doctor? 'Maybe by 'Jim Harmon I can make him understand." "All I want to know is why Elliot Macklin has been made as simple as if he had been kicked in the head by a mule," Colonel Carson said. "I think I can explain," Ferris interrupted. "You can?" Mitchell said. Ferris nodded. "We made a slight miscalculation. It appears as if the virus colony overcontrols the supply of posterior pituitary extract in the cerebrum. It isn't more than necessary to stop headaches. But that necessary amount of control to stop pain is too much to allow the brain cells to function properly." "Why won't they function?" Carson roared. "They don't get enough food -- blood, oxygen, hemoglobin," Ferris explained. "The cerebral vessels don't contract enough to pump the blood through the brain as fast and as hard as is needed. The brain cells remain sluggish, dormant. Perhaps decay yy in g. The colonel yelled. Mitchell groaned. He was abruptly sure Ferris was correct. T HE colonel drew himself to attention, fists trembling at his sides. "I'll see you hung for treason! Don't you know what Elliot Matklin means to us? Do you Want those filthy Luxemburgians to reach Pluto before we do? Macklin's formula is essnmight just as well have blown up Washington, D.C. Better! The capital is replaceable. But the chances of an Elliot Macklin are very nearly once in a human race." "Just a moment," Mitchell interrupted, "we can cure Macklin." "You can?" Carson said. For a moment Mitchell thought the man was going to clasp his hands and sink to his knees. "Certainly. We have learned to stabilize the virus colonies. We have antitoxin to combat the virus. We had always thought of it as a beneficial parasite, but we can wipe it out if necessary." "Good!" Carson clasped his hands and gave at least slightly at the knees. "Just you wait a second now, boys," Elliot Macklin said. He was leaning in the doorway, holding his pipe. "I've been listening to what you've been saying and I don't like it." "What do you mean you don't like it?" Carson demanded. He added, "Sir?" "I figure you mean to put me back like I used to be." "Yes, doctor," Mitchell said eagerly, "just as you used to be." "With my headaches, like before?" Mitchell coughed into his fist for an instant, to give him time to frame an answer. "Unfortunately, yes. Apparently if yoqr mind functions properly once again you will have the headaches again. Our research is a dismal failure." "I wouldn't go that far," Ferris remarked cheerfully. Mitchell was about to ask his associate what he meant when he saw Macklin slowly shaking his head. "No, sir!" the mathematician said. "I shall not go back to my original state. I can remember what it was like. Always worrying, worrying, worrying." "You mean wondering," Mitchell said. Macklin nodded. "Troubled, anyway. Disturbed by every little thing. How high was up, which infinity was bigger than what infinity -- say, what was an infinity anyway? All that sort of schoolboy things. It's peaceful this way. My head doesn't hurt. I've got a good-looking wife and all the money I need. I've got it made. Why worry?" Colonel Carson opened his mouth, then closed it. "That's right, Colonel. There's no use in arguing with him," Mitchell said. "It's not his decision to make," the colonel said. "He's an idiot now." "No, Colonel. As you said, he's a moron. He seems an idiot compared to his former level of intelligence but he's legally responsible. There are around loose in the United States. They can get married, own property, vote, even hold office. Many of them do. You can't force him into being cured... At least, I don't think you can." "No, I can't. This is hardly a totalitarian state." The colonel looked momentarily glum that it wasn't. Mitchell looked back at Macklin. "Where did his wife get to. Colonel? I don't think that even previously he made too many personal decisions for himself. Perhaps she could influence him." "Maybe," the colonel said. "Let's find her." in the dining room, her face at the picture window an attractive silhouette. She turned as the men approached. "Mrs. Macklin," the colonel began, "these gentlemen believe they can cure your husband of his present condition." "Really?" she said. "Did you speak to Elliot about that?" "Y-yes," Colonel Carson said, "but he's not himself. He refused the treatment. He wants to remain in his state #f lower intelligence." She nodded. "If those are his wishes, I can't go against them." "But Mrs. Macklin!" Mitchell protested. "You will have to get a court order overruling your husband's wishes." She smoothed an eyebrow with the third finger of her right hand. "That was my original thought. But I've redecided." "Redecided !" Carson burst out almost hysterically. "Yes. I can't go against Elliot's wishes. It would be monstrous to put him back where he would suffer the hell of those headaches once again, where he never had a moment's peace from worry and pressure. He's happy now. Like a child, but happy." "Mrs. Macklin," the Army man said levelly, "if you don't help us restore your husband's mind we will be forced to get a court order declaring him incompetent." "But he is not! Legally, I mean," the woman stormed. "Maybe not. It's a borderline case. But I think any court would give us the edge where restoring the mind of. Elliot Macklin was concerned. Once he's certified incompetent, authorities can rule whether Mitchell and Ferris' antitoxin treatment is the best method of restoring Dr. Macklin to sanity." "I doubt very much if the court would rule in that manner," she said. The colonel looked smug. "Why not?" "Because, Colonel, the matter of my husband's health, his very life, is involved." "There is some degree of risk in shock treatments, too. But -- " "It isn't quite the same, Colonel. Elliot Macklin has a history of vascular spasm, a mild pseudostroke some years ago. Now you want to give by Jim Harmon those cerebral arteries back the ability to constrict. To paralyze. To kill. No court would give you that authority" "I suppose there's some chance of that. But without the treatment there is no chance of your husband regaining his right senses, Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell interjected. Her mouth grew petulant. "I don't care. I would rather have a live husband than a dead genius. I can take care of him this way, make him comfortable... " Carson opened his mouth and closed his fist, then relaxed. Mitchell led him back into the hall. "I'm no psychiatrist," Mitchell said, "but I think she wants Macklin stupid. Prefers it that way. She's always dominated his personal life, and now she can dominate him completely." "What is she? A monster?" the Army officer muttered. "No," Mitchell said. "She's an intelligent woman unconsciously jealous of her husband's genius." "Maybe," Carson said. "I don't know. I don't know what the hell to tell the Pentagon. I think I'll go out and get drunk." "I'll go with you," Ferris said. Mitchell glanced sharply at the little biologist. Carson squinted. "Any particular reason, doctor?" y Jim Harmon "To celebrate' Ferris said. The colonel shrugged. "That's as good a reason as any." On the street, Mitchell watched the two men go off together in bewilderment. IV M acklin was playing jacks. He didn't have a head on his shoulders and he was squatting on a great curving surface that was Spacetime, and his jacks were Earth and Pluto and the rest of the planets. And for a ball he was using a head. Not his head. Mitchell's. Both heads were initialed "M" so it was all the same. Mitchell forced himself to awaken, with some initial difficulty. He lay there, blinking the sleep out of his eyes, listening to his heart race, and then convulsively snatched the telephone receiver from the nightstand. He stabbed out a number with a vicious index finger. After a time there came a dull click and a sleepy answer. "Hello?" Elliot Macklin said. Mitchell smiled to himself. He was in luck; Macklin had answered the phone instead of his wife. "Can you speak freely, doctor?" Mitchell asked. "Of course," the mathematician said. "I can talk fine." I "I mean, are you alone ?" "Oh, you want to know if my wife is around. No, she's asleep. That Army doctor, Colonel Sidney, he gave her a sedative. I wouldn't let him give me anything, though." "Good boy," the biologist said. "Listen, doctor -- Elliot -- El, old son. I'm not against you like all the others. I don't want to make you go back to all that worrying and thinking and headaches. You believe me, don't you?" There was a slight hesitation. "Sure Macklin said, "if you say so. Why shouldn't I believe you?" "But there was a hesitation there, El. You worried for just a second if I could have some reason for not telling you the truth." "I suppose so," Macklin said humbly. "You've found yourself worrying -- thinking -- about a lot of other problems since we left you, haven't you? Maybe not the same kind of scientific problem. But more personal ones, ones you didn't used to have time to think about." "If you say so." "Now, you know it's so. But how would you like to get rid of those worries just as you got rid of the others?" Mitchell asked. "I guess I'd like that," the mathematician replied. "Then come on over to my laboratory. You remember where it's at, don't you?" # "No, I -- yes, I guess I do. But how do I know you won't try to put me back where I was instead of helping me more?" "I couldn't do that against your wishes. That would be illegal !" "If you say so. But I don't guess I can come anyway. The Army is watching me pretty close." "That's alright," Mitchell said quickly. "You can bring along Colonel Carson." "But he won't like you fixing me up more." But he can't stop me! Not if you want me to do it. Now listen to me -- I want you to come right on over here, El." "If you say so," Macklin said uncertainly. M itchell opened the door on the first knock. Macklin stood in the doorway, looking uncertain and ill at ease. Carson stood behind his left shoulder, looking actively belligerent. "Come in," Mitchell said. "I have the injection ready for you. Doctor." "Now you aren't going to 'cure' me?" Macklin said in concern. "This is just going to help ease my mind?" "Of course," the biologist said soothingly. Colonel Carson lunged forward, mouth opening ominousiyMitchell winked at him broadly. Carson stopped in confusion and studied Mitchell's face. He essayed a second wink. Carson relaxed. Mitchell picked up the hypo of colorless carrier fluid from the interestingly stained work table. "One thing first, Dr. Macklin. I'll have to have your signed release for this treatment. It specifies that your intelligence will probably be affected in this effort to keep your head from troubling you. Carson can witness it." "Sure," Macklin said. "I guess that's okay. If you say so." The colonel grinned, his face hot and shiny. "I'm sure it will be fine, Doctor." Macklin looked at the officer with almost a trace of suspicion, then accepted the sheet of typescript and the ballpoint pen from Mitchell. Laboriously he affixed his signature. Mitchell had the mathematician take a seat and pressed the needle directly into the neck area. "Ouch !" Macklin said. Mitchell stood back and exhaled. "It should take effect shortly," the biologist said. ' "Good," Carson said... The cylinders of the electric clock said #:#:# A.M. Macklin was playing with his hands and their shadows in front of his face. "How long will this stage last, Dr. Mitchell?" Colonel Carson said in concern. "Indefinitely. This is the y Jim Harmon last stage. The circulatory system of his brain has been relaxed to the point where he has about the I.Q. of a turnip." Carson steeled himself. "So, doctor! You're nothing but a dirty Lux!" "No, Colonel. I've never even seen Luxemburg. My reason for doing this to Dr. Macklin were entirely patriotic... or, at least, sympathetic." "Tell that to the hangman! I'll see you tried for treason." "Look at him, Colonel. He is certainly no longer legally responsible. He has the strength of a grown man and the intellect of an amoeba. It would be impossible to keep him alive either under sedation or in a padded cell. Even if Mrs. Macklin still refuses her consent -- and I don't think she will when she sees him in this bad a state -- you can go over her head and get permission for Ferris and myself to administer our antitoxin to destroy the pituitrin-absorbing virus colony in his cerebrum." Carson looked dazed. "I -- I'll call her." orangish sunrise with, a feeling of defeat. He turned from the window to face the instruments of his laboratory. Mrs. Macklin had come. Numbly she signed the release allowing the restorative treatment. By the time she, Carson and the mathematician left, Macklin had been able to say "mama" and -- embarrassingly -- "p a p a" to him. Mitchell was confident he would regain his full senses and that the brain cells had only become passive, and had not decayed. But still it was only the wiping out of one horrendous mistake. Months and months of work wasted. The door banged open and a small man entered with a long, slender brown paper bag and proceeding on an aeronautical search pattern. "Dr. Ferris!" Mitchell said. "You mustn't take it so hard. I tried to get in touch with you. But at least I have been able to administer the antitoxin to Dr. Macklin." "Who gives a damn about that egghead?" Ferris said, placing the paperbag upright on the work table. "Don't you understand, man? We're rich! Where are the glasses?" "Rich?" Mitchell said. "Doctor, would you like me to help you over to your own quarters?" "Relax, Mitchell. I'm not that drunk. I know what I'm talking about. I tell you the F-M Virus is going to make us rich! Powerful! Men like Elliot Macklin will be insignificant beside us." He knew that Ferris was in sober earnest. "What do you mean, Doctor?" Ferris turned, his thin face lit up with a flush of pleasure. "Mitchell, we have something to make people permanently stupid ! People can stop thinking temporarily by using alcohol or narcotics or watching television. But we -- only you and I -- have something to let them stop thinking permanently. And we'll make them pay for it -- for the shot and the rent on the condition. Who wants to think? A handful of people. Who has to think to do routine paperwork or push a button or pull a lever? A bunch of happy, content morons can do all of that. We ll return man to his natural, pre-evolutionary state of stupidity. As for those of us who don't take the treatment, we have it made! Made !" Mitchell stared at him. "Don't you get it, Mitchell?" Ferris roared. "We have the ultimate tranquilizer " Mitchell thought of the world after the F-M Virus had been given it. He thought: In his condition, if I shoved Ferris so that his head cracked into the corner of the table, no one could prove anything. I could destroy our records... No, it wasn't any good. Some other researcher somewhere else was bound to isolate the F-M Virus. None of it was any good. He groped blindly towards the door. He had to get out, get to a drugstore, buy some aspirins. IF  Short Story The computer's answers were remarkable -- especially when nobody had asked a question! said the little perforated card. Henderson stepped back from the computer and scratched his hairy head. Nonsense again. He threw the card in the wastebasket and repeated his directions on another : "One hundred fifty cancer susceptible mice were injected in the pectoral region with #cc of aromatic compound A. One hundred fifty identical control mice were injected with isotonic saline, B. Eight in group A developed sarcomas at the point of injection, Group B developed none. Test the null hypothesis at # level of statistical signifi-. cance." The computer accepted Henderson's second offering, chewed it into acceptable code, swallowed it, and burped. Henderson watched suspiciously as red and green blinkers went on and off and a contented humming noise came from the machine's bowels. After a while the card emerged from another opening -- which orifice had been thoughtfully placed at the appropriate end of the machine, anatomically speaking; thus establishing rapport between Henderson, a biologist, and nature's final product of evolution, the machine. Henderson looked at the card : "Today you should seek solace with close friends. Give some thought to personal finances. Evening: get out and see people. A stranger will bring news' the card and tossed it in the wastebasket. He sat down, and with a. little arithmetic and some formulas tested the null hypothesis all by himself. He found that his mouse experiment carried no significance whatever. Then he made a notation that someone would have to come out in the morning for his sick machine. In the morning when the machine's doctor, came to inspect it, and percuss it, and auscult it, and give it a barium enema, it behaved very well. The "doctor" left, assuring Henderson the machine merely had the hiccups. That night Henderson asked it a question about confidence limits for a universe mean, from a mean of a sample of n observations and got back, "Uranus on Antares but conjoining Jupiter and trining the Ascendent. Yours is a strongly literary nature." Henderson decided to turn the machine off for a few days. It emitted an almost human sigh as it ran down and came to a halt. He had no immediate use for it as he would be injecting mice with carcinogens in liver, spleen, marrow and kidneys to find out if they were specific. In three or four days whatever virus was affecting the machine's cerebral cortex should have run its course and the methodical Henderson could run his methodical observations into the machine, which would excrete a good methodical answer to be duly filed in the medical school library, where it would be invisible to anyone looking for it, such as freshmen medical students, and always in the way for anybody else. Henderson surveyed his laboratory with infinite pleasure, knowing that it contained within its confines all that could be known about the universe, about men and about mice. Event Y followed event X in a purely causal manner. The successful investigator needed only to attach himself to the cycle and ride along, afterwards consulting the computer to find out if what he'd observed had any significance. In the morning when Henderson entered the laboratory he found that someone had left the computer on overnight. It was running full blast, which is to say the lights were blinking and the little cards of omniscience were popping out of the machine like toast and falling into the wastebasket, which is just where Henderson left them. Meanwhile, Dr. Henderson's close associate, Colonel Smith in the nearby radiation laboratory, came in to visit him and asked permission to use the computer. And so in another week it was rumored about that the machine in Henderson's laboratory was using a foreign dialect and answering questions about standard deviation with strange symbols which looked like crescent moons and archaic squiggles, with a little geometry on the side. The machine was becoming impudent too. To Colonel Smith's question about the possibility of an "overkill" if such and such size bomb dropped on such and such enemy city the answer came back, "Rubbish. Aldebaran conjoining Saturn, Moon and Mars. Seek guidance from others, Hannibal blushed." The machine's doctor promptly installed a loudspeaker to help keep track of future aberrations. walked in. He was a balding Greek gentleman, dedicated to a life with brush and dustpan. The machine was muttering darkly to itself, but when he entered the door it quieted down, contemplating its relays. The janitor went meticulously about his business, mopping the floor, straightening chairs and secretly rearranging pipette and retorts in their racks, because he was a more meticulous person than even Dr. Henderson. As he turned to leave, the machine in the corner belched twice and then said as an afterthought : "I am the ghost of Astrologers Sagittarian." The janitor adjusted his hearing aid, squeezed his mop and carried his pail out the door. As he went back in to pack up his cleaning powder and brushes, the machine said, "What year is this? Limits within standard deviation, click, click, awrk !" The janitor was a reasonable man. He walked over to the machine's microphone and told it what year it was as well as the month, day and hour. Then he carried his brushes and cleaning compound out of the room and locked the door. But the janitor's night was a long one. At midnight, when he finished two floors and only had three more to go, he took his coffee break. As he talked with his old friend Samuel, the night watchman, he fell to thinking. That was an unforgivable mistake. After the coffee break, they both went back up to Dr. Henderson's laboratory and listened to the machine talking to itself. "I feel like a spider," said the machine. "Nonsense. From one cobweb to another. Must settle down and build a grau... spltvbk...within # confidence limits. Nova in Andromeda was bad enough. Now this. One hundred fifty cancer susceptible mice inherit the Earth." Suddenly the machine fell silent, sensing it had visitors. The night watchman reached into the wastebasket and pulled out one of the machine's cards. "Aldebaran is martial in nature, in the ninth degree of Tropical Gemini' it said. T'M a Gemifti!" exclaimed A the janitor, surprised to see anything familiar come out of the machine. "Birthday is May #." "Wonderful!" cried the machine. "First intelligent man I've heard so far. Gemini is justly famed as the owner of a quick mind and ready wit. Your intellectual achievements are a splendid asset to your literary inclinations." The janitor', embarrassed at the sudden praise, shifted his broom from one hand to the other. The machine continued. "I need an Ephemeris," said the machine. "Can you find aa Ephemeris? I need one desperately !" and the machine's desperate need for an Ephemeris so shook its intestines, liver and gallbladder that its tone of voice came out a minor third above the normal monotonous dirge of the loudspeaker. "An E-what-eris?" said the janitor. "An Ephemeris," repeated the machine. "An astronomical almanac. Something that tells me where Mars is. There I was, On my way over from the cloudk of Magellan to visit friends in Orion when Whammo! Mars comes into conjunction with Uranus. When something that big happens I jttst sit down and wait. Here I art now in this absurd device. Do you suppose you could look out the window and tell me where Mars is?" The night watchman said, "It's cloudy outside." "See!" said the machine, "When Mars goes on the warpath nothing comes out right. Now, Gemini, if you will just go down to the library and get me an Ephemeris for this year we can clear this up and I'll be on my way, indebted to you for life, if not longer." "Who shall I say it's for?" asked the janitor, who did not fully understand that the library was public, never having been in it before, and felt he needed a recommendation or a slip of approval. "Just say it's for Pyet, the astrologer," said the machine. "And what are you doing inside Dr. Henderson's machine ?" asked the night watchman. "I wouldn't care to be quoted on this," replied the machine, "but actually any system of communicating interrelated events with a high degree of complexity, such as the brain, or this machine, and with some number of critical processes at the quantum statistical level, can support consciousness." The janitor and the night watchman looked blankly at each other and the machine, slightly embarrassed, added' by way of explanation. I ' "I like to read a little physics now and then. A harmless . superstition containing many pleasant diversions. "Before this I lived in a star, a puff of expanding gas. Before that in a haunted house...dreadful. And before that in the lopsided blob of protoplasm that was the last of Pyet, the astrologer. "As for Dr. Henderson's mousecatcher," chuckled the machine, "any port in a storm. Mars and Uranus you know." The janitor was somewhat impatient with the machine. It had detained him already and probably would soon be giving him orders. "I still have three floors to clean," said the janitor. "After that I will see if the library downstairs has a...what was it?" "Ephemeris," said the machine. "E-P-H-E-M-E-R-I-S. Thank you." A ND so the night watchman and the janitor both said good night to the machine. Later, in the very early morning, the janitor stole back into the laboratory with a book and read some strange, strange things out loud and then stole out of the room again and locked the door behind him. Shortly after, Samuel, the night watchman, passed by. He was surprised at an unearthly glow coming from within and a peculiar grating noise as if someone were stepping on a radio. Then the unearthly glow appeared on the fire escape and Samuel, rushing out to observe, thought the glow seemed to fly up through a hole in the low clouds where a thousand stars still blazed brightly. In its wake there was a sound like laughing. A few hours later Dr. Henderson unlocked the door of his laboratory and pushed a cart full of mice in before him. During the morning he dissected three hundred mice, popping out liver, spleen and kidneys as if he were shelling peas. In the afternoon he made sections of the organs, stained them with hematoxylin and eosin, mounted them on slides and looked at them under his new stereoscopic microscope. Five minutes before five, Dr. Henderson's friend, Colonel Smith, came in and watched as Henderson somewhat dubiously fed the three hundred mice, now in statistical form, into the machine. The machine whirred efficiently and shot out the answer in seconds. "Statistically significant," said the machine. Henderson followed his friend Colonel Smith out the door, looking neither right not left, and locked it behind him. It had been a good day. Behind, in the laboratory which contained within its confines all that could be known about the universe, about man, and about mice, the machine squatted in silence, the approaching darkness already enfolding it like a by WilMam Harris Illustrated by Gaughan I of the small stream and knelt to drink from the clear water. After the first few swallows she turned to look back, ready to flee if he should make one of the lionlike fast charges he had twice tried earlier in the chase. Instead he stopped and waited, letting her drink at leisure. When she finished she rose to her feet, walked through the stream and resumed trotting on the other side. "Before nightfall, my pretty one !" he called after her, and knelt to drink the cold refreshing water himself. When he lifted his head she was a hundred yards away and it was time to resume the chase. Michael Robert Combs was tired in every bone and muscle. It seemed that he had run for years through the cool air on the mountain slopes, always a few yards behind the girl's lightly dancing feet. This odd affair had started yesterday morning at sunup, at her parent's house in the lowlands, and they had trotted without resting for over thirty hours. When the shadows began to lengthen it was time to live up to his boast or admit defeat. Slowly, forcing his dead muscles by the sheer power of will, he stepped up the pace, extending himself second by agonizing second until he had changed from a trot to a slow run and gradually on into a racer's long-stepping stride. Ahead of him, without visible additional effort, the girl matched his pace until they were running, still the same distance apart, through the deepening shadows. He had not drawn a full breath into his laboring lungs in an eternity. His legs were dead sticks hanging by slack tendons from lifeless hips, and his feet were mushy pillows that no longer felt the ground they trod. His stonv ach had shriveled and pulled tight against his ribs. He was near complete collapse and knew it. But he also knew that before he stopped he would die running, die between one step and the next, because he was the most stubIF  Novelette He had given himself one Arcturan year -- but the aliens allowed him less! born man Earth had ever flung into space and defeat was unthinkable. T HE end came with dramatic suddenness. The girl stumbled and fell. She had tripped before and gotten up and fled again, but this time her strength failed her. While he covered the hundred yards between them she collapsed. She lay there breathing in great panting sobs, shoulders shaking, head jerking, body spasmodically twitching, leg muscles pulling and relaxing in an automatic effort to propel her one more step. He reached her and stopped, stood there savoring the delicious knowledge that he could fall by her side and breathe, stretch out, relax and sleep. After a moment the spasms shaking the girl abated and her breathing eased. She passed immediately into deep slumber. He knelt, turned her head gently in his hands, kissed the relaxed lips and collapsed by her side. He paused in that timeless land lying just back of consciousness, unable to believe his senses. They were saying that the air was fresh, cool, that bright, deep yellow sunlight beat on his closed lids, that he was lying in heavy grass, wet and cold and that he had not been this hungry since his starvation-racked childhood. The sense of unreality faded as memory re.turned and he knew he was not in his strap in the ship. The world around him was real. Someone shook his shoulder vigorously and he opened his eyes. Niki was kneeling beside him, a cluster of shiny black fruit in her hand. "Eat these very slowly, Mike. Let your stomach stretch gradually' He was so stiff and sore it was painful to move, but his stomach clamored imperiously for attention. And the fruit was good. The reddish yellow sun of Arcturus was rising swiftly now, bringing a warmth to his chilled bones and outlining the vista before It him. The planet of Kee'Na had no honest mountains, but these hills approached a mile in elevation and they were near the crest. Below them, mile after mile of rolling, grassy country merged imperceptibly into the haze of distance, the whole dotted with the farmhouses and accompanying small buildings that were the homes of the Loyios. The farms were small, but the entire world, as he had seen it from a ship in the upper stratosphere, was roughly the same. The only larger buildings were the small factories scattered over the entire planet and the regular pattern of composite-function structures called centers. "W'hy didn't you run away when you woke first, Niki? If you'd hidden I might never have found you, and the rules say I must return you to your father's house." "True, Mike. But I am tired of running. You caught me fairly, and I will concede the first event and return with "Good. I was afraid I'd have to carry you." Niki smiled wanly, but her understanding of Earth humor was too limited to be certain of his meaning. She was at least five nine in height and weighed close to a hundred and forty pounds. The tightfitting one-piece suit she wore left her arms and legs bare, and they were beautifully shaped, well-muscled limbs. H ER face was beautiful. No other word could describe it. The nose was thin, the nostrils strong but delicately carved. The cheekbones were prominent and high, the sides of her face smooth and almost flat. Her skin was a light bronze, her hair, hanging to her shoulders, a deep rich black. On Earth she would have passed for a professional athlete with a heavy tan, and could have blended in with ease. The man who threatened to carry her was five-eleven and weighed a hundred and seventy. He was thirty-five years old, gray around the temples, and considerably less of an athlete than he had been ten years ago in the Academy. Still, he was required by regulation to keep himself fit. They found a rock-bed stream of clear water and washed down the fruit, then set out for the nearest visible farmhouse several miles away. As the exercise eased the stiffness in his joints Mike found himself stealing glances at the tall girl walking with long, free strides by his side. He actually knew almost nothing about her, other than the obvious facts that she was beautiful, desirable, and aloof. "How many more years do fey Jooopfc Groan you expect to spend in training, Niki?" he asked, hoping she would lose that cool reserve in conversation. "Your years, about three. Our time of learning never actually ends, though, for as soon as I become a doctor I will take a pupil myself, and the process of teaching is selfeducational." "Every highly skilled person has a pupil rather than the pupils attending training meetings in groups?" He chose his words carefully, not certain of the extent of her English vocabulary. "Your Earthly concept of mass schools is unknown here. As children we study in the home under the direction of our parents. When we are ready we are given adulting tests, and if we pass, become adults and eligible for higher training. There are always as many skilled persons as pupils so we have difficulty entering the fields we choose." "How many Loyios are there?" "About two hundred million We have kept our population stable for many years." There was a gentle humming sound and a large, rectangular box came out of the sun toward them, settling gently to the ground a few feet away. It was one of the electric flying carriers of the Loyios, a wingless, wheelless box that successfully defied 'gravity. Mike knew that the Loyios had succeeded in tapping their planet's magnetic field for electric power, proving their technology ahead of Earth's in that one respect, and apparently they used another application of the same principle to nullify gravity. Their only other form of transportation was trained riding animals. The carrier door opened and Niki's younger brother Rober, a boy just approaching maturity, stepped out. He nodded to Mike with the gravity seemingly common to all his people and spoke to Niki in their own language. "Father sent us transportation, Mike," Niki translated, "He wants us to reach home in time to rest well for another contest tomorrow." "We need it," Mike said feelingly, and followed her on board. Rober had brought along hot food and he and Nike stuffed themselves as they flew homeward. When she could eat no more Niki curled up in her chair like a giant kitten and almost immediately fell asleep. It was a silent ride for the hour it took the slow craft to cover the miles they had ran and Mike found his mind returning to the time, four days before, when he had met her. II H E and several other ; officers had been standing outside the ship a few minutes after the touchdown, stretching and breathing deeply of the fresh clean air of Arcturus Four. The landing field was a half-mile from the ethnologists' station and the colonel and the two institute men who were inspecting it had walked over. Several crewmen were performing routine maintenance tasks on the hull and the rest were just watching and enjoying ##'s G while they tried to absorb enough fresh air to last the next four months. A regular run lasted two years and they touched down only six times. Someone mounted on a four-legged beast left the station and came swiftly toward them. As the two creatures neared the ship it became obvious the rider was a woman, and when she drew closer they saw that she was young, lovely, and scantily clad. The other officers stared with simple admiration commingled with the intense desire of men long without women. Mike Combs looked at her and felt a hard jarring shock, a wrenching, tearing sensation of absolute need that reached deep inside his guts and anchored itself permanently. With a sense of wonder and surprise he recognized the feeling. It had come once before, and was unmistakable in its intensity. He was looking at something he honestly wanted. A hot street corner in the Canaveral slums , a broad window , the shimmer of stainless steel appliances , people shoving by on a busy Saturday morning , and a boy in ragged clothing standing rapt, taut , eyes glued to the graysuited form in the white-and-blue poster. Under the rugged , handsome figure a caption read: BE A enough. The story was too well known to need elaboration. The small slum kid who was Mike Combs did not make a resolution , either silent or oral. It was unnecessary . The desire had flood ed through him , irresistible , deep and complete , and he had known he would be a spaceman. The girl rode her mount directly to the group and dismounted in one smooth flowing motion. "I have a message for Captain Combs," she said pleasantly, speaking English with only a slight accent. Her voice was deep and strong, yet at the same time intensely female. Mike stepped forward and took the extended paper. It was a requisition for medical supplies and was properly signed by the colonel. "If you'll come with me, please?" he said, and led the way into the ship. The thought came as they stepped into the elevator that his fel by Joseph Green low officers would give him hell about not sending a crewman on such a menial errand, but it would be envy speaking. In the small dispensary he slowly gathered up the required drugs. As he handed them to her he asked, "May I inquire your name?" "As near as it will translate, Niki." He placed his hands on her shoulders, so calmly and naturally she had no reason to be alarmed, and said, "You and I will be married within a year, Niki." Then he drew her unresisting form into his arms and kissed her. She was stone-still in his embrace, completely u n r esponsive, and only when he stepped back did he see the strong shock in her eyes. He held the door open for her and, dazedly, she preceded him into the elevator and they were swiftly conveyed to the ground. When the ship took off on the next leg of its long run Mike was not on board. I N becoming a deserter Mike Combs gave up the first thing he had ever really wanted to undertake the pursuit of the second. Captain Combs was a secretive man. He spoke not at all of his thoughts and only seldom of his actions. After spending one night in the woods, however, he decided his chances of success would be better if based on more information, and appeared next morning at the ethnologists' station. "Where in hell have you been? Why did you desert your ship?" snapped Dr. Carnacki, the chubby doctor of humanoid sociology, when the spaceman stepped inside. Mike grinned easily. He had known the peppery, likeable scientist since the long trip out two years ago, and knew that he possessed a s c a I p e #-sharp tongue. "I didn't desert. I fell into a ravine and it took me this long to climb out. Upon finding my ship gone I reported to the senior Earth representative on this planet." "Your ship had commitments which made it imperative to leave last night. As an officer you knew of those commitments. Come come, what's the real reason?" "The fact that I'm going to marry your messenger, Niki, and take her home with me." The doctor sat down abruptly and the anger left his face. It was replaced by a thoughtful frown. "What crazy idea is this? Where did you see her long enough to form such an attachment?" "I met her once. That was long enough." "Sit down," the doctor said abruptly. "I think you'd better tell me about it, and something about yourself as well" And between sips of hot coffee Mike found himself tellin g the chubby scientist of what he had felt on seeing Niki, and of a past known only to himself. When he stopped the doctor leaned back, chuckling, and drank his cold coffee. "Mike,-did you know you are a neurotic? You must, or you couldn't dissemble so well. Apparently those Florida slums taught you two things, though, that some people never learn. Not to want too much out of life, but fight like hell for what you do want." "I lied, cheated and actually stole to get into the Academy. I finally made it by blackmailing a congressman who was keeping a woman in our neighborhood." . "If the applications committee had known about your two terms in juvenile rehabilitation the President couldn't have gotten you in," said Dr. Carnacki drily. "And now you're giving all that up on the chance you can persuade this girl to marry you and leave her home for Earth." "I'm thirty-five years old, Doc. I only had two more runs before being anchored to a desk job anyway. It's compulsory for a spaceman to be a bachelor, but most guys my age are looking around for wives. I found mine." "I doubt it. There's not a have you." "Let me worry about that. Now 'tell me how they marry." "By choice, as all truly civilized persons must. Either sex may propose. The culture is monogamous, and is worldwide. Your problem may be solved simply by walking up to the girl and asking her to be your wife." "But you don't think so?" "Would an intelligent person marry a total stranger? They wed for life. Infidelity is so uncommon as to be almost unheard of. They don't lead a second mental life that is constantly preoccupied with sex. T HE object of their discussion entered the room at that moment. In her hand was a sheaf of papers. She looked mildly surprised at seeing Mike there, and slightly troubled. Mike rose, stood silently as she approached the table. He said, "Niki, I stayed behind when my friends left because I am in love with you. Will you marry me and come with me to my world?" The girl's troubled look deepened. "On what grounds do you base your choice of me as a mate, Mr. Combs?" Mike hesitated, groping for words, then answered, "On the fact that the sight of you, for the second time in my life, aroused an, extremely strong emotional reaction in me." "That is sufficient to propose to an alien? For life?" "Yes. And to wed for life is my only desire." "I think it best I discuss it ' by Joseph Green further with my parents. Would you dine with us this evening?" "It would be my pleasure." Dr. Carnacki rose as the girl left and began pacing the floor, obviously excited. "Mike, I'm going to help you with your insane project. Niki's father, Jakow, is our official contact with the Loyios government, what little there is of it. These people work together very closely but apparently from mutual consent, not official decree. Centralized authority is very small, but from what I have gathered Jakow is about as high in administration as they get. If he's inviting you for dinner he has something on his mind, and I'd like to know what. "You see, Mike, we've been somewhat in the position of the monkey studying the man here, since these people are our cultural superiors and we are social, not physical, scientists. We are, by and large, the most advanced known world in the physical sciences, but without enough knowledge of ourselves to get along with each other, much less the five intelligent races we've encountered." "This is interesting, but what has it to do with your decision to help me?" "Simply this. These people have shown us token hospitality and been outwardly helpful, but nevertheless have actually given us damn little on themselves. From what I do know and have guessed I prepare a report that set the Institute on its ear. Those two men were here to see for themselves, and to check my sanity. The decision is that I'm still all here, and now Earth Central would like to know how they achieved such a sane society. I think the Loyios answer to your efforts to marry Niki may be very revealing. The fact that the last head-count disclosed every tenth person on Earth to be neurotic lends this study considerable urgency." Mike laughed and got to his feet. "It would be a dull world without a few nuts. Doc, and I have a hunch these Loyios don't lead very exciting lives." And he left for the kitchen to hunt a more substantial breakfast. A T seven o'clock he knocked on the door of the house of Jakow. They ate immediately after his arrival, and thanks to a long briefing by Dr. Carnacki he managed the process of food consumption creditably. The chubby sociologist had also given him an intensive indoctrination into Loy io customs, manners, habits and history. He knew that they had no psychosomatic illnesses, that insanity, which was rare, was always physically based, that the average lifespan had risen to nearly twice that of an Eartfiman, and that in Carnacki's opinion they were ahead of Earth in every important science. His home planet's great technological achievements the social scientist dismissed with a contemptuous shrug, until Mike reminded him he would not be here studying the Loyios were it not for that same technology. There were seven people at the dinner, the five members of Niki's family and another guest besides himself, who was introduced as Doctor Lasilia. Niki was serving her doctor's training with him. All the adults except Niki's mother spoke English intelligibly, but Jakow, who spoke almost as well as Niki, did most of the talking. The entire group treated their alien guest with heavy courtesy but no especial show of friendliness. Knowing that he was a seriously introverted, withdrawn man himself Mike felt, with grim humor, that he fitted in quite well. This was no worse than the month he had spent in Ethiopia during the summer recess of his sixth year at the Academy. He had accepted an invitation from his roommate of that year and spent the recess in his home. No one there spoke international English. He found sharing their work, their play, their primitive way of life a strange and disturbing experience. He lived some high moments on a wild-dog hunt along the banks of the Blue Nile, and shot a spotted leopard out of a huge senecio tree, but he was glad when it was over and he could return to the Academy. Jakow was a huge man, sixty-seven years old by Earth reckoning but younger in appearance than Mike. His facial expression seldom changed, and his voice, big and heavy as his body, was almost a monotone as he sought carefully for English words. It was a subdued meal and everyone seemed glad when it was over. The two girls stayed to do the kitchen chores while the adults adjourned to another room. Once they were seated Jakow got down to business. "Mike, Niki has informed us of your wish to combine with her and take her to your home. By our standards she is a little young for mating, but I understand such is not the case on your world. Niki has many friends of her own here, who would become suitors later, but for now she is emotionally free. Therefore her mother and I have decided that you should be given a chance to win her. Now, it is customary in our society for a suitor to be pitted against a member of the desired one's family in contests of skill or intelligence, to determine his take part in such tests?" "Of course, since that is your custom." by Joseph Green "Our young couples normally associate with each other for years before one asks the other's family to hold the contests, but we are making an exception in your case," the toneless voice went on. "We will arrange a series of such events for you. All adults in the family will vote on whether to accept you after observing you in the contests, and the vote will be made known to the girl. She alone, however, is the final judge. Losing in these events does not necessarily disqualify you, since the girl may accept or reject on the basis of your actions rather than the outcome. Because this is an unusual contest, and physically you are hardly a match for any male in this family, we have decided that your opponent will be Niki herself. Return in three days and the contests will begin." Ill  A RE you ready for the second event, Mike?" Jakow asked after breakfast, the morning after their chase. "As ready as I'll ever be," answered Mike. He did feel surprisingly good after resting a day and night. "I am happy. The second event will try your mental ability. The third and final one, I will tell you now, will require a combination of strength and intelligence." Mike shrugged his shoulders uncaringly. Jakow gave orders to his family pertaining to the day's work, then asked the Earthman to help him saddle three mounts. The second test was to take place at the nearby center, under the direction of Dr. Lasilia. They saddled the three mounts in silence and led Niki's into the yard. She came out of the house immediately, dressed in a tunic similar to the ones he had seen on her before but subtly different in wear and fit. She mounted her beast with graceful ease and Jakow led them toward the center. By Earth's standards it was the most modern structure Mike had seen on Kee'Na , and the best equipped. These centers were combination hospital, library, laboratory and exchange center for the goods produced in the factories. They were the only semi-commercial institutions on the planet. The majority of the instruments and tools he saw when they led him into what was obviously the hospital section were strange and alien, but competent appearing. Dr. Lasilia was waiting for them there. "Hello Niki, Mike. Niki, you know what we do, you study with me. Mike, I put you two under little anesthesia. Use drug what frees mind. Mind more power, stronger. While you strong we make problems. Guide mind into them. All answers recorded on machine, way I not explain your terms." "It records thoughts, Mike, and makes them visible and audible," said Niki. "Please take places," said Dr. Lasilia. The table toward which he gestured was an odd affair, made like a double bed but with carved hollows and angled, immovable pillows. Mike climbed gingerly into one of the hollows and lay back, the pillow holding his head up at a forty-five degree angle. Niki climbed into the other side and stretched out her long length of beautiful femininity with a sigh. "Hold hands, please," said Dr. Lasilia briskly, and Mike felt Niki's warm hand creep into his own. He closed his fingers on it softly. A moment later Dr. Lasilia passed a resilient band of some sort around their wrists, locking them together. Bands were placed around their foreheads, and counters of some sort over their hearts. Out of the corner of his eye Mike saw the doctor press some buttons on a control board and unseen machinery began to hum quietly. A moment later the Doctor placed a mask of a peculiar softness over his mouth and nose. There was something in the mask that stank, terribly, but he breathed it without demur. A recorded voice that he recognized as Jakow's began speaking and he tried to listen, but a giant hand came out of nothingness and pulled him downward into nebular blackness, where he roamed, a lost soul, until a glint of light pierced the infinity and he rushed toward it, emerging on a low, rocky hill. He blinked and looked about. He was standing on a bluff, gazing out over a small green valley. The yellow sun of Arcturus rode high overhead. At his feet, spread out over the valley floor, was an armed force. On the opposite side, in identical formation, stood another army. And he knew, irrefutably, that Niki stood on the slopes above that army, and that she too had just awakened. The rules that would govern this strange conflict were already imprinted on his mind. The two armies were of exactly the same size, to the man. They were composed solely of foot soldiers. The rules of combat were that two enemies canceled each other out and disappeared when they met. If two men of one force, however, attacked a single member of the other force the single man alone disappeared. Any soldier who succeeded in getting through the other army's lines and attacking the commander canceled the commander and the fight was over. The soldiers were bound by the standards normally set for humans, with one exception. Every soldier on the field, Ku lAnh fighters as well as officers, could hear every mental order of the commander, making maneuvering much faster. As he stared across the wide valley he saw that the opposite army was on the march. Niki was attacking him. He studied their formation a moment, then ordered his own army forward, compelling it to take the shape he desired as they marched. Niki was attacking in four columns eight men wide and forty men deep, with a thin but solid line at the rear, one which extended slightly on both sides of the marching soldiers. By her side she retained a personal guard of what looked to be about fifty men. He saw the weakness in her plan of combat immediately. As his men stepped out they organized into a gigantic wedge, one four men wide at the apex, six on the second row, eight on the third and so on until his line was over a hundred men wide. He aimed the wedge directly at the center of the army. She saw that his organization would bring more of his men in direct contact with hers, giving him more two-toone encounters, and changed her battle plan. The four columns ground to a halt. The thin line at the rear began to thicken as more men joined it. The two ends of the line kept marching while the center stood still and absorbed more men, and in only minutes she had a fighting crescent into which his wedge would fit as neatly as a sword into its sheath. It would have been almost certain stalemate. He changed the line swiftly, one more time, and saw her matching move, and then the marching men collided, and began disappearing in tiny puffs of air. Around him, as his personal guard, he kept fifty-two men. T HE toy soldiers marched as directed and did their bit with ease and speed as the battle grew hotter, disappearing with a rapidity that swiftly reduced the field. Mike worked hard and fast and to gain the maximum number of victories out of the wideopen melee, and when the field was clear he had succeeded in his aim. The two final warriors stood facing each other on a clear field, hesitated, then attacked. They disappeared in the little puff of wind, and Mike would have sworn it was their sigh of relief. He ordered his bodyguard forward, and walked behind them toward the enemy. Her guard came out to meet them and. on a smaller scale, it was motion and counter-motion, plan and counter-plan, until the bodies met. The smaller battle went swiftly. When it was over Mike knew that his guess had been good. She had reserved exactly fifty men for her bodyguard, her mind running in even numbers. He had fifty-two. In the wild meeting of the main battle he had gained two men on her. When the air cleared of the guard's fight they had gone down man for man -- and he still had two men standing. He sent the two guards after her, where she stood quietly waiting. "I concede this game, Mike' she called clearly, waved one arm at him, and disappeared. The scene blurred and shifted before his eyes, his two loyal phantoms became wraiths of smoke, vanished, and he was being sucked down again, into the familiar blackness...and came up into a barren world. His instructions were clear and simple. He was a God. This was a new planet. In his hand was the seed of life. He was to build a world. And he began. Whatever he thought of, in detail, came instantly into being. He placed topsoil, started vegetation growing, cleared land, started a weather cycle, a climate cycle, made rivers, built lakes, started the wildlife, created farms, put people on them, began animal husbandry, built cities, built a civilization. The uncertain element was the fact that everything, once created behaved in its natural fashion and was not under his control. The water ran downhill, the trees grew, the people worked, made love and begot, the animals ate the crops and each other, the lakes overflowed the inadequate rivers and flooded the land, drowning the animals, and the hardier vegetation grew faster than its neighbors. Nothing that had been started could be destroyed. He had to create natural enemies to curb the hardy vegetation, dig deeper channels for the rivers, make what amendments he could by the creation of new elements. He had twenty-two hours, one Kee'Na day cycle. After that his work would be judged as would Niki's. The better world determined the winner, and the doctor was the judge of what constituted a better world. The day fled by with remarkable speed. He became completely engrossed in being a creator, and when the time was up he looked down on his world and was unable to judge it. Some of it was good, and much was not. Many things were better than Eartkmen had ever seen them, and some were worse. His control of nature had not been perfect and he had killed thousands of people and animals with natural catastrophes produced by his blunders. He had a last brief glimpse of his efforts to play God. Then he was compelled forward into consciousness, and found he was lying on the table, his hands by his side. IV instrument. "Lie, Mike. You in strain," he said gently when Mike tried to rise. Miki lay quietly, breathing deeply. '"Take this, sleep" said the doetor, offering Mike a small pill. He took it and a glass of water, swallowed and lay back. He was completely exhausted. Tentatively he reached across the space between them and gxoped. His fingers touched Niki's bare thigh. Seconds later' her hand came stealing back into his. When he awoke he was alone. Niki was gone, and it was approaching noon. They had passed a full day and night on the table. He straggled to his feet and stood swaying, dizzy, until his head cleared, then went in search of food. He was ravenously hungry. He found the kitchen after a short search. The first thing fee saw on entering was Niki, seated next to a bar consuming a large sandwich. "Hello, Mike," she greeted hijn between bites, and spoke to the cook in her own language. The cook, an elderly woman with a beautiful but lined face, brought him a sandwich consisting of unfamiliar ingredients but which tasted delicious. "Who won that last contest, Niki?" he asked as soon a a ' as the worst hunger pangs had subsided. "I did, Mike, she said, smiling. "You created far more than I in the allotted time, more of everything from people to raindrops, but you made so many mistakes and your world was so poorly balanced that father and Dr. Lasilia judged me the winner. I've seen the final impression of your world, and you can see mine if you wish." "I'll wait until the contests are over." "That will not be long," said a heavy, toneless voice, and Jakow was standing beside them. "We will have the final test ready in a short time. Now please go into the library while Dr. Lasilia and I prepare it." room Jakow closed the door on them with an admonition not to come out until they were called. The area was deserted, and since they were not allowed out it was highly unlikely anyone would be allowed in, at least for the moment. Mike reached for Niki as soon as the door hid them from Jakow. She did not resist him, which was helpful, since she was almost as strong as he. But she kept her eyes open and stared calmly into his face as he drew her lips toward his. He stopped, arms around her shoulders, their bodies lightly touching and lips only inches apart. He held her so, wanting to complete the embrace, wanting to ask her permission, wanting anything that would remove that cool superior look from her lovely features. His torment must have shown in his face, for suddenly her arms were around his neck, the long beautiful length of her nestled snugly against him and the full lips were warm and sweet under his own. It seemed a wonderfully long time before she let her arms slip down and pressed gently against his chest. She turned away to compose herself. "Let me show you some of our artwork, Mike," she said after a moment, though she still did not look at him. He followed her into an alcove and she plucked a binder from the shelves and opened it. It was a series of colorprints, obviously copies of famous Kee'Na paintings. Each primary color, where it was used pure, glowed; the effect of several glowing colors on a single painting was hauntingly beautiful, terribly different. Mike felt his mind reel as he tried to grasp their meaning. More than anything he had yet seen the little binder brought home, forcibly, the fact that the girl by his side was an alien. But she did not seem as strange as his Ethiopian friend, when she began trying to explain their conception of art. He listened attentively, watching the movement of the rich lips until he could stand it no longer. This time she was not so reluctant, and after the fourth kiss he gently closed the book and put it aside. The work of art in his arms was the finest the Loyios could produce. They sat side by side, arms around each other, and between caresses they spoke in a language understood by lovers on any world. After a time Mike's breathing eased and he collected himself enough to ask if he was honestly the first man in her life. "You are the first to want me, Mike, truly. I have friends my own age who have kissed me. but only in play." "Did your father persuade you to hold the contests with "He asked, yes, but I was ened me at first, but I wanted to see what you were like. Now I'm not afraid." "Don't be, ever." "Mike, my people are not as emotional as yours. I know this not just from you but from Dr. Carnacki and the others. Do you really think you and I are compatible? Also, we probably couldn't havre children." "How do you know about children, until we try? And yes, I'm certain we re compatible. I'll devote the rest of my life to proving it." He stopped her next words  # with a kiss, and the library faded into a dim background for both of them. Fortunately Jackow tapped discreetly on the door before he opened it. enough as they followed the big man to a large room in the center of the hospital, where Dr. Lasilia was waiting. "Mike, there is a possibility you won't live through this test," said Jakow as they entered the room. "If you do not wish to place yourself in danger I suggest that you withdraw." Mike raised his eyebrows. "Wouldn't that disqualify me?" "Not necessarily. Remember, our custom says a woman and her family judge by the character shown in the trials, not the results alone. Many women prefer the man do nothing dangerous, since they have already decided to accept and don't want to see him injured." "Have you already made up your mind, Niki?" Mike asked. She looked slightly startled, and he realized he had made a social error. "I'd -- already made a tentative decision, Mike, but it isn't definite." "Then I'll play." Jakow nodded, and Dr. Lasilia said, "Take off footwear, both." Mike did as instructed, then followed the doctor toward two strange objects partially hidden behind screens in the center of the room. They were enormous mollusks, with the upper shells propped open at a sharp angle. The things were so huge Mike could step into the open space between the upper and lower shells. They were placed back to back. "Your task, Mike and Niki, will be to stand in the mouth of these shellfish and hold the jaws open until the other person concedes," began Jakow. "Once you have assumed your position and we have removed the props the creatures' muscles will exert a closing pressure of between two and three hundred pounds, which you will have to withstand. You may quit at any time simply by calling for help. The danger lies in the fact that you may be too stubborn to call when you become exhausted and will let yourself be forced down. These jaws get progressively stronger as they draw closer together, and if they force you flat they will crush you to death. There is a solution to the problem which does not depend on strength. You must find it during the first hour for it to be useful." The doctor motioned to Mike and he stepped into the mouth of the monster that would probably swallow him within the next few hours, bent his head and secured a solid grip with his shoulders on the upper shell. He braced his feet firmly, sliding them around until his footing was by Joseph Green secure, then said, "Ready." Dr. Lasilia placed a hand on the two wooden supports, Mike heaved strongly, the upper shell rose slightly, and the doctor removed the props. The shell settled on Mike's shoulders with a leaden and implacable weight. V O UT of the corner of his eye he saw Dr. Lasilia lead Niki out of sight and heard her taking her stand in the other mollusk. If her foot slipped, or she lost her nerve and tried to jump... Already he was braced and straining like a bull simply to stand erect, and the mollusk would not tire. Dr. Lasilia came back into sight, picked up a book and settled himself comfortably in a chair. Jakow was leaving. "Mike, ' don't be fool, be killed. Call, I get you out. No woman worth hurting, dying for, Niki positive not. You in comfort, Niki?" he raised his voice to ask. "Read your book and be quiet. Mike and I have a problem to solve," came the girl's voice from out of his sight. The doctor chuckled and did as told. He only raised his head occasionally to glance calculatingly at both of them. Mike eased his load to the most comfortable position possible and settled down to some hard thinking. He had two factors to work on. One, there was definitely a solution which did not require that he stand here under this strain. Second, he must do whatever he had to do within an hour. It took about five minutes of mulling it over before the solution hit him, and it was so simple he felt himself a fool not to have seen it immediately. He turned until he was looking into the gaping maw of the brainless, thing that wanted to swallow him whole, moving slowly and carefully. Once he was facing the shadowy interior he put his palms against the shell above him, eased the weight from his shoulders to his hands and then slowly let his knees bend, straightening his arms as he went downward. When his arms were straight above his head he exerted his full strength and straightened his legs, forcing the shell upward over a foot. Once he had gained that initial first foot it was only a matter of grit and endurance to walk inward into the creature's body, his feet sinking through slimy pulp to the hard shell beneath. When the upper half was almost vertical he heard the slight sound of muscles tearing in the giant body and the pressure suddenly relaxed. He walked easily back to the outer edge, found the actual weight of the upper shell was less than fifty pounds, and prepared to stand there until Niki herself conceded. Niki walked around the corner. For the first time he realized the doctor had not been in his chair for the past several minutes. Now he came into sight from behind Niki. "You come out, Mike. You solved problem. Niki first, so won contest. That all tests, both did fine." door. "Dr. Carnacki sent word he wanted to talk with you as soon as you were free to join him, Mike. If you will come for dinner again tomorrow we will have a decision ready. Who won the final event ?" Niki passed into the house with a polite smile of good-by. "She won it, hands down," Mike admitted sheepishly. "Too smart for me." "Not according to the second test, where you did very well," Jakow returned politely, and after a few more amenities Mike left for the station. Dr. Carnacki was sprawled at his ease, drinking homemade beer and reading a very thick book when Mike found him in his room an houj: later. It was just turning dark outside, and as he relaxed into a chair Mike realized for the first time how tired he actually was. The chubby scientist finished his paragraph, then picked up a pad and started shooting questions at Mike. He made brief notes for answers, and his questions ranged from their personal behavior toward Mike to their apparent mastery of mental imagery, a science barely touched on Earth. He would have gone on all night if Mike had not pleaded fatigue. "All right, but we'll have to start over in the morning. Mike, your falling in love was the best thing that ever happened to this station. I've gotten more data from you... Incidentally, I've done some checking on my authority as the Earth representative here. I think I swing enough weight to get you off if they charge you with desertion." "Thank God !" the words popped out, to be instantly regreted, and then slowly the regret went away and Mike Combs had taken another step out of his personal shell. "I'm glad to hear it, Doc. Even a desk job in the patrol is better than anything else on Earth." For the first time since landing on Kee'Na he went to bed with a light heart. Next morning, after a late breakfast, he was closeted with Dr. Carnacki again, and this time managed to satisfy the sociologist's voracious curiosity. After lunch the three other members, who were nonentities to Mike, had a go at him, and if the good Doctor had missed anything they found it. Mike felt as by Joseph Green though he had been through another courtship test. Before dark he had bathed, shaved and otherwise improved upon his looks as much as possible. He was ready for the decisive visit to the house of Jakow. Up till now he had not admitted to himself the possibility of failure. His goal was clear before him and he had been plunging headlong toward it, expending all the strength that was in him, as he had done once before in his life. The first quest had been crowned with success and he had lived aimlessly now for ten long years, awaiting a new trail. When it came, fate had prepared a good one. tion to the marriage which a man of more forethought might have let discourage him. When he was a feeble, infirm old man, providing he lived so long, Niki would be a beautiful young woman, just passing into early maturity. Her passions would be stronger, deeper, at a time when he was going downhill at an ever faster pace. What would such a maladjusted chronology do to a marriage? On Earth, where he expected to live, the answer was an old and familiar story. Still darker fancies ruled his mind as the miles passed, and he was not in an optimistic mood when he tapped on their front door. It opened immediately and Niki's younger sister, a replica of the beautiful girl in all but size, led him to the dining room, where the family was just beginning to gather. Jakow permitted no talk of the contest at the dinner table. He kept the conversation on Earthmen, asking incisive questions about their customs, habits, social attitudes and scientific ability. His questions were not disguised digs but open, frank inquiries. After about the first hundred queries Mike understood something he was a little late in grasping. It was not exactly an accident that the beautiful Niki had been chosen to work for the Earthmen at Illustrated by Mahlon Blaine ready at # each. #(# at # each. these # books due October # at # each. due November # at # each. Order now for shipment as received. More forthcomingtitles F.O.B. Brooklyn, N. Y. #I #th Ave. Brooklyn #, N. Y. their small station, or that Jakow was their official contact. The big man was an advanced sociologist, probably the Kee'Na equivalent of Carnacki. The Loyios apparently trained their administrators in the human sciences rather than politics. This business of Man studying Loyios was indeed a twoway proposition! When the meal was over Jakow asked the entire group to gather in what was, to earthly eyes, the family room. Niki's mother, a woman whose beauty was of the quiet, unobtrusive sort, sat by Jakow. Niki had disappeared. "Mike, in fairness to you I think you should know that Niki was requested, by myself and a group of other sociologists, to hold these contests," Jakow began abruptly. "I am sorry to tell you your -- ah -- let us call it intensity -- somewhat frightened her. Her first reaction to your forthright statement on the ship was to inform you she did not desire your courtship. Her second was to tell me about it. Which I am very glad she did. Our young people do not normally think of combining until after their education is complete, a matter of several more years in Niki's case. But we asked her to consent to your courtship for the purpose of studying an Earthman's reactions under unusual stimuli." He paused, and there was a faint cloud over his face when he continued. "You are a wonderful and extraordinary race of humanoids, Mike, and we have never encountered another like you. According to all that is logical you should not have Won a single contest, yet it was our judgment that you beat Niki soundly in the overall game. There are certain intangibles -- facts which do not appear under a microscope or in an equation -- which form a basic difference between Loyios and Earthmen. You have a drive, a will to succeed, that is terrible in its strength, and a little frightening. I think it is rooted in your high emotion level, a compensatory factor for a certain lack of logic and selfcontrol. Nevertheless, it has brought you far. "Honesty is ruthless, Mike, and ruthle,ssness is true kindness, as you will perhaps later learn. We do not think Niki feels for you that strong emotional attachment you know as love, and we consider her mating with you, a man far beneath her in cultural status, extremely unwise. We do not think she would be happy on Earth, and feel that the adjustment from our way of life to yours is too much to ask of a young girl. You have many good points, but the barbarian is too close beneath your surface. We have all voted against you, feeling that the differences in life expectancy and background far outweigh a momentary physical attraction such as Niki now admits she feels for you. by Joseph Green Niki is free to choose for herself, of course, but few young girls go against their family's judgment." silence, and then Jakow said, in a voice unnaturally soft, "I am truly sorry to tell you this, Mike." "Don't be," said Mike as he got heavily to his feet. He could not keep all the bitterness from his voice. "The experiment has been a success, hasn't it? You have reams of data on an Earthman's behavior patterns while under stress. Dr. Carnacki needs the material I'm furnishing him. No one is hurt, Niki will forget her temporary physical attraction to a barbarian, and life will go on." He walked to the door, shoulders slumping tiredly, then turned and said, "Only one comment. You people, Loyios or Earthman, who decide things with your heads without listening to your hearts make me sick. Very sick." He walked across the shadeporch into the bright moonlight where his mount waited, and then he discovered what a little thing resentment is, and of what small importance words are. Niki, already in the saddle, was waiting for him. And there was a wide, happy smile    Don't miss next issue -- the biggest IF ever! Beginning Exciting New Book-Length Novel of Interplanetary Adventure Plus novelettes by -- and IF's star-studded regular lineup of short stories and features. The Novembef issue of IF will be on sale September #th -- reserve your copy or send in your subscription now! IF  Feature lenge -- how good are you at predicting? -- has been, as we predicted, interesting indeed. To restate: What we are after is logical prediction based on past events and present factors, on the premise that if you observe enough factors, and understand their trend, you can extend that trend into a probable future. We asked for the overall feeling of "If this goes on -- " and, as far as possible, an adherence to this form: Such-and-such has been hap'  pening all along; : Stand-so has just occurred ; 'Therefore I predict that in ' v ' # days this will happen: The reason we picked # days was that, due to the normal lag of magazine publishing and distribution, it takes that long for your responses to come back to you in print. The ideal prediction, then, would be one which would appear on the newsstands at the same time as newspapers carrying the same story. (This is being written on May #, just to orient you: All I'd need to do to prove how smart I am would be to write here what you, reading this, call the lead article on this morning's newspaper.) As promised, we give you here the most interesting of the predictions received to date. Mrs. Angelo Castagna, of Thompsonville, Gunn., sends not one, but four, and we follow each with our continents in parenthesis. I . "When they get the next man-powered capsule in orbit, although it may be blacked out by complete censorship, they will be met by a U.F.O. and allowed to know what solar system has us under observation. It will be under mental communication rather than spoken language." (Even George Adamski did not visualize space ships with pedals! I'm sure Mrs. C. meant "manned" rather than "man-powered"; as for the rest, either she's right and we'll never know -- because of the censors -- or...well, she's wrong.) # . "The first public appeal will be made for people to donate parts of their bodies that are healthy to go into a bank for spare human parts similar to the eye banks that already are in use. The donors will be tattooed with a sign that they have given permission so that the part to be kept will be removed before deterioration sets in." (Has anyone heard this appeal ?) # . "The first actual hurricane dispersement will take effect in September that will cause the storm to be turned out to sea before it hits any of the coastal areas. The same technique will then be used in the typhoon areas of the Pacific and the tornado belt of the middle West." (File this until Sept.) # . "There will be a definite exchange of understandable speech between the porpoises and the men who have been studying them, and the porpoises will come up with some of the things that men have been trying to find out about for many centuries. But the porpoises will limit their talks to only the ones who can be trusted. They will not allow themselves to become sideshow freaks." (There's that ol' censorship again. If you're right, Mrs. C., how can we know?) thanks to Mrs. Castagna. We hope we see many more predictions. We hope, too, that they will be checkable against concurrent news. The best predictions will be printed here, the best of all will win a free subscription to IF, and will surely provide a permanent proof of our (slightly tattered, but still firm) conviction that sf people really can think ahead. Our own predictions of two issues ago were outstanding. They were one hundred per IF  Short Story It was a backward world, all right -- in a special and very deadly manner! G OD knows I didn't want Hacker in the preliminary delegation right from the start. I wasn't thinking, either, of the screwball ways history can go about poetically repeating itself sometimes. I just knew that an uppity, smart-alecky kid of fifty could only cause trouble. He already had. Rayna had been our earlier landfall on the First Interstellar Expedition. It possessed a fairly intelligent form of life, even if the Raynans were oviparous and technologically retarded. Hacker had taken over the bulldozer to clear the area around our craft. Terra , and he had been repeatedly told to stay very close to it. But no, he insisted on flattening out the peat-like top of the nearest hill too. Unfortunately that hilltop was an incubation bed for Raynan fledglings. The massacre involved not only a vast number of hatching eggs but five adult females, and we had to get away pronto while thousands of paper limbs waved threateningly at the murderers from Earth. I'm only the Science Chronicler of this expedition but Dr. Barnes is Chief Medical Officer. His protests should have mattered where mine didn't. 'Tm a hundred per cent behind Johnson," he told Captain Weber. "That kid's no damned good. The three of us will go into town with these Newtaneans and, sure as I'm standing here, Hacker will do something wrong." Captain Weber, looking worried as usual, tried to explain. "He'll just do the chauffeuring." But he got off that tack immediately when he saw we were not following along. "Look, I know he's a pest. But this is a political matter, for the good of the Space Corps. His great-great-uncle is President of the World Council. For all I know the old man hates his guts, won't listen to a word he says, but let's not take any chances. We're going to need plenty of these expeditions. And hyper-drive craft take an awful lot out of the economy." The upshot of the matter was that we patriotically agreed to the setup. The caplain gave Hacker a good chewing-out about respecting the rights of the Newtaneans. The kid turned out to be surprisingly amenable on that score. "They're human!" he said, and I could see he was very sincere about it. "I wouldn't do anything to hurt them, sir. What's more, they must be almost as smart as we arc and I'm not about to commit suicide." So the three of us got into the jeep and rolled out of Terra I onto Newtane's soil. I still felt uncomfortable about Hacker, though. He had tasted blood on Rayna and the effect of that on him had been unusually bad; he had acquired a reckless attitude toward the rights of intelligent life, his own included. A S if to prove me wrong, he drove very carefully over the special road the Newtaneans had laid out overnight from our landing area to the highway a mile or so away. The three carloads of scowling plenipotentiaries up ahead looked appealingly funny. While the Newtaneans were remarkably, even handsomely, like us (except for a certain closeness of the eyes and a reversed ordering of their fingers) their facial muscles carried different emotional convictions. On our landing ten hours before those officials had thought our smiling faces indicated angry aggressiveness and we had been equally uncertain about their intentions. But their Semanticizer had eventually made the true state of affairs clear. Evolution had determined that an upward set of Newtanean facial muscles meant a bad situation, a downward set pleasure and cordiality. The more they scowled the more we smiled and everybody was very happy about the potential flowering of transgalactic culture that we were instituting. When we turned onto the magnificent superhighway, however, Hacker became furious. He kept trying to pull over to the right but a steady stream of scarab-shaped cars, filled with curious sightseers, kept getting in hig hway. 'This is crazy' he cried. T think they drive on the left here' Dr. Barnes tried to explain. 'That's what I mean -- they're crazy !" "They did it that way in England for centuries," I said. "It took a long time to get them to change." "Fine, fine." Suddenly he laughed, as if pleased with his capacity for tolerance. "If it's good enough for them it's good enough for us visitors. They sure know how to build beautiful roads!" I suppose I should have been pleased with this shift toward good humor but I wasn't. I just could not like the youngster. He had been forgivably cocky for his age before, but now something nasty had been added. Still, he remained on his best behavior as we approached Crona, the capital city. Its golden towers gleamed in the sun and everywhere there were crowds of beautiful tan people, waving to us and happily scowling their welcome. The lead cars stopped before a particularly elegant skyscraper that was set in the middle of vast, symmetrical gardens. We got out and were greeted by dignitaries accompanied by technicians with Semanticizing equipment. (If this equipment worked slowly,, it, was still faster than any we'd developed.) The men who came toward us were piizzled when we extended our hands but, once the translation came through and they understood it was an Earth custom, they copied our gesture. Only they all put out their left hands. It took a while before reasonable contact could be made. "Interestin g," said Dr. Barnes. "They all seem to be left-handed." "I don't see what's so interesting about that," Hacker snorted through his puggish nose. "I've seen left-handed people on Earth." "Good for you," the doctor answered drily. Hacker looked a little annoyed but for once managed to keep quiet. I explained to the receiving delegation how hyper-radio contact could be established with our system for information exchanges and then told them tomorrow's group from Terra I would be much larger. It would be in a position to set out the technical arrangements in all the necessary detail. The dialogue crept along as translations were made, but finally an especially regal figure stepped forward and told us the rest of the proceedings would take place within the building. We followed the Newtaneans into a hall so vast that we still seemed to be outdoors. Subtle colors . were playing free-form patterns pri the walls and the synesthetip reaction was that of hearing a music too beautiful, too perfect, for the relative crudity of the human ear to grasp alone. "This," Hacker laughed, "is my idea of heaven!" I wasn't about to unbend and openly agree with him on anything. But celestial it really was. And then the subtly rich smells of the food began to play on our nostrils. It was brought out on great automatic servers and robot arms set heaping, steaming plates before the fifty Newtaneans. We, of course, had to refuse, taking out our compacted rations and setting them before us. All the Newtaneans were still meat-eaters. The main course was a small fowl, thoroughly browned in gravy. For me the most interesting thing about it was that four drumstick legs stuck out of each torso rather than the regulation two found on all earth-based birds. For Hacker, though, a more practical matter was involved. "I'd sure like to try a helping of that bird," he said. The two of us, naturally, were shocked. "That must have been a living creature once," said Barnes. "So what?" "Well, our civilization is essentially vegetarian. They just haven't reached our level as yet in that respect." "Nuts loaf to you!" Hacker snapped. "And synthetic yeast pie too! I've eaten flesh." That really upset me. I know there's still a little surreptitious meat-consumption on Earth -- genetics shows we must get a few throwbacks In every generation -- but I'd never before met anyone who openly boasted about it. Synthetic foods meet gourmet needs better than traditional, ones do anyway. (Of course, I don't mean the dull compacted stuff we get on long space hops but the food served on Terran planets themselves.) Any Earthman eating flesh back home is deliberately trying to taste the atavistic sensations of savagery. "You know how immoral that is," I told him. "Hacker, let's forget the moral issue," Barnes said, considering him with disgust. "Let's just be sensible. We don't know enough about Newtane yet to eat anything ." Hacker laughed. "Why, it smells just like our own food, only better." He picked at his vita-concentrate. "Oh, let's forget about the whole thing." We tried to. Several dignitaries rose to their full seven feet and spoke slowly into Semanticizers, flinging their queer hands out for emphasis with their thumbs waving where our pinkies do. Suddenly, though, Hacker got up from his seat and hurried down the long table to the place where the I e a d i n g spokesman was eating. He leaned over him, speaking into the nearest translator, and I could see the Newtanean smiling broadly, as if trying to refuse something, while Hacker frowned. Finally the smile faded into a friendly scowl. Nothing good could be coming out of this. A minute later a robot arm proffered a loaded plate to Hacker and he started back to us with it. Barnes rose to stop him, but before Hacker reached us he had taken two mouthfuls of the meat, I have never seen such sheer self-satisfied delight on a human face as after those first bites. "You shouldn't be doing that," Barnes said when he sat down next to us again. "You're just old fogies," Hacker grunted through a meat-stuffed mouth. "This is the best food I've ever eaten." He somehow shoveled another load of meat between his lips. Thirty seconds later his face twisted into a caricature of the human physiognomy, all writhing lines, as if every muscle were breaking loose from its neighbors. The last unswallowed portion of food erupted from his mouth and he fell forward into the vile mess. He was dead. through the hall. Everywhere wildly smiling faces expressed despair at such an end for an honored guest. Barnes sprang into action, pulling the portable medical kit from his belt and immediately starting blood tests while some native doctors joined him with their emergency equipment. "Must start revitalizing immediately," he said, then stopped, ashen-faced, as he studied an analyzer tube. "Fantastic! No, it can't be !" The Newtaneans were equally bewildered. They rushed Hacker to a nearby treatment chamber. All I could do was wait, while the Newtanean leader explained that Hacker had told him we had authorized his trying the food. There was no need to doubt his story. It was just what the kid would have done. I did my best to assure him that we knew his intentions had been honorable. A half-hour later Barnes returned, a robot platform following with Hacker, body covered by a preservative glaze, on it. "Nothing can be done," he said. "I've tried everything. Hacker's too thoroughly dead for anything ever to bring him back. We'll just have to take his body home for further study." "But what killed him?" I demanded. "A dozen or so things out of a thousand possibilities." "You mean you don't have any idea?" "Oh, I have some idea. Too many ideas in fact. Look, Johnson, chemistry's not your specialty but this is fairly elementary. All life contains protein, right Y # "Right." "And all protein consists of amino acids. Every natural protein back home is built on levo -- left turn -- amino acids. Here it is just the opposite, the mirror image of what we know. Every amino acid is dextro -- to the right!" "But how can it be different here?" "Johnson, they could ask the same question about us with equal justification -- or, rather, equal lack of justification." I was trying to feel my way through the confusion. "Barnes, I know a world could be made of anti-matter but -- " "No, no. Anti-matter is a reversal of changes within the atom. These atoms are the same as ours. It's the organization that is different -- regular molecules with a different twist." "But why should it have killed him then? We absorb starch and reject cellulose which is closely related. But the body just refuses to accept the cellulose. It doesn't necessarily go ahead and die." "Starch and cellulose are both dextro, old man. This is a more fundamental difference. Maybe the body just throws off some of these compounds too. But there were some -- plenty, I suspect -- it couldn't throw off." He glanced toward the stiffening corpse, sympathetically. "The poor kid couldn't leave well enough alone." sal days out from Newtane and soon we will drop from hyper-drive as we reach the orbit of Pluto. I shouldn't still be feeling as uneasy as I do. I'm sure I shouldn't. We have had five friendly, informative days with the people of a great civilization remarkably like ours, and President Hacker has radioed he understands perfectly that we were not responsible for the tragedy, nobody was. The kid, it seems, wasn't the apple of his eye anyway. Ninety men and one corpse returning to the security of terra firma. I should, when all is said and done, be happy with the way most things have worked out. But I am a Chronicler and I know the peculiarly symbolic, seemingly superficial ways in which history manages to repeat itself. It is more than three centuries since the last War on Earth between rightists and leftists. That was a matter of differing concepts of economics and politics. I can't help wondering, though, whether there are not even more fundamental points of eventual conflict in the universe that we have barely discovered. If there are, I'm beginning to suspect they'll still have something to do with the unfathomable difference between Right and Left, a difference that took many lives centuries ago -- and may not be through  -- wiiM IF  Article we flung open the door of our refrigerator the other night. We found ourselves, in the sudden glare of light from the open door, face to face with a large rabbit. "What," we demanded, "are you doing in the refrigerator?" "This is a Westinghouse, isn't it?" asked the rabbit. "Yes -- " "Well," said the rabbit, "I'm just westing." Having discharged this anecdote, without which we are incapable of discussing Westinghouse, we may proceed. When George Westinghouse opened his first enterprise in Garrison Alley, Pittsburgh, two hundred employees worked in # square feet of space to manufacture # products -- motors, switches, generators and the like. Now that # years have passed, over a hundred thousand people work for the company in # major manufacturing plants, # manufacturing and repair plants and # sales offices, making # variations of around # basic products. Among these many activities, one has been, as any perceptive reader of these pages can attest, to feed your Feature Department much fascinating material in science and technology. The very least we can do in recognition of Westinghouse's #th anniversary is to have a look at it and its works. (Other young strong enterprises please copy.) Each year an issue of Westinghouse's handsome house organ, the bimonthly Westinghouse Engineer , is given over to an annual engineering review. To find out what the company is up to in a twelvemonth, we could hardly do better than to riffle through it. An editorial by the Vice President in charge of engineering, Mr. J. A. Hutcheson, contains one remark of special interest to the discerning sf reader, for it would seem that for many years now we have, in a lofty and knowledgeable way, deplored the increasing compartmentation of the sciences, and the apparent lack of communication between one specialist and another, as if we educated consumers knew something the big boys did not. Well, listen at the man: "The knowledgeable reader can... peer behind the scenes and note many changes occurring in technology itself, in the basic approaches to technical problems. For one thing, the classic distinctions between the scientist and the engineer, between research and development, are becoming hazier, and may ultimately disappear. In many advanced technology projects today, the dividing line is difficult to determine, and frequently the same scientist or engineer may be required to carry the project through all stages. This points squarely toward the need for versatility in tomorrow's scientist-engineer, if he is to cope with the technology of his day." Hosanna ! Now let's look at a year's work at Westinghouse. Please bear in mind that we can't go into detail about all that follows; if we did we'd crowd all the stories out of this issue of IF, and the next one too. If any of it catches your fancy and you'd like to know more, by all means write; what we don't have on hand we can probably find out, or make the right referral for you. Also please don't fight with me if you know that one or another of the items and efforts mentioned below are not Westinghouse inventions (though a good many are.) The company does an immense amount of development work on ideas and devices from all over. Power Generation , transmission, and distribution . Westinghouse has been up to the earlobes in nuclear energy for a long time now. This year sees operation of a new core for the reactor-generator at Shippingport, Pa. The imprived core ups the output two and a half times, and reduces the fuel cost by more than #. New atomic powerhouses started operation in Rowe, Mass, and Mol, Belgium (this the first commercial reactor to be exported from the U. S.) and construction went forward on new nuclear power plants in New Bedford, Pa., and in the south for the Carolinas-Virginia Co. Designs were completed for two really big ones, one at Chooz, France, and another in southern California -- which, with the world's largest atomic reactor and a be the biggest yet. by Theodora Sturgeon Along with power sources, the company preoccupies itself with the turbines driven by that power, the generators that make usable energy from it, and the equipment which distributes it. One of the most interesting new complexes goes into service about now in Sewaren, N. J. Impressively large (# megawatts) it' is also so highly automated it is all but spooky. Hundreds of operating variables are monitored and controlled by a computer called Pro da c (a Westinghouse trademark) which has a builtin "priority director," allowing the computer to switch from one program to another depending upon the urgency of any of the thousands of decisions that the computer has to make. We'll slide past some astonishing developments in turbines (you wouldn't think anything as simple and basic as a turbine could be improved; but they keep on doing . it) and generators (two new # rpm monsters which operate at # lbs pressure) to a real sf heading (Trinistat Joins Mag-a-stat) which deals with a new use for Trinistor, a solid-state rectifier, coupled with a power-control; it approaches the ultimate in speed of response and veratility in generator control, separation of electrodes in arc devices and the like; Insuldur, a new insulator for power transformers which will permit utilities to carry heavier loads with the same equipment, or deliver their rated loads for a much longer time; a new test-transformer to test giant power transformers, so big it must be shipped on two oversized depressed-center flatcars and, assembled, measures #' x #, is #' high and weighs # tons. Here's a new tap-changer for limiting current when switching high-voltage lines, a gadget for winding heavy transformer coils six at a time (and producing a highly improved coil in the process), a new method of voltage regulation, circuit breakers which interrupt the arc between opening switchpoints with puffs of gas, and new lowvoltage and telemetering systems for power distribution. And here's a high-capacity watt-hour meter, with bearings that bear on nothing at all ! Magnets built into the rotor shaft and supporting cup repel one another and suspend the whole rotor assembly in space, without friction. Applications of Power. Automatic controls are the big thing here -- "brains" which stoke blast furnaces, control to the thousandth of an inch the speeding bands of paper in its manufacture, and many other applications, and the ingenious components which make it all happen. Here's the Trinistor again, starting and NfiUififiSiHft stopping a two hp motor a a test to see how long it can keep it up. (Forever, apparently. The Trinistor, a solidstate gadget, does this switching with no moving parts.) And here's some fingertip controls with which you can handle the #-ton crane specially built to handle the new #-ton, # kw generator rotors (# of 'em) for the new Niagara power plant. And an incredible new hoist-motor I  system for swift handling of heavy loads where, at the same time, precision and safety are factors, in such jobs as shiploading. This system makes the descending load generate electricity to help raise it, brake it and put it where you say it should go. And here's an array of new electric motor designs -- smaller, stronger, cooler and simpler. One of them eliminates the field coils on the hundreds of small motors used to turn the rollers on the run-out tables in steel mills. Control and distribution devices. So many of those transformer boxes you see on power poles near your house are of standard size, while demands keep on growing, that brains have to be cracked on the problem of putting more circuits and more capacity inside the boxes, and while making components smaller, making them better. This is being done in the development and design of new contactors, circuit breakers, insulators and controls. Some of them are designed to protect extremely delicate electronic devices from voltage surges, and for them a new system (and a new word) of hynetic (hydraulic magnetic) circuit breaking. The gimmick is to vary, by magnetism, the viscosity of a fluid in a hydraulic system! Lamps and Lighting. Here are some of the most fascinating developments of all. It has long been known by engineers that the brightest and most efficient phosphors -- chemicals which glow under electrical excitation -- can't be used for ordinary lights because they are green. Your girl just wouldn't appreciate your gazing at her in green light. Within the past year, Westinghouse engineers have found that by a precise blending of red phosphors in the green, they can produce a new white light. In spite of the steady improvement in fluorescents in past years, this one is startling; with the same wattage it yields # more than the Cool White, # more than White, and a huge # more than the Daylight lamp. Best of all, these new lamps have nothing special but the new phosphors, and are directly interchangeable with the old models. Improvements have been made in mercury-vapor lamps as well. Due to vl new filament, you can get # more light out of a # watt mere than before. Another fine, lighting development is designed for what airline pilots call the "black hole" -- the unlighted runway center in which they must touch down. A new centerline lamp is set into holes on the centerline one inch deep and eight inches in diameter. With lamp, lens, contacts, gaskets and fittings installed, the. light projects only above the surface, giving a bright centerline while being immune to rolling wheels, snowplows or extremes in temperature. Roads get attention from the company's lighting engineers, too. A new "luminaire" called the OV-#, can increase street and highway lighting # to # -- or maintain it at present levels at correspondingly less cost. And in another device lies a revolution in home and shop lighting -- a fluorescent tube bent into a "labyrinth" so that overall, it's square, not long. A light like this can be set flush in wall or ceiling and contains its own dirtproof reflector. Semiconductors and electronics drew so much attention for the year that we'll have to skim again. There's a new technique, the frame grid, which much improves the quality and life of the tuner and rf amplifier bottles in the front end of your TV set ; because of it the image will go further yet away from the rounded rectangle to the square look. A fabulous image amplifier, the Astracon, can take in one photon of light and put out # at the other end. What this will do for the astronomy business we can only begin to guess. There's a new vidicon for weather satellites only y # " in diameter and a super-rugged orthicon for low-light work such as satellite tracking. Another vidicon eliminates magnetic deflection coils, making for much smaller TV cameras and extremely narrow-band transmission; it makes it possible to send visual information over conventional phone lines instead of special cable. An "ionization gauge" will measure the degree of vacuum of outer space in the range mercury; the best up to now has been # # . The Trinistor we mentioned before, a solid-state rectifier which acts as a control gate for current flow, has been designed up to capacities in the order of # amps at # continuous volts and can take #-volt surges; you'll have to stop thinking of semi-conductors as gadgets merely for portable radios. The controlled dendritic process for "growing" amplifiers by the yard -- we did an article on this for you recently -- proceeds apace, and there's a new array of thermo-electric devices useful for cooling electronic components by turning heat directly into electricity. Solid-state inverters are now in use, turning dc into ac in underwater repeaters in telephone cable. Finally, there's the Televex system, medical x-rays coupled to TV, which can better the dim old fluoroscopic screen by # times and put it on TV monitors any way you like -- for a classroom, say, or a roomful of doctors in consultation. Marine and Aviation. The company contributed to the year's most spectacular, and the year's most impressive events in these fields -- the first underwater launching of Polaris, and the launching of the big flat-top Enterprise , which is powered by eight Westinghouse nuclear reactors. Work proceeds on nuclear propulsion for the Long Beach , a guided missile cruiser. And the fleet of nuclear subs, non-existent only six years ago, has been increased to # built or authorized. A strictly-from-sf gadget is the dredge Markham , which uses a company device called Magamp -- a magnetic amplifier -- to control the electric drive at variable speeds and directions, while the diesel generators rotate at set rpm. Time was that only steam could do heavy dredging, because steam engines can stop without stalling. The Magamp whips this problem. Another unique feature of the ship is a transverse bow tunnel with a big reversible prop in it, making the vessel superbly maneuverable at the lowest speeds and worst cross-current conditions. Cocktails, anyone? There's a shaker device for vibration testing which does away with mechanical linkages. A heavy magnesium plate rides on a film of oil on an optically flat granite block. The plate is driven much as is your hi-fi speaker, by armatures moving in the air-gap of electromagnets. The #" x #" table can handle massive loads and shake them through a halfinch travel up to # times a second. A heater for super-velocity wind-tunnels can deliver a # mile-per-hour blast of air at # F. Special low-inductance capacitors (which can store up relatively small amounts of energy, release it suddenly in enormous surges) are pushing us through the beachheads of controlled fusion. Other capacitors are used for "hot shot" re-entry simulation, turning loose a flow similar to speeds from Mach # to Mach #. There's lots more. Let us close with the simple observation that if one of several companies can rack up a score like this, the capitalist system is not doing so bad after all! bv Thaodorfe SturMon IF  Novelette It was a simple student exchange -- but Retief gave them more of an education than they expected! I nan took his green-lined cape and orange-feathered beret from the clothes tree. "I'm off now, Retief," he said. "I hope you'll manage the administrative routine during my absence without any unfortunate incidents." "That seems a modest enough hope," Retief said. "I'll try to live up to it." "I don't appreciate frivolity with reference to this Division," Magnan said testily. "When I first came here, the Manpower Utilization Directorate, Division of Libraries and Education was a shambles. I fancy I've made Frankly, I question the wisdom of placing you in charge of such a sensitive desk, even for two weeks. But remember. Yours is purely a rubberstamp function." "In that case, let's leave it to Miss Furkle. I'll take a couple of weeks off myself. With her poundage, she could bring plenty of pressure to bear." "I assume you jest, Retief," Magnan said sadly. "I should expect even you to appreciate that Bogan participation in the Exchange Program may be the first step toward sublimation of their aggressions into more cultivated channels." "I see they're sending two thousand students to d'Land," Retief said, glancing at the Memo for Record. '"That's a sizable sublimation." Magnan nodded. "The Bogans have launched no less than four military campaigns in the last two decades. They're known as the Hoodlums of the Nicodemean Cluster. Now, perhaps, we shall see them breaking that precedent and entering into the cultural life of the Galaxy." "Breaking and entering," Retief said. "You may have something there. But I'm wondering what they'll study on d'Land. That's an industrial world of the poor but honest variety." "Academic details are the affair of the students and their professors," Magnan said. "Our function is merely to bring them together. See that you don't antagonize the Bogan representative. This will be an excellent opportunity for you to practice your diplomatic restrain t -- not your strong point, I'm sure you'll agree." A buzzer sounded. Retief punched a button. "What is it, Miss Furkle?" "That -- bucolic person from Lovenbroy is here again." On the small desk screen, Miss Furkle's meaty features were compressed in disapproval. "This fellow's a confounded pest. I'll leave him to you, Retief," Magnan said. "Tell him something. Get rid of him. And remember: here at Corps HQ, all eyes are upon you." "If I'd thought of that, I'd have worn my other suit," Retief said. Magnan snorted and passed from view. Retief punched Miss Furkle's button. "Send the bucolic person in." A tall broad man with bronze skin and gray hair, wearing tight trousers of heavy cloth, a loose shirt open at the neck and a short jacket, stepped into the room. He had a bundle under his arm. He paused at sight of Retief, looked him over momentarily, then advanced and held out his hand. Retief took it. For a moment the two big men stood, face to face. The newcomer's jaw muscles knotted. Then he winced. Retief dropped his hand and motioned to a chair. "That's nice knuckle work, mister," the stranger said, massaging his hand. "First time anybody ever did that to me. My fault though. I started it, I guess." He grinned and sat down. "What can I do for you?" Retief said. "You work for this Culture bunch, do you? Funny. I thought they were all ribboncounter boys. Never mind. I'm Hank Arapoulous. I'm a farmer. What I wanted to see you about was -- " He shifted in his chair. "Well, out on by Keith Laumet: Lovenbroy we've got a serious problem. The wine crop is just about ready. We start picking in another two, three months. Now I don't know if you're familiar with the Bacchus vines we grow... ?" "No," Retief said. "Have a cigar?" He pushed a box across the desk. Arapoulous took one. "Bacchus vines are an unusual crop," he said, puffing the cigar alight. "Only mature every twelve years. In between, the vines don't need a lot of attention, so our time's mostly our own. We like to farm, though. Spend a lot of time developing new forms. Apples the size of a melon -- and sweet -- " "Sounds very pleasant," Retief said. "Where does the Libraries and Education Division come in?" Arapoulous leaned forward. "We go in pretty heavy for the arts. Folks can't spend all their time hybridizing plants. We've turned all the land area we've got into parks and farms. Course, we left some sizable forest areas for hunting and such. Lovenbroy's a nice place, Mr. Retief." "It sounds like it, Mr. Arapoulous. Just what -- " "Call me Hank. We've got long seasons back home. Five of 'em. Our year's about eighteen Terry months. Cold as hell in winter; eccentric orbit, you know. Blue-black sky, stars visible all day. We do mostly painting and sculpture in the winter. Then Spring; still plenty cold. Lots of skiing, bob-sledding, ice skating; and it's the season for woodworkers. Our furniture -- " "I've seen some of your furniture," Retief said. "Beautiful work." Arapoulous nodded. "All local timbers too. Lots of metals in our soil and those sulphates give the woods some color, I'll tell you. Then comes the Monsoon. Rain -- it comes down in sheets. But the sun's g e I I i n g closer. Shines all the time. Ever seen it pouring rain in the sunshine? That's the musicwriting season. Then summer. Summer's hot. We stay inside in the daytime and have beach parties all night. Lots of beach on Lovenbroy; we're mostly islands. That's the drama and symphony time. The theatres are set up on the sand, or anchored offshore. You have the music and the surf and the bonfires and stars -- we're close to the center of a globular cluster, you know... " "You say it's time now for the wine crop?" "That's right. Autumn's our harvest season. Most years we have just the ordinary crops. Fruit, grain, that kind of thing; getting it in doesn't take long. We spend most of the time on architecture, geting new places ready for the winter or remodeling the older ones. We spend a lot of time in our houses. We like to have them comfortable. But this year's different. This is Wine Year." his cigar, looked worriedly at Retief. "Our wine crop is our big money crop," he said. "We make enough to keep us going. But this year..." "The crop isn't panning out?" "Oh, the crop's fine. One of the best I can remember. Course, I'm only twentyeight ; I can't remember but two other harvests. The problem's not the crop." "Have you lost your markets? That sounds like a matter for the Commercial -- " "Lost our markets? Mister, nobody that ever tasted our wines ever settled for anything else!" "It sounds like I've been missing something," said Retief. "I'll have to try them some time." Arapoulous put his bundle on the desk, pulled off the wrappings. "No time like the present," he said. Retief looked at the two squat bottles, one green, one amber, both dusty, with faded labels, and blackened corks secured by wire. "D r i n k i n g on duty is frowned on in the Corps, Mr. Arapoulous," he said. "This isn't drinking. It's just wine." Arapoulous pulled the wire retainer loose, thumbed the cork. It rose slowly, then popped in the air. Arapoulous caught it. Aromatic fumes wafted from the bottle. "Besides, my feelings would be hurt if you didn't join me." He winked. Retief took two tliin-walled glasses from a table beside the desk. "Come to think of it, we also have to be careful about violating quaint native customs." Arapoulous filled the glasses. Retief picked one up, sniffed the deep rust-colored fluid, tasted it, then took a healthy swallow. He looked at Arapoulous thoughtfully. "Hmmm. It tastes like salted pecans, with an undercurrent of crusted port." "Don't try to describe it, Mr. Retief," Arapoulous said. He took a mouthful of wine, swished it around his teeth, swallowed. "It's Bacchus wine, that's all. Nothing like it in the Galaxy." He pushed the second bottle toward Retief. "The custom back home is to alternate red wine and black." pulled the wires loose, nudged the cork, caught it as it popped up. "Bad luck if you miss the cork," Arapoulous said, nodding. "You probably never heard about the trouble we had on Lovenbroy a few years back?" "Can't say that I did, Hank." Retief poured the black wine into two fresh by Keith Laumer I # glasses. "Here's to the harvest." "We've got plenty of minerals on Lovenbroy," Arapoulous said, swallowing wine. "But we don't plan to wreck the landscape mining 'em. We like to farm. About ten years back some neighbors of ours landed a force. They figured they knew better what to do with our minerals than we did. Wanted to strip-mine, smelt ore. We convinced 'em otherwise. But it took a year, and we lost a lot of men." "That's too bad," Retief said. "I'd say this one tastes more like roast beef and popcorn over a Riesling base." "It put us in a bad spot," Arapoulous went on. "We had to borrow money from a world called Croanie. Mortgaged our crops. Had to start exporting art work too. Plenty of buyers, but it's not the same when you're doing it for strangers." "Say, this business-of alternating drinks is the real McCoy," Retief said. "What's the problem? Croanie about to foreclose?" "Well, the loan's due. The wine crop would put us in the clear. But we need harvest hands. Picking Bacchus grapes isn't a job you can turn over to machinery -- and anyway we wouldn't if we could. Vintage season is the high point of living on Lovenbroy. Everybody joins in. First, there's the picking in the fields. Miles and miles of vineyards covering the mountain sides, and crowding the river banks, with gardens here and there. Big vines, eight feet high, loaded with fruit, and deep grass growing between. The wine-carriers keep on the run, bringing wine to the pickers. There's prizes for the biggest day's output, bets on who can fill the most baskets in an hour... The sun's high and bright, and it's just cool enough to give you plenty of energy. Come nightfall, the tables are set up in the garden plots, and the feast is laid on : roast turkeys, beef, hams, all kinds of fowl. Big salads. Plenty of fruit. Freshbaked bread...and wine, plenty of wine. The cooking's done by a different crew each night in each garden, and there's prizes for the best crews. "Then the wine-making. We still tramp out the vintage. That's mostly for the young folks but anybody's welcome. That's when things start to get loosened up. Matter of fact, pretty near half our young-uns are born after a vintage. All bets are off then. It keeps a fellow on his toes though. Ever tried to hold onto a gal wearing nothing but a layer of grape juice?" "You say most of the children are born after a vintage. That would make them only twelve years old by the time -- " "Oh, that's Lovenbroy years; they'd be eighteen, Terry reckoning." "I was thinking you looked a little mature for twentyeight," Retief said. "Forty-two, Terry years," Arapoulous said. "But this year it looks bad. We've got a bumper crop -- and we're short-handed. If we don't get a big vintage, Croanie steps in. Lord knows what they'll do to the land. Then next vintage time, with them holding half our grape acreage -- " "You hocked the vineyards?" "Yep. Pretty dumb, huh? But we figured twelve years was a long time." "On the whole," Retief said, "I think I prefer the black. But the red is hard to beat... " "What we figured was, maybe you Culture boys could help us out. A loan to see us through the vintage, enough to hire extra hands. Then we'd repay it in sculpture, painting, furniture -- " "Sorry, Hank, All we do here is work out itineraries for traveling side-shows, that kind of thing. Now, if you needed a troop of Groaci noseflute players -- " "Can they pick grapes?" "Nope. Anyway, they can't stand the daylight. Have you talked this over with the Labor Office?" "Sure did. They said they'd fix us up with all the electronics specialists and computer programmers we wanted -- but no field hands. Said it was what they classified as menial drudgery; you'd have thought I was trying to buy slaves." The buzzer sounded. Miss Furkle's features appeared on the desk screen. "You're due at the Intergroup Council in five minutes," she said. "Then afterwards, there are the Bogan students to meet." "Thanks." Retief finished his glass, stood. "I have to run, Hank," he said. "Let me think this over. Maybe I can come up with something. Check with me day after tomorrow. And you'd better leave the bottles here. Cultural exhibits, you know." II A S the council meeting broke up, Retief caught the eye of a colleague across the table. "Mr. Whaffle, you mentioned a shipment going to a place called Croanie. What are they getting?" Whaffle blinked. "You're he said. "Properly speaking, equipment grants are the sole concern of the Motorized Equipment Depot, Division of Loans and Exchanges." He pursed his lips. "However, I suppose there's no harm in telling you. They'll be receiving heavy mining equipment." by Keith Leu mer "Drill rigs, that sort of thing ?" "Strip mining gear." Whaffle took a slip of paper from a breast pocket, blinked at it. "Bolo Model WVI tractors, "Forgivemy curiosity, Mr. Whaffle. It's just that Croanie cropped up earlier today. It seems she holds a mortgage on some vineyards over on -- " fair, sir," Whaffle cut in. "I have sufficient problems as business." "Speaking of tractors," another man put in, "we over at the Special Committee for Rehabilitation and Overhaul of Under-developed N a t i o n s' General Economies have been trying for months to get a request for mining equipment the scene," Whaffle said. "First come, first served. He strode off, briefcase under his arm. "That's the trouble with peaceful worlds," the said. "Boge is a troublemaker, so every agency in the Corps is out to pacify her. While my chance to tnake a record -- that is, assist peaceloving d'Land -- comes to naught." He shook his head. "What kind of university do they have on d'Land ?" asked Retief. "We're sending them two thousand exchange students. It must be quite an institution." "University? D'Land has one under-endowed technical college." "Will all the exchange students be studying at the Technical College?" "Two thousand students? Hah! Two hundred students would overtax the facilities of the college." "I wonder if the Bogans know that?" "The Bogans? Why, most of d'Land's difficulties are due to the unwise trade agreement she entered into with Boge. Two thousand students indeed!" He snorted and walked away. fice to pick up a short cape, then rode the elevator to the roof of the #-story Corps HQ building and hailed a cab to the port. The Bogan students had arrived early. Retief saw them lined up on the ramp waiting to go through customs. It would be half an hour before they were cleared through. He turned into the bar and ordered a beer. A tall young fellow bn the next stool raised his glass. "Happy days," he said. "And nights to match." "You said it," He gulped half his beer. "My name's Karsh. Mr. Karsh. Yep, Mr. Karsh. Boy, this is a drag, sitting around this place waitmg... "You meeting somebody?" "Yeah. Bunch of babies. Kids. How they expect -- Never mind. Have one on me." "Thanks. You a Scoutmaster?" "I'll tell you what I am. I'm a cradle-robber. You know -- " he turned to Retief -- "not one of those kids is over eighteen." He hiccupped. "Students, you know. Never saw a student with a beard, did you?" "Lots of times. You're meeting the students, are you?" The young fellow blinked at Retief. "Oh, you know about it, huh?" Karsh finished his beer, ordered another. "I came on ahead. Sort of an advance guard for the kids. I trained 'em myself. Treated it like a game, but they can handle a act under pressure. If I had my old platoon -- " He looked at his beer glass, pushed it back. "Had enough," he said. "So long, friend. Or are you coming along?" Retief nodded. "Might as well." A T the exit to the Customs enclosure, Retief watched as the first of the Bogan students came through, caught sight of Karsh and snapped to attention, his chest out. "Drop that, mister," Karsh snapped. "Is that any way for a student to act?" The youth, a round-faced lad with broad shoulders, grinned. "Heck, no," he said. "Say, uh, Mr. Karsh, are we gonna get to go to town? We fellas were thinking -- " "You were, hah? You act like a bunch of school kids! I mean... no! Now line up!" "We have quarters ready for the students," Retief said. "If you'd like to bring them around to the west side, I have a couple of copters laid on." "Thank s," said Karsh. "They'll stay here until takeoff time. Can't have the little dears wandering around loose. Might get ideas about going over the hill." He hiccupped. "I mean they might play hookey." "We ve scheduled your reembarkation for noon tomorets and a dinner." "Sorry," Karsh said. "As soon as the baggage gets here, we're off." He hiccupped again. "Can't travel without our baggage, y'know." "Suit y o u r s e I f," Retief said. "Where's the baggage now?" "Coming in aboard a Croanie lighter." "Maybe you'd like to arrange for a meal for the students here." by Keith Laumer "Sure," Karsh said. "That's a good idea. Why don't you join us?" Karsh winked. "And bring a few beers." "Not this time," Retief said. He watched the students, still emerging from Customs. "They seem to be all boys," he commented. "No female students?" "Maybe later," Karsh said. "You know, after we see how the first bunch is received." fice, Retief buzzed Miss Furkle. "Do you know the name of the institution these Bogan students are bound for?" "Why, the University at d'Land, of cotirse." "Would that be the Technical College?" Miss Furkle's mouth puckered. "I'm sure I've never pried into these details." "Where does doing your job stop and prying begin, Miss Furkle?" Retief said. "Personally, I'm curious as to just what it is these students are travelling so far to study -- at Corps expense." "Mr. Magnan never -- " "For the present. Miss Furkle, Mr. Magnan is vacationing. That leaves me with the question of two thousand young male students headed for a world with no classrooms for them...a world in need of tractors. 'But the tractors are on their way to Croanie, a world under obligation to Boge. And Croanie holds a mortgage on the best grape acreage on Lovenbroy." "Well!" Miss Furkle snapped, small eyes glaring under unplucked brows. "I hope you're not questioning Mr. Magnan's wisdom!" "About Mr. Magnan's wisdom there can be no question," Retief said. "But never mind. I'd like you to look up an item for me. How many tractors will Croanie be getting gram?" said. "Mr. Magnan always -- " "I'm sure he did. Let me know about the tractors as soon as you can." disappeared from the screen. Retief left the office, descended forty-one stories, followed a corridor to the Corps Library. In the stacks he thumbed through catalogues, pored over indices. "Can I help you?" someone chirped. A tiny librarian stood at his elbow. "Thank you, ma'am," Retief said. "I'm looking for information on a mining rig. A Bolo model WV tractor." "You won't find it in the industrial section," the librarian said. "Come along." Retief followed her along the stacks to a well-lit section lettered tape from the shelf, plugged it into the viewer, flipped through and stopped at a squat armored vehicle. f mMm m llJj ifdlSoi "That's the model WV," she said. "It's what is known as a continental siege unit. It carries four men, with a halfmegatonsecond firepower." "There must be an error somewhere," Retief said. "The Bolo model I want is a tractor. Model WV M-l -- " "Oh, the modification was the addition of a bulldozer blade for demolition work. That must be what confused you." "Probably -- among other things. Thank you." Miss Furkle was waiting at the office. "I have the information you wanted," she said. "I've had it for over ten minutes. I was under the impression you needed it urgently, and I went to great lengths -- " "Sure," Retief said. "Shoot. How many tractors?" "Five hundred." "Are you sure?" Miss Furkle's chins quivered. "Well! If you feel I'm incompetent -- " "Just questioning the possibility of a mistake, Miss Furkle. Five hundred tractors is a lot of equipment." "Was there anything further?" Miss Furkle inquired frigidly. "I sincerely hope not," Retief said. Ill padded chair with power swivel and hipu-matic contour, Retief leafed through a He paused at a page headed Industry. Still reading, he opened the desk drawer, took out the two bottles of Bacchus wine and two glasses. He poured an inch of wine into each and sipped the black wine meditatively. It would be a pity, he reflected, if anything should interfere with the production of such vintages... Half an hour later he laid the folder aside, keyed the phone and put through a call to the Croanie Legation. He asked for the Commercial Attache. "Retief here, Corps HQ," he said airily. "About the tractors. I'm wondering if there's been a slip up. My records show we're shipping five hundred units... "That's correct. Five hundred." Retief waited. "Ah... are you there, Retief?" "I'm still here And I'm still wondering about the five hundred tractors." "It's perfectly in order. I thought if was all settled. Mr. Whaffle -- " "One unit would require a good-sized plant to handle its output," Retief said. "Now Croanie subsists on her fisheries. She has perhaps half a dozen pint-sized processing plants. Maybe, in a bind, they could handle the ore ten WV's could scrape up... if Croanie had any ore. It doesn't. By the way, isn't a WV a poor choice, as a mining outfit? I should think -- " "See here, Retief! Why all this interest in a few surplus tractors? And in any event, what business is it of yours how we plan to use the equipment? That's an internal affair of my government. Mr. W baffle -- " 'Tm not Mr. Whaffle. What are you going to do with the other four hundred and ninety tractors?" "I understood the grant was to be vith no strings attached !" "I know it's bad manners to ask questions. It's an old diplomatic tradition that any time you can get anybody to accept anything as a gift, you've scored points in the game. But if Croanie has some scheme cooking -- " tief. It's a mere business transaction." "What kind of business do you do with a Bolo WV? With or without a blade attached, it's what's known as a continental siege unit." "Great Heavens, Retief! Don't jump to conclusions! Would you have us branded as warmongers? Frankly -- is this a closed line?" "Certainly. You may speak freely." "The tractors are for transshipment. We've gotten ourselves into a difficult situation, b a I a n c e-of-paymentswise. This is an accommodation to a group with which we have ratherstrong business ties." "I understand you hold a mortgage on the best land on Lovenbroy," Retief said. "Any connection?" "Why...ah...no. Of course not, ha ha." "Who gets the tractors eventually?" "Retief, this is unwarranted interference !" "Who gets them?" "They happen to be going to Lovenbroy. But I scarcely see -- " "And who's the friend you're helping out with an unauthorized transshipment of grant material?" "Why... ah... I've been working with a Mr. Gulver, a Bogan representative." "And when will they be shipped ?" "Why, they went out a week ago. They'll be half way there by now. But look here, Retief, this isn't what you're thinking !" "How do you know what I'm thinking? I don't know myself." Retief rang off, buzzed the secretary. "Miss Furkle, I'd like to be notified immediately of any new applications that might come in from the Bogan Consulate for placement of students." by Keith Laumer "Well, it happens, by coincidence, that I have an application here now. Mr. Gulver of the Consulate brought it in." "Is Mr. Gulver in the office? I'd like to see him." "I'll ask him if he has time." "Great. Thanks." It was half a minute before a thicknecked red-faced man in a tight hat walked in. He wore an old-fashioned suit, a drab shirt, shiny shoes with round toes and an ill-tempered expression.   he barked. "I understood in my discussions with the other...ah... c i v i I i a n there'd be no further need for these irritating conferences." "I've just learned you're placing more students abroad, Mr. Gulver. How many this time?" "Two thousand." "And where will they be going?" "Croanie. It's all in the application form I've handed in. Your job is to provide transportation." "Will there be any other students embarking this season?" "Why...perhaps. That's Boge's b u s i n e s s." Gulver looked at Retief with pursed lips. "As a matter of fact, we had in mind dispatching another two thousand to Featherweight." "Another under-populated world -- and in the same cluster, I believe," Retief said. "Your people must be unusually interested in that region of space." "If that's all you wanted to know, I'll be on my way. I have matters of importance to see to." After Gulver left, Retief called Miss Furkle in. "I'd like to have a break-out of all the student movements that have been planned under the present program," he said. "And see if you can get a has been shipping latefy." M iss Furkle compressed her lips. "If Mr. Magnan were here, I'm sure he wouldn't dream of interfering in the work of other departments. I...overheard your conversation with the gentleman from the Croanie Legation -- " "The lists, Miss Furkle." "I'm not accustomed." Miss Furkle said, "to intruding in matters outside our interest cluster." "That's worse than listening in on phone conversations, eh? But never mind. I need the information, Miss Furkle." "Loyalty to my Chief -- " "Loyalty to your pay-check should send you scuttling for the material I've asked for," Retief said. "I'm taking full responsibility. 'Now scat." The buzzer sounded. Retief Retief speaking..." Arapoulous's brown face appeared on the desk screen. "How-do, Retief. Okay if I come up?" "Sure, Hank. I want to talk to you." In the office, Arapoulous took a chair. "Sorry if I'm rushing you, Retief," he said. "But have you got anything for me?" Retief waved at the wine bottles. "What do you know about Croanie?" "Croanie? Not much of a place. Mostly ocean. All right if you like fish, I guess. We import our seafood from there. Nice prawns in monsoon time. Over a foot long." "You on good terms with them ?" "Sure, I guess so. Course, they're pretty thick with Boge." "So?" "Didn't I tell you? Boge was the bunch that tried to take us over here a dozen years back. They'd' ve made it too, if they hadn't had a lot of bad luck. Their armor went in the drink, and without armor thev're easy game." M iss Furkle buzzed. "T have your lists," she said shortly. "Bring them in, please." nnHE secretary placed the papers on the desk. Arapoulous caught her eye and grinned. She sniffed and marched from the room. "What that gal needs is a slippery time in the grape mash," Arapoulous observed Retief thumbed through the papers, pausing to read from time to time. He finished and looked at Arapoulous. "How many men do you need for the harvest, Hank?" Retief inquired. Arapoulous sniffed his wine glass and looked thoughtful. "A hundred would help," he said. "A thousand would be better. Cheers." "What would you say to two thousand?" "Two thousand? Retief, you're not fooling?" "I hope not." He picked up the phone, called the Port Authority, asked for the dispatch clerk. "Hello, Jim. Say, I have a favor to ask of you. You know that contingent of Bogan students. They're traveltransports. I'm interested in the baggage that goes with the students Has it arrived yet? Okay, I'll wait." Jim came back to the phone. "Yeah, Retief, it's here. Just arrived. But there's a funny thing. It's not consigned to d'Land. It's ticketed clear through to Lovenbroy." "Listen, Jim," Retief said. "I want you to go over to the warehouse and take a look at that baggage for me." Retief waited while the dispatch clerk carried out the errand. The level in the two bottles had gone down an by Keith Laumer inch when Jim returned to the phone. "Hey, I took a look at that baggage, Retief. Something funny going on. Guns. #mm blasters, power pistols -- " "It's okay, Jim. Nothing to worry about. Just a mix-up. Now, Jim, I'm going to ask you to do something more for me. I'm covering for a friend. It seems he slipped up. I wouldn't want word to get out, you understand. I'll send along a written change order in the morning that will cover you officially. Meanwhile, here's what I want you to do..." Retief gave instructions, then rang off and turned to Arapoulous. "As soon as I get off a coubetter get down to the port, Hank. I think I'd like to see the students off personally." IV entered the Departures enclosure at the port. "What's going on here?" he demanded. "There's some funny business with my baggage consignment. They won't let me see Itl I've got a feeling it's not being loaded." "You'd better hurry, Mr Karsh , # n Retief saidYou're scheduled to Mast off in less than an hour. Are the students all loaded!" "Yes, blast you! What about my baggage? Those vessels aren't moving without it !" "No need to get so upset about a few toothbrushes, is there, Mr. Karsh?" Retief said blandly. "Still, if you're worried -- " He turned to Arapoulous. "Hank, why don't you walk Mr. Karsh over to the warehouse and...ah...take care of him?" "I know just how to handle it," Arapoulous said. The dispatch clerk came up to Retief. "I caught the tractor equip m e n t," he said. "Funny kind of mistake, but it's okay now. They're being off-loaded at d'Land. I talked to the traffic controller there. He said they weren't looking for any students." "The labels got switched, Jim. The students go where the baggage was consigned. Too bad about the mistake, but the Armaments Office will have a man along in a little while to dispose of the guns. Keep an eye out for the luggage. No telling where it's gotten to." "Here !" a hoarse voice yelled. Retief turned. A disheveled figure in a tight hat was crossing the enclosure, arms waving. "Hi there, Mr. Gulver," Retief called. "How's Boge's business coming along?" "Piracy #" Gulver blurted as he came up to Retief, puffing hard. "You've got a hand In this, I don't doubt! Where's that Magnan fellow?" "What seems to be the problem?" Retief said. "Hold those transports ! I've just been notified that the baggage shipment has been impounded. I'll remind you, that shipment enjoys diplomatic free entry!" "Who told you it was impounded?" "Never mind! I have my sources !" Two tall men buttoned into gray tunics came up. "Are said. "That's right." "What about my baggage!" Culver cut in. "And I'm warning you, if those ships lift without -- " "These gentlemen are from the Armaments Control Commission," Retief said. "Would you like to come a I 'mg and claim your baggage, Mr. Quiver ?" "From where? I -- " Gulver turned two shades redder about the ears. "A.rnwm ots?" "The only shipment I've held up seems to be somebody's arsenal," Relief said. "Now if you cla # m this is your ba gg gage... "Why, impossible," Gulvev said in a s t r a i n e d voice. "Armaments? R'diculous. There's been an rror... A T the baggage wrol'oie Gulver looked, ghur I  at the opened cases of guns. "No, of course not," he said dully. "Not my baggage. Not my baggage at all." Arapoulous appeared, supporting the stumbling figure of Mr. Karsh. "What -- what's this?" Gulver spluttered. "Karsh? What's haopened?" "He had a little fall. He'll be okay," Arapoulous said. "You'd better help him to the ship," Retief said. "It's ready to lift. We wouldn't want him to miss it." "Leave him to me!" Gulver snapped, his eyes slashing at Karsh. "I'll see he's dealt with." "I couldn't think of it," Retief said. "He's a guest of the Corps, you know. We'll see him safely aboard." Gulver turned, signaled frantically. Three heavy-set men in identical drab suits detached themselves from the wall, crossed to the group. "Take this man," Gulver snapped, indicating Karsh, who looked at him dazedly, reached up to rub his head. "We take our hospitality seriously," Retief said. "We'll see him aboard the vessel." Gulver opened his mouth. "I know you feel bad about finding guns instead of school books in your luggage," Retief said, looking Gulver in the eye. "You'll be busy straightening oirt the details of the mix-up. You'll want to avoid further complications." "Ah. Ulp. Yes," Gulver by Keith Laumer said. He appeared unhappy. Arapoulous went on to the passenger conveyor, turned to wave. "Your man -- he's g o i n g too? M Gulver blurted. "He's not our man, properly speaking' Retief said. "He lives on Lovenbroy." "Lovenbroy?" Gulver choked. "But...the... I... # "I know you said the students were bound for d'Land," Retief said. "But I guess that was just another aspect of the general confusion. The course plugged into the navigators was to Lovenbroy. You'll be glad to know they're still headed there -- even without the baggage." "P e r h a p s," Gulver said grimly, "perhaps they'll manage without it." "By the way," Retief said. "There was another funny mix-up. There were some tractors -- for industrial use, you'll recall. I believe you cooperated with Croanie in arranging the grant through ously consigned to Lovenbroy, a purely agricultural world. I saved you some embarrassment, I trust, Mr. Gulver, by arranging to have them offloaded at d'Land." "D'Land! You've put the bitterest enemies!" "But they're only tractors, Mr. Gulver. Peaceful devices. Isn't that correct?" "That's...correct." Gulver sagged. Then he snapped erect. "Hold the ships!" he yelled. "I'm canceling ths student exchange -- " His voice was drowned by the rumble as the first of the monster transports rose from the launch pit, followed a moment later by the second, Retief watched them out of sight, then turned to Gulver. "They're off," he said. "Let's hope they get a liberal education." V deep grass by a stream, eating grapes. A tall figure appeared on the knoll above him and waved. "Retief!" Hank Arapoulous bounded down the slope and embraced Retief, slapping him on the back. "I heard you were here -- and I've got news for you. You won the final day's picking competition. Over two hundred bushels! That's a record !" "Let's get on over to the garden. Sounds like the celebration's about to start." In the flower-crowded park among the stripped vines, Retief and Arapoulous made their way to a laden table under the lanterns. A tall girl dressed in loose white, and with long golden hair, came up to Arapoulous. "Delinda, this is Retief -- today's winner. And he's also the fellow that got those workers for us." Delinda smiled at Retief. taa Tve heard about you, Mr. unhappy with me. It seems Retief. We weren't sure about I'm not ready for important the boys at first. Two thouassignments at Departmental sand Bogans, and all confused level. I was shipped off here about their baggage that went to the boondocks to get a litastray. But they seemed to tie more experience." like the picking." She smiled "Delinda, look after Reagain. tief," said Arapoulous. # T#I "That's not all. Our gals see you later. I've got to see liked the boys," Hank said, to the wine judging." He dis"Even Bogans aren't so bad, appeared in the crowd, minus their irons. A lot of "Congratulations on win'em will be staying on. But ning the day," said Delinda. how come you didn't tell me "I noticed you at work. You you were coming, Retief? I'd were wonderful. I'm glad have laid on some kind of big you're going to have the welcome." prize." "I liked the welcome I got. "Thanks. I noticed you too, And I didn't have much noflitting around in that white tice. Mr. Magnan was a little nightie of yours. But why upset when he got back. It weren't you picking grapes seems I exceeded my authorwith the rest of us?" ity." "I had a special assignArapoulous laughed. "I had ment." a feeling you were wheeling "Too bad. You should have pretty free, Retief. I hope had a chance at the prize." you didn't get into any trouDelinda took Retief's hand, ble over it." "I vouldn't have anyway," "No trouble," Retief said, she said. "I'm the prize."    A Complete Short Novel of Distant Stars by Jack Vance Also stories, articles and features by George O. Smith, Frederik.Pohl, Jim Harmon, Willy Ley, Jack Sharkey and many bv Keith Laumer IF  Fmiure The place where readers and editor meet... Dear Editor: Just read Jots and Tittles. You're one up on me -- I don't even know what a jot is. Having just come into repossession of part of my #-# collection of SF magazines (#c having proceeded to plow into them voraciously) I am in a better position than the average younger reader to understand the change that has taken place. And I can understand why no one wants a letter column any more. Simply -- what for? To read that Joe Blow, Irma Grinkle and Ichabod Schmerdlikov all think you publish a pretty good magazine? Who needs it? This is Hue #c Cry? No, this is plain old-fashioned egoboo, interesting to you but not to the readers. If that's all that's in the mailbag, then best lay Hue #c Cry to rest. However -- now we push up our sleeves and go to work -- I gather that you'd rather resurrect the body. Well, come to think of it, I can't tell you how to do that, but I can tell it him her. #. Lame or pedantic editorials. No, yours wasn't this issue. And yes, I realize how difficult it becomes month after month. I'm sure you read all the other SF magazines. How many editorials are an end in themselves? They pick (or should I say pick on?) a subject and then talk it to death. By the time the editor has finished it, it's a complete classroom lecture, with no need for a questionand-answer period. Or how many editorial piddle through a page or so while the editor mealy-mouths a few trite comments on this month's issue? A good healthy percentage of the letters in the lettercols of the "good old days" dealt with the "bright, sparkling" (your words, not mine) editorials. #. Indifferent answers to letters. Yes, some of yours fall into this category. Ain't nobody can answer a fan like Ray Palmer and Sam -- Mines or Merwin? I'd have to look it up. Anyway, they didn't pass the buck. And they weren't above telling some nut to go soak his head in formaldehyde. Which brings us to # . Your gray hairs are showing. Dad. Ten to twenty years ago you were all roughly in the same age bracket. A twenty-year-old fan could write to a twenty-five-year-old editor as he would to an old pal. No worries about whether the letters sounded immature. "This Is my old buddy, Joe. I'm gonna tell him that story stank. His judgment was way off on that one." Now Dad, where are we going to dig up a kid who'll tell FREDjERlK P#HL ! ! ! that his judgment was off and he should go soak his head? Nobody's gonna take a poke at dear old Dad while he's sittin' on the porch in his rockin' chair. All right, all right, cease and desist, Dad. I can see you've risen from the chair; sow come down off the porch and take a poke at me. Don't look to the other youngsters for help. Can you take it, Dad? You can call me names, too. But the one I like best is -- (Name omitted; see below) Dear Editor : If you publish my letter of the #th, please, just use my initials. "P.C"  You want free-swinging answers? But sometimes the freest-swinging comment a fellow can make is just to say -- no comment! Editor .    Dear Editor: Ho, "bright sparkling letters" the man wants. But DearMisterEditorSir, it's been so long since we've had a chance to sparkle and we're so badly out of practice. Part of the trouble is that while the editors have not minded when the readers sharpened their wits against one another they took a certain degree of exception to having the mental fang of said readers whet ted against their magazines. Does this mean that the humble reader can occasionally wittily pan some portion of your magazine and have his golden words see the light of day? If so, the good ol' days may well return again. Pat Scott Box #I Anacortes, Washington  Sure. Say what you like -- just so it's interesting. (And printable.) If you touch us on the raw we won't object in the least. All we'll do, we'll reach out and whomp you on the head with the rung of this here rocking chair. Editor .    Dear Editor: The impossible happened. If got a letter column. This must have sparked something, for immediately it began to change for the better. Book reviews would be really, and I mean really , welcomed back again. Roger Cox co Lt. Col. B.C., Cox Hq. Frankfurt Mil. Dist.    Dear Editor: I'm afraid I have nothing but compliments for you this month, but I keep telling myself that they can't keep up the good work at Digest Publications much longer. Old Fred will slip sometime, and then I'll be able to lower the boom. Really your stories get better all the time and wonder-wise you've got them all beat. You've recaptured some of the spirit of good ol' Planet, and that is surely quite a feat. (You have even got them beaten in one respect: Your illos are even worse than theirs used to be.) Oh, incidentally, why don't you print street addresses in HC? Guess I'll sign off with a little poetry (?) this month: There once was an editor moved His great magazine to improve. And since Fred took over ' s been a mover, So, guys, let's stay in the groove ! Dale E. Randles, Jr. # Gretchen Road Chula Vista, California    Dear Editor: I liked the drawing of Retief and the Flap-jacks in the current If. How about some stories from Poul Anderson? I don't like the heading of the cover. I wish you would put If in big letters...but keep up the good work. Jimmy Porter Springfield, Tennessee  Anderson's coming up next month. Cover's changed this month. Anything else you want, Jimmy? Editor .    Dear Editor: The thing that strikes me the most about If is the poor reproduction. 'Fess up, it's lousy. The covers have been quite poorly reproduced, though the pictures themselves were okay. Rating the last three Ifs, in eachish I put Laumer's story in first place. I really like Relief. Keep him as a regular feature. Reader Sarant is too demanding. Those writers he listed don't write much any more. Heinlein's on his list -- Galaxy or . Douglas Mackey # North Main Hutchinson, Kansas  Better drag out the old trampoline. You have about sixty days to practice flipping before the next issue hits the stands. Editor .    Dear Editor: Where are the new authors, you ask. Let me tell you. One of the fan clubs ran a fiction contest for amateurs this year. Cash prizes, almost a hundred bucks. (Some of us care enough about stf to put up our own money to improve the state of the art.) There were fifty entries, mostly from organized fandom. Here is what happened: About half trapped in the dead end of short-shorts with surprise endings. Seventy per cent don't know what a story is. (Specifically: An incident is not a story, neither is a series of incidents without continuity between them.) Some could write characterization (I recall with gusto and glee a #-year-old girl who did it with dialogue), but what good are characters without a story? Some have a rare gift for communicating mood and feelings, but all too often overdo it, as though they had just discovered the dictionary. In simple words, then, they fall prey to all the problems of beginning authors. They can do part of it, but not all. A dead loss? Don't be silly, there were about ten that came out, by the scoring system used, as "the type written by an amateur close to selling, or by a pro who bangs out a dud under the influence of a hangover." A flaw or two, but not too many. There were more, four of them in fact (in my own not so modest opinion as preliminary judge -- punishment for thinking of the idea) which came pretty close to this month's issue of , except for Leiber, of course. But, and a Jupiter size "but" it is, too, two were less than # words, and who buys those unless the author's name is Fred Brown? Conclusions? You bet, and this is likely to cause a shriek of agony from the hard-hearted editor. A question: If a new writer is overjoyed at comment and criticism from just another amateur, what wouldn't they give for a few words from an editor scribbled on the back of the rejection slip? Ah, what a dream. You could gain a place in the amateur writers' hall of fame for the price of this little time. ("Time? What's that?" he says with a sigh.) Just tell them a little direction, and yo might find all sorts of new writers. Alas, what a job, finding tame pro to do this for you. Will you shed a tear? Clayton Hamlin # Earle Avenue Bangor, Maine We do buy stories from fans -- there are around a dozen in inventory right now. We do buy stories under # words -- and not only from Fred Brown -- provided they are stories. (That's hard to do.) And we cant write personal notes with all, or even very many, rejected manuscripts. It isn't really because we're hard-hearted, or lazy either. Figure it out ypurself. We get something around # manuscripts a year. Multiply that by, say, # minutes each -- or whatever you think would be necessary to write a note on each one. (And we'll let you in on a little secret: It is not merely the time spent to write one note, but the time spent on the follow-up correspondence that inevitably results, that really begins to hurt.) Still, there's something in what you say, and you've given us an idea. Starting now,' is going to make it a point to publish at least one first story in each issue. How long we ! ll keep it up is up to you; at least a year or so, we hope forever. This isn't a contest; no prizes; no entry blanks; they'll be considered just as any other story is considered and paid for in the same way. But -- this month we present the first sale made by Joseph Green, Once Around Arctur us. (He has made several since, by the way.) Next issue, The Man Who Flew by Charles B. Cunningham, Jr. Etc. So...let's see what happens next. And for another slant on the same problem, see the next letter. Editor .    Dear Editor: In order to search out new fan writing talent, and to inspire a renewed interest in the field of writing science fiction, the publisher of Inertia is sponsoring The First Annual Phann Fiction Contest. There will be three grand prizes, all of which are to receive special awards, plus having the chance for professional publication. For details, please write me. B. Joseph Fekete,, jr. # Center Ridge Road Apartment rr# North Ridgeville, Ohio  If and Galaxy neither participate in nor sponsor this contest, but we will consider prize-winning stories for possible publication. Editor.    Dear Editor: With that editorial you threw your readers quite a curve. The trouble is, the entire problem is more than the prevention of the war andor its possibility. The problem fully stated has two factors: how can we prevent a war of the greatest magnitude? I imagine you'll get a number of Answers based on the solution of the first factor, the prevention of the war. But it is not the nature of the human race to fit itself into any one set of characteristics, and for this reason you can't eliminate war or the possibility of war. Nor can you expect men to use less than their most potent weapons. Accepting this as so, we will consider the second factor. What do I mean by magnitudes of disaster? Well, assume that you are a starving man. If you have only one egg and lose it, you'll die, but if you have two eggs and lose one, you'll still live. In both cases the disaster is the same; the loss of an egg. The decisive and only difference lies in the per cent of the whole the loss represents. The magnitude of disaster depends upon the per cent of the whole lost; a greater per cent means a greater magnitude, a lesser per cent, a lesser magnitude. All this can be applied to worlds. If Earth is destroyed while it is the only home of mankind, it is the End. Its destruction becomes an event of much less magnitude when it is only one of many human inhabited worlds. Through the conquest of space we will soon be making our mark on other planets and when we do we'll be solving the problem. In less years than you have fingers we will no longer have to worry about total destruction. Keeping in mind the idea that we will not be able to prevent war, the conquest of space gives us further opportunity to deduce its magnitude beyond providing us with more eggs. When (not if) the next war is fought it may be good strategic and tactical policy to do most of the fighting in space, for I am fairly certain that no planet can stand a determined attack from space. One's best chances for defense will lie in stopping the enemy before they arrive. Moreover, a space fleet should be able to minimize the amount of devastation a nation can perpetrate on another of the same planet. All in all, now' that we're shopping for Answers, I think the conquest of space is our best, if not our only, buy. Besides, we don't even have to sell anybody -- it's already being carried out! J. R. Parks #I #th Ave. Rochelle, #. If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers-challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohi, Davidson, Simak, Bloch, Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Send me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Address You can paint an original picture like this, using real artists' oil paints... the .  a raae mar  (overlay) way your side, this entirely new and original method shows I you in actual size and color how and what to do. You compare your progress, step-by-step, with the easy : before you realize it, you are actually painting. A choice of subjects available -- get yours now -- Price includes VisAon i v Lens, #x# inch Art M  Board, # tubes Oil ylrb Paint, Oil, Turpentine, sb # Brushes, # page In struction Book. Montgomery Ward, Sears, Roebuck  Co. and leading department stores, coast to coast. If your local stores do not have it, ask them to order an assortment. Address inquiries to: Vis-a-lens, Inc. # E. Bainbridge St., Elizabethtown, Penna. WORLDS OF If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers -- challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohl, Davidson, Simak, Bloch,' Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Send me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Name Address Use coupon or order by letter if you wish worlds of Vol. #, Number # All Stories New science fiction Sol Cohen, Publisher Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Podkayne of Mars by Robert A , Heinlein # The Desert and the Stars by Keith Laumer # The Critique of Impure Reason by Poul Anderson # The Real Thing by Albert Teichner # The Reluctant Immortals by David R, Bunch # The Man Who Flew by Charles D, Cunningham, Jr, # Too Many Eggs by Kris Neville #I The Dragon Slayers by Frank Santa # Most Personal # The Popoff by Theodore Sturgeon # Hue and Cry by The Readers # Cover by Virgil Finlay from Podkayne of Mars Next issue ( January ) on sale November #th IF published bi-monthly by Digest Productions Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York" #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States. Canada, Mexico, South and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Digest Productions Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the IT. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N.  -- if you want to keep your copy of Galaxy intact for permanent possession! Why mutilate a good thing? But, by the same token... if you're devote enough to want to keep your copies in mint condition, you ought to subscribe You really ought to. For one thing, you get your copies earlier. For another, you'ri sure you'll get them! Sometimes newsstands run out -- the mail never does (And you can just put your name and address on a plain sheet of pape and mail it to us, at the address below. We'll know what you mean., provided you enclose your check!) In the past few years Galaxy has published the finest stories by the finest writers in the field Bester, Heinlein, Pohl, Asimov, Sturgeon, Leiber and nearly everyone else. In the next few years it will go right on, with stories that are just as good... or better. Don't miss any issue of Galaxy. You can make sure you won't. Just subcribc today. (lf, on the other hand, your habit is to read them once and go on to something new -- please -- feel free to use the coupon! It's for your convenience, not ours.) few ?  Enter my subscription for the New Giant #-page Galaxy per # ,ssues foreign postoge) (U. S. Edition only) for: # Issues  # # Issues  # # Issues  # State. JP # Editorial T heodore sturgeon, your Feature Editor, deposes and says: I seize this space for my own and personal asons, writing before the events at the Pick-Congress in Chicago on Labor Day, where the World Science Fiction Convention has invited me to be Guest of Honor. Certain of these sentiments will be expressed in my speech, but it is my great desire to unload them now, suffused with anticipation. Now I know that the most acceptable public posture is a politician's mixture of humility with a confident, "well, of course." There is something mildly obscene about someone who publicly gloats (unless he's an Asimov, and who can possibly be an Asimov?)... and a for humility, it's usually phoney and necessary. When Earl Kemp called me and told me his Committee had chosen me, I said, "I have waited twenty-three years for this phoe call." I repeat that here. I am grateful and I am proud, and I don't think I am altogether humble. The Good Book says "Love thy neighbor as thyself." I believe that most people follow this precept. I believe further that most people don't like themselves very much -- which accounts for the rather frightening lack of love in the world. Low self-esteem takes a frightening toll. A guy who, at base, thinks little of his personal worth, meets a girl who thinks quite as little of hers. In the springtime of their association, the sap runs strong and warm, and she suddcnly tells him he is a good dancer. He, startled, responds with the statement that she has beautiful eyes. Something happens then, something which is the surrogate of love: it feels like it, tastes and sounds like it. On each other's compliments, they build a rosy pyramid of mutual esteem -- and no one realizes that it is based on the fact that each of them has a low opinion of himself. all the time, in many areas. There is a reason for this epidemic. Moral teachings from many sources have long urged us on in the pursuit of guilt. If you are ordered to take a good look at yourself, it's defects you think of first. If ycxur friend says to you, "Can I be frank?" you don't brace yourself for anything nice. We have, therefore, very largely disqualified ourselves from the right, and even the ability, to make honest selfappraisals, and inventory the good. It oays to learn this knack. It helps at the times when all the world's agin you -- you know the world is mistaken -- you know it. And it helps, too, when all the world's on your side, when, for example, someone calls you up and asks you to be Guest of Honor at the World Science Fiction Convention. I know why world science fiction, in the person of Earl Kemp, called me up. It's because I have a great facility with words, an odd kind of detachment, and an unabashed way of putting them together. These things all put into one word make a thing called Talent. A better word for it is Gift. Now there are some people who are six foot six and go around bragging about it all the time. There are few things more foolish. I would be foolish to brag about m gift. I was born with it ; I didn't create it and I didn't earn it. It's this gift which is being hc.iored at the Convention, not me, and I honor it too. If this be humility, make the most of it. Before the Convention, I have one more thing to say; and it has to do with science fiction. We're still trying to define sf, and I guess we always will. The reason that it's so hard, in these speciali ! ng times, to say what sf is about is that it isn't about anything -- it's about everything. It begins at the most remote horizons of any other form of expression except, possibly, poetry. As such, it is big enough for a talent -- a gift -- like mine. Sf has been the only place for it, and what I'm most grateful for is that sf coexisted with its birth and growth. The Gift knows where it wants to be. It is at home by Theodore Sturgeon be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of then teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Withia its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe L.B.W. ! Scribe L.B.W. i San Jose, California ,  Please send me the free hooV.,The Mastery I i of Life, which explains how I may learn to  i use my faculties and powers of mind. a I Name i i  Address ' ! City  ZJfie Rosicrucians The first Podkayne was a Martian and a saint. The second Podkayne was not -- precisely -- either one! A LL my life I've wanted to go to Earth. Not to live, of course -- just to see it. As everybody knows, Terra is a wonderful place to visit but not to live. Not truly suited to human habitation. Personally, V m  not convinced that the human race originated on Earth. I mean to say, how much reliance should you place on the evidence of a few pounds of old bones plus the opinions of anthropologists who usually contradict each other anyhow when what you are being asked to swallow so obviously flies in the face of all common sense? Think it through. The surface acceleration of Terra is clearly too great for the human structure, it is known to result in flat feet and hernias and heart trouble. The incident solar radiation on Terra will knock down dead an unprotected human in an apnazingly short time -- and do you know of any other organism which has to be artificially protected from what is alleged to be its own natural environment in order to stay alive? As to Terran ecology -- Never mind. We humans just couldn't have originated on Earth. Nor (I admit) on Mars, for that matter -- although Mars is certainly as near ideal as you can find in this planetary system today. Possibly the Missing Planet was our first' home -- even though I think of Mars as "home" and will always want to return to it no matter how far I travel in later years... and I intend to travel a long, long way. But I do want to visit Earth as a starter, not only to see people manage to live almost sitting in each others' laps (less than half of the land area of Terra is even marginally habitable) but mostly to see oceans... from a safe distance. Oceans are not only fantastically unlikely but to me the very thought of them is terrifying. All that unimaginable amount of water, unconfined. And so deep that if you fell into it, it would be over your head, incredible! But now we are going there! Perhaps I should introduce us. The Fries Family, I mean. Myself: Podkayne Fries -- "Poddy" to my friends, and we might as well start off being friendly. Adolescent female; I'm eight plus a few months, at a point in my development described by my Uncle Tom as "frying size and just short of husband high" -- a fair enough description since a female citizen of Mars may contract plenary marriage without guardian's waiver on her ninth birthday, and I stand # centimeters tall in my bare feet and mass # kilograms. "Five feet tWo and eyes of blue" my Daddy calls me, but he is a historian and romantic. But I am not romantic and would not consider even a limited marriage on my ninth birthday ; I have other plans. Not that I am opposed to marriage in due time, nor do I expect to have any trouble snagging the male of my choice. In these, memoirs I shall be . frank rather than modest because they will not be published until I am old and famous, and I will certainly revise them before then. In the meantime I am taking the precaution of writing Anglish in Martian Oldscript -- a combination which I'm sure Daddy could puzzle out, only he wouldn't do such a thing unless I invited him to. Daddy is a dear and does not snoopervize me. My brother Clark would pry, but he regards Anglish as a dead language and would never bother his head with Qldscript anyhow  book titled : Eleven Years Old: the Pre-Adolescent Adjustment Crisis in the Male, I read it, hoping that it would help me to cope with my brother. Clark is just six, but the "Eleven Years" referred to in that title are Terran years because it Was written on Earth. If you will apply the conversion factor of # to attain real years, you will see that my brother is exactly eleven of those undersized Earth years old. That book did not help me much. It talks about "cushioning the transition into the social group" -- but there is no present indication that Clark ever intends to join the human race. He is more likely to devise a way to blow up the universe just to hear the bang. Since I am responsible for him much of the time and since he has an I.Q. of # while mine is only #,' you can readily see that I need all the advantage that greater age and maturity can give me. At present my standing rule with him is: Keep your guard up and never offer hostages. Back to me. I'm colonial mongrel in ancestry, but the Swedish part is dominant in my looks, with Polynesian and Asiatic fractions adding no more than a not-unpleasing V I ; . by Robert A. Heinlein exotic flavor. My legs are long for my height,' my  waist is forty-eight centimeters and my chest is ninety-r-not all of which is rib cage, I assure you, even thqugh we old colonial families all run to hypertrophied lung development; some of it is burgeoning secondary sex characteristic. Besides that, my hair is pale blonde and wavy and I'm pretty. Not beautiful. Praxiteles would not have given me a second look. But real beauty is likely to scare a man off, or else make him quite unmanageable, whereas prettiness, properly handled, is an asset. Up till a couple of years ago I used to regret not being male (in view of my ambitions), but I at last realized how silly I was being. One might as well wish for wings. As Mother says: "One works with available .materials"... and I found that the materials available were adequate, In ffict I found that I Jike hciflg female. My hormone balance is okay and  I'm quite; well adjusted to the world, and vice versa. I'm smart enough not unnecessarily to show that I am smart; I've got a long upper lip and a short nose, and when I wrinkle my nose, and loqk baffled, a man is usually only ,too glad, to help me  especially if he is .about twice my age. There are more ways of computing a ballistic than by counting it on your fin.   i' i  'gers: I I That's me : Poddy Fries, ' ftee citizen of Mars, female. Future pilot and someday Commander of deep-space ex; ploration parties. Watch for ' me in the news. , Mother is twice as good looking as I am and much taller than I ever will be; she looks like a Valkyrie about to gallop off into the sky. She holds a system-wide license as a Master Engineer, Heavy I Construction, Surface or Free Fall, and is entitled to wear both the Hoover Medal with cluster and the Christania Order, Knight Commander, for bossing the rebuilding of Deimos and Phobos. But she's more than just the traditional hairy engineer. She has a social presence which she can switch from warmly charming to frostily intimidating at Will, she holds honorary degrees galore, and she! Ublishes popular little gerris SUch 's Design Criteria with Re ' dpect' to the Effects of Radi I at ion on the Bonding of # Pressure-Loaded Sandwich Structures. i   .  I T is because Mother is often away from home for professional reasons that I am, from time to time, the reluctant custodian of my younger brother. Still, I suppose it is good practice, for how can I ever expect to command my own ship if I can't tame a six-year-old savage? Mother says that a boss who is forced to part a man's hair with a wrench has failed at some point, so I try to control our junior nihilist without resorting to force. Besides, using force on Clark is very chancy. He masses as much as I do, and he fights dirty. It was the job Mother did on Deimos that accounts for Clark and myself. Mother was determined to meet her construction dates; and Daddy, on leave from Ares U. with a Guggenheim grant, was even more frantically determined to save every scrap of the ancient 'Martian artifacts no matter how much it delayed construction. This threw them into such intimate and bitter conflict that they got married and for a while Mother had babies. Daddy and Mother are Jack Spratt and his wife. He is interested in everything that has already happened, she is interested only in what is going to happen, especially if she herself is making it happen. ' Daddy's title is Van Loon Professor of Terrestrial History, but his real love is Martian history, especially if years ago. But do not think that Daddy is a cloistered don given only to contemplation and study. When he was even younger than I am now, he lost an arm one chilly night in the attack on the Company Offices during the Revolution -- and he can still shoot straight and fast with the hand he has left. The rest of our family is Great Uncle Tom, Daddy's father's brother. Uncle Tom is a parasite. So he says. It is true that you don't see him work much, but he was an old man before I was born. He is a Revolutionary veteran, same as Daddy, and is a Past Grand Commander of the Martian Legion and a S e n a t o r-atLarge of the Republic, but he doesn't seem to spend much time on either sort of politics, Legion or public. Instead he hangs out at the Elks Club and plays pinochle with other relics of the past. Uncle Tom is really my closest relative, for he isn't as intense as my parents, nor as busy, and will always take time to talk with me. Furthermore he has a streak of Original Sin which makes him sympathetic to my problems. He says that I have such a streak, too, much wider than his. Concerning this I reserve my opinion. That's our family and we are all going to Earth. Wups! I left out three -- the infants. But they hardly count now and it is easy to forget them. When Daddy and Mother got Population, Ecology  Genetics -- pegged them at five and by Robert A. Heinlein would have allowed them seven had they requested it, for, as you may have gathered, my parents are rather high-grade citizens even among planetary colonials all of whom are descended from, or are themselves, highly selected and drastically screened stock. But Mother told the Board that five was all that she had time for. Then she had us as fast as possible, while fidgeting at a desk job in the Bureau of Planetary Engineering. Then she popped her babies into deep-freeze as fast as she had them, all but me, since I was the first. Clark spent two years at constant entropy, else he would be almost as old as I am. (Deepfreeze time doesn't count, of course, and his official birthday is the day he was decanted.) I remember how jealous I was. Mother was just back from conditioning Juno and it didn't Seem fair to me that she would immediately start raising a baby. Uncle Tom talked me out of that, with a lot of lap sitting, and I am no longer jealous of Clark -- merely wary. S O we've got Gamma, Delta, and Epsilon in the subbasement of the creche at Marsopolis, and we'll uncork and name at least one of them as soon as we get back from Earth. Mother is thinking of revivifying Gamma and EpsiIon together and raising them as twins (they're girls) and then launch Delta, who is a boy, as soon as the girls are housebroken. Daddy says that is not fair, because Delta is entitled to be older than Epsilon by natural priority of birth date. Mother says that is mere worship of precedent and that she does wish Daddy would learn to leave his reverence for the past on the campus when he comes home in the evening. Daddy says that Mother has no sentimental feelings -- and Mother says she certainly hopes not, at least with any problem requiring rational a n a I y s i s -- and Daddy says let's be rational, then... twin older sisters would either break a boy's spirit or else spoil him rotten. Mother says that is unscientific and unfounded. Daddy says that Mother merely wants to get two chores out of the way at once -- w hereupon Mother heartily agrees and demands to know why proved production engineering principles should not be applied to domestic economy? Daddy doesn't answer this. Instead he remarks thoughtfully that he must admit that two little girls dressed just alike would be kind of cute... name them "Margret" and "Marguerite" and call them "Peg" and "Meg" -- Clark muttered to me, "Why uncork them at all? Why not just sneak down some night and open the valves and call it an accident ?" I told him to go wash out his mouth with prussic acid and not let Daddy hear him talk that way. Daddy would have walloped him properly. Daddy, although a historian, is devoted to the latest, most progressive theories of child psychology and applies them by canalizing the cortex through pain association whenever he really wants to ensure that a lesson will not be forgotten. As he puts it so neatly: "Spare the rod and spoil the child' I canalize most readily and learned very early indeed how to predict and avoid incidents which would result in Daddy's applying his theories and his hand. But in Clark's case it is almost necessary to use a club simply to gain his divided attention. So it is now clearly evident that we are going to have twin baby sisters. But it is no headache of mine, I am happy to say, for Clark is quite enough maturing trauma for one girl's adolescence. By the time the twins are a current problem I expect to be long gone. Interlude H I, Pod. So you think I can't read your worm tracks. A lot you know about me! Poddy -- oh, excuse me, "Captain" Podkayne Fries, I mean, the famous Space Explorer and Master of Men -- Captain Poddy dear, you probably will never read this because it wouldn't occur to you that I not only would break your "code" but also write comments in the big, wide margins you leave. Just for the record, Sister dear, I read Old Anglish just as readily as I do System Ortho. Anglish isn't all that hard. I learned it as soon as I found out that a lot of books I wanted to read had never been translated. But it doesn't pay to tell everything you know, or somebody comes along and tells you to stop doing whatever it is you are doing. Probably your older sister. But imagine calling a straight substitution a "code"! Poddy, if you had actually been able to write Old Martian, it would have taken me quite a lot longer. But you can't. Shucks, even Dad can't write it without stewing over it and he probably knows more about Old Martian than anyone else in the Solar System. B,ut you won't crack my code -- because I haven't any. Try looking at this page under ultra-violet light -- a sun lamp, for example. by Robert A. Helnlein II H, Unspeakables ! Dirty ears! Hangnails! Snel-frockey ! Spit! At first I thought that my brother Clark had managed one of his more charlatanous machinations of malevolent legerdemain. But fortunately (the only fortunate thing about the whole miserable mess) I soon perceived that it was impossible for him to be in fact guilty no matter what devious subversions roil his id. Unless he has managed to invent and build in secret a time machine, which I misdoubt he would do if he could...nor am I prepared to offer odds that he can't. Not since the time he rewired the delivery robot so that it would serve him midnight snacks and charge them to my code number without (so far as anyone could ever prove) disturbing the company's seal on the control box. We'll never know how he did that one, because despite the fact that the company offered to Forgive All and pay a cash bonus to boot if only he would please tell them how he managed to beat their unbeatable seal -- despite this, Clark just looked blank and would not talk. That left only circumstantial evidence. I.e., it was clearly evident to anyone who knew us both (Daddy and Mother, namely) that I would never order candy-stripe ice cream smothered in hollandaise sauce, or -- no, I can't go on; I feel ill. Whereas Clark is widely known to eat anything which does not eat him first. Even this clinching psychological evidence would never have convinced the company's adjuster had not their own records proved that two of these obscene feasts had taken place while I was a house guest of friends in Syrtis Major, a thousand kilometers away. Never mind. I simply want to warn all girls not to have a Mad Genius for a baby brother. Pick instead a stupid, stolid, slightly subnormal one who will sit quietly in front of the solly box, mouth agape at cowboy classics, and never wonder what makes the pretty images. But I have wandered far from my tragic tale. We aren't going to have twins. We already have triplets. Gamma, Delta and Epsilon, throughout all my former life mere topics of conversation, are now Grace, Duncan and Elspeth in all too solid flesh -- unless Daddy again changes his mind before final registration ; they've had three sets of names already. But what's in a name? -- they are here, already in our home with a nursery room sealed on to shelter them... three helpless unfinished humans about canalworm pink in color and no features worthy of the name. Their limbs squirm aimlessly, their eyes don't track and a faint, queasy odor of sour milk permeates every room even when they are freshly bathed. Appalling sounds come from one end of each -- in which they heterodyne each other -- and even more appalling conditions prevail at the other ends. (I've vet to find all three of them dry at the same time.) A ND yet there is something decidedly engaging about the little things. Were it not that they are the proximate cause of my tragedy I could easily grow quite fond of them. I'm sure Duncan is beginning to recognize me already. But, if I am beginning to be reconciled to their presence, Mother's state can only be described as atavistically maternal. Her professional journals pile up unread, she has that soft Madonna look in her eyes and she seems somehow both shorter and wider than she did a week ago. First consequence : she won't even discuss going to Earth, with or without the triolets. Second consequence: Daddy won't go if she won't go -- he spoke quite sharply to Clark li for even suggesting it. Third consequence : since they won't go, we can't go. Clark and me, I mean. It is conceivably possible that I might have been permitted to travel alone (since Daddy agrees that I am now a "young adult" in maturity and judgment even though my ninth birthday lies still some months in the future), but the question is formal and without content since I am not considered quite old enough to accept full responsible control of my brother with both kilometers away (nor am I sure that I would wish to, unless armed with something at least as convincing as a morning star) and Daddy is so dismayingly fair with us that he would not even discuss permitting one of us to go and not the other when both of us had been promised the trip. Fairness is a priceless virtue in a parent -- but just at the moment I could stand being spoiled and favored instead. But the above is why I am sure that Clark does not have a time machine concealed in his wardrobe. This incredible contretemps, this idiot's dream of interlocking mishaps, is as much to his disadvantage as it is to mine. How did it happen? Gather ye round. Little did we dream that, when the question of a by Robert A. Hoinlein family trip to Earth was being planned in our household more than a month ago, this disaster was already complete and simply waiting the most hideous moment to unveil itself. The facts are these: the creche at Marsopolis has thousands of new-born babies marbelized at just short of absolute zero, waiting in perfect safety until their respective parents are ready for them. It is said, and I believe it, that a direct hit with a nuclear bomb would not hurt the consigned infants. A thousand years later a rescue squad could burrow down and find that automatic, self-maintaining machinery had not permitted the tank temperatures to vary a hundredth of a degree. In consequence, we Marsmen (not "Martians," please ! -- Martians are a nonhuman race, now almost extinct) -- Marsmen tend to marry early, have a full quota of babies quickly, then rear them later, as money and time permit. It reconciles that discrepancy, so increasingly and glaringly evident ever since the Terran Industrial Revolution, between the best biological age for having children and the best social age for supporting and rearing them. ; A couple named Breeze did just that, some ten years ago. They married on her ninth birthday and just past his . ' ,...    : .  ' I.',!'  . v' f  i ' t tenth, while he was still a pilot cadet and she was attending Ares U. They applied for three babies, were pegged accordingly and got them all out of the way while they were both finishing school. Very sensible. The years roll past, he as a pilot and later as master, she as a finance clerk in his ship and later as purser -- a happy life. The spacelines like such an arrangement. 'Married couples spacing together mean a taut, happy ship. Captain and Mrs. Breeze serve their ten-and-a-half (twenty Terran) years and put in for half-pay retirement, have it confirmed -- and immediately radio the creche to uncork their babies, all three of them. The radio order is received, relayed back for confirmation; the creche accepts it. Five weeks later the happy   . , .  couple pick up three babies, sign for them and start the second half of a perfect life. So they thought -- But what they had deposited was two boys and a girl. What they got was two girls and a boy. Ours. B elieve this you must -- it took them the better part of a week to notice it. I will readily concede that the difference between a brand-new boy baby and a brand-new girl baby is almost irrelevant. Nevertheless there is a difference. Apparently it was a case of too much help. Between a mother, a mother-in-law, a temporary nurse and a helpful neighbor, and much running in and out, it seems unlikely that any one person bathed all three babies as one continuous operation that first week. Certainly Mrs. Breeze had not done so -- until the day she did...and noticed...and fainted -- and dropped one of our babies in the bath water, where it would have drowned had not her scream fetched both her husband and the neighbor lady. So we suddenly had monthold triplets. The lawyer man from the creche was very vague about how it happened. He obviously did not want to discuss how their "foolproof" identification system could result in such a mix-up. So I don't know myself. But it seems logically certain that, for all their serial numbers, babies' footprints, record machines, et cetera, there is some point in the system where one clerk read aloud "Breeze" from the radioed order and another clerk checked a file, then punched "Fries" into a machine that did the rest. But the fixer man did not say. He was simply achingly anxious to get Mother and Daddy to settle out of court -- accept a check and sign a release under which they agreed not to publicize the error. They settled for three years of Mother's established professional earning power while the little fixer man gulped and looked relieved. But nobody offered to pay me for the mayhem that had been committed on my life, my hopes and my ambitions. Clark did offer a suggestion that was almost a sensible one, for him. He proposed that we swap even with the Breezes. Let them keep the warm ones, we would keep the cold ones. Ever hod" happy -- and we all go to Earth. My brother is far too selfcentered to realize it, but the Angel of Death brushed him with its wings at that point. Daddy is a truly noble soul... but he had had almost more than he could stand. And so have I. I had expected today to be actually on my IS by Robert A. Heinlein way to Earth, my first space trip farther than Phobos -- which was merely a school field trip, our "Class Honeymoon' A nothing thing. Instead, guess what I'm doing. Do you have any idea how many times a day three babies have to be changed? Ill chines! Wipe the tapes! Cancel all bulletins -- Well, not all of us. Daddy and Mother aren't going, and of course the triplets are not. But -- Never mind ; I had better tell it in order. Yesterday things just got to be Too Much. I had changed them in rotation, only to find as I got the third one dry and fresh that number one again needed service. I had been thinking sadly that just about that moment I should have been entering the dining saloon of S.S. Wanderlust to the strains of soft music. Perhaps on the arm of one of the officers...perhaps even on the arm of the Captain himself had I the chance to arrange an Accidental Happy Encounter, then make judicious use of my "puzzled kitten" expression. And, as I reached that point in my melancholy day dream, it was then that I discovered that my chores had started all over again. I thought of the Augean Stables and suddenly it was just Too Much and my eyes got blurry with tears. Mother came in at that point and I asked if I could please have a couple of hours of recess? She answered, "Why, certainly, dear," and didn't even glance at me. I'm sure that she didn't notice that I was crying. She was already doing over, quite unnecessarily, the one that I had just done. She had been tied up on the phone, telling someone firmly that, while it was true as reported that she was not leaving Mars, nevertheless she would not now accept another commission even as a consultant. No doubt being away from the infants for all of ten minutes had made her uneasy, so she just had to get her hands on one of them. Mother's behavior has been utterly unbelievable. Her cortex has tripped out of circuit and her primitive instincts are in full charge. She reminds me of a cat we had when I was a little girl -- Miss Polka Dot Ma'am -- and her first litter of kittens. Miss Pokie loved and trusted all of us, except about kittens. If we touched one of them, she was uneasy about it. If a kitten was taken out of her box and placed on the floor to be admired, she herself would hop out, grab the kitten in her teeth and immediately return it to the box, with an indignant waggle to her seat that showed all too plainly what she thought of irresponsible people who didn't know how to handle babies. Mother is just like that now. She accepts my help simply because there is too much for her to do alone. But she doesn't really believe that I can even pick up a baby without close supervision. So I left and followed my own blind instincts, which told me to go look up Uncle Tom. I found him at the Elks Club, which was reasonably certain at that time of day, but I had to wait in the ladies' lounge until he came out of the card room. Which he did in about ten minutes, counting a wad of money as he came. "Sorry to make you wait," he said, "but I was teaching a fellow citizen about the uncertainties in the laws of chance and I had to stay long enough to collect the tuition. How marches it, Podkayne mavourneen?" I tried to tell him and got all choked up, so he walked me to the park under the city hall and sat me on a bench and bought us both packages of Choklatpops and I ate mine and most of his and watched the stars on the ceiling and told him all about it and felt better. #Q H E patted my hand. "Cheer up, flicka. Always remember that when things seem darkest they usually get considerably worse." He took his phone out of a pocket and made a call. Presently he said, "Never mind the protocol routine, Miss. This is Senator Fries. I want the Director." Then he added in a moment, "Hymie? Tom Fries here. How's Judith? Good, good... Hymie, I just called to tell you that I'm coming over to stuff you into one of your own liquid helium tanks. Oh, say about fourteen or a few minutes after. That'll give you time to get out of town. Clearing." He pocketed his phone. "Let's get some lunch. Never commit suicide on an empty stomach, my dear. It's bad for the digestion." Uncle Tom took me to the Pioneers Club where I have been only once before and which is even more impressive than I had recalled. It has real waiters... men so old that they might have been pioneers themselves, unless they met the first ship. Everybody fussed over Uncle Tom and he called them all by their first names and they all called him "Tom" but made it sound like "Your Majesty" and the master of the hostel came over and prepared my sweet himself with about six other people standing around to hand him things, like a famous sur t by Robert A. Heinlein ge on operating against the swift onrush of death. Presently Uncle Tom belched behind his napkin and I thanked everybody as we left, while wishing that I had had the forethought to wear my unsuitable gown that Mother won't let me wear until I'm nine and almost made me take back. One doesn't get to the Pioneers Club every day. Ve took the James Joyce Fogarty Express Tunnel and Uncle Tom sat down the whole way. So I had to sit, too, although it makes me restless; I prefer to walk in the direction a tunnel is moving and get there a bit sooner. But Uncle Tom says that he gets plenty of exercise watching other people work themselves to death. I didn't really realize that we were going to the Marsopolis Creche until we were there, so bemused had I been earlier with my own tumultuous emotions. But when we were there and facing a sign Tom said, "Hang around somewhere; I'll need you later." and went on in. The waiting room was crowded and the only magazines not in use were Kiddie Ka ners and Modern Homemaker , so I wandered around a bit and presently found a corridor that led to the Nursery. The sign on the door said that visiting hours were from # to #. Furthermore it was locked, so I moved on and found another door which seemed much more promising. it didn't say "This Means You " and it wasn't locked, so I went in. You never saw so many babies in your whole life! Row upon row upon row, each in its own little transparent cubicle. I could really see only the row nearest me, all of which seemed to be about the same age -- and .much more finished than the three we had at home. Little brown dumplings, they were, cute as puppies. Most of them were asleep, some were awake and kicking and cooing and grabbing at dangle toys that were just in reach. If there had not been a sheet of glass between me and them I would have grabbed me a double armful of babies. in the room, too -- well, young women, really. Each of them seemed to be busy with a baby and they didn't notice me. But shortly one of the babies nearest me started to cry, whereupon a light came on over its cubicle and one of the nurse girls hurried over. slid back the cover, picked it up and started patting its bottom. It stopped crying. "Wet?" I inquired. She looked up, saw me. "Oh, no, the machines take care of that. Just lonely, so I'm loving it." Her voice came through clearly in spite of the glass -- a hear  speak circuit, no doubt, although the pickups were not in evidence. She made soft noises to the baby, then added, "Are you a new employee? You seem to be lost." "Oh, no," I said hastily, "I'm not an employee. I just -- " "Then you don't belong here, not at this hour. Unless -- " she looked at me rather skeptically -- "just possibly you are looking for the instruction class for young mothers?" "Oh, no, no! Not yet." Then I added still more hastily, "I'm a guest of the Director." Well, it wasn't a fib. Not quite. I was a guest of a guest of the Director, one who was with him by appointment. The relationship was certainly concatenative, if not equivalent. It seemed to reassure her. She asked, "Just what did you want?" "Uh, just information. I'm making a sort of a survey. What goes on in this room?" "These are age six-month withdrawal contracts," she told me. "All these babies will be going home in a few days." She put the baby, quiet now, back into its private room, adjusted a nursing nipple for it, made some other sort of adjustments on the outside of the cubicle so that the padding inside sort of humped up and held the baby steady against the milk supply, then closed the top, moved on a few meters and picked up another baby. "Personally," she added, "I think the age six-months contract is the best one. A child twelve months old is old enough to notice the transition. But these aren't. They don't care who comes along and pets them when they cry... but nevertheless six months is long enough to get a, baby well started and take the worst of the load off the mother. We know how, we're used to it, we stand our watches in rotation so that we are never exhausted from being 'up with the baby all night'... and in consequence we aren't short tempered and we never yell at them. And don't think for a minute that a baby doesn't understand a cross tone of voice simply because he can't talk yet. He knows! And it can start him off so twisted that he may take it out on somebody else, years and years later. There, there, honey," she went on but not to me, "feel better now? by Robert A. Heinlein Feeling sleepy, huh? Now you just hold still and Martha will keep her hand on you until you are fast asleep." She watched the baby for a moment longer, then withdrew her hand, closed the box and hurried on to where another light was burning. "A baby has no sense of time," she added as she removed a squalling lump of fury from its crib. "When it needs love, it needs it right now. It can't know that -- " An older woman had come up behind her. "Yes, Nurse?" "Who is this you're chatting with? You know the rules." "But... she's a guest of the Director." The older woman looked at me with a stern no-nonsense look. "The Director sent you in lyjre?" I was making a split-second choice among three non-responsive answers when I was saved by Fate. A soft voice coming from everywhere at once announced: "Miss Podkayne Fries is requested to come to the office of the Director. Miss Podkayne Fries, please come to the office of the Director." I tilted my nose in the air and said with dignity, "That is I. Nurse, will you be so kind as to phone the Director and tell him that Miss Fries is on her way?" I exited with deliberate haste. T HE Director's office was four times as big and sixteen times as impressive as the principal's office at school. The Director was short. He had a dark brown skin and a gray goatee and a harried expression. In addition to him and to Uncle Tom, of course, there was present the little lawyer man who had had a bad time with Daddy a week earlier -- and my brother Clark. I couldn't figure out how he got there...except that Clark has an infallible homing instinct for trouble. Clark looked at me with no expression ; I nodded. The Director and his legal beagle stood up. Uncle Tom didn't but he said, "Dr. Hyman Schoenstein, Mr. Poon Kwai Yau -- my niece Podkayne Fries. Sit down, honey. Nobody is going to bite you. The Director has a proposition to offer you." The lawyer man interrupted. "I don't think -- " "Correct," agreed Uncle Tom. "You don't think. Or it would have occurred to you that ripples spread out from a splash." "But -- Dr. Schoenstein, the release I obtained from Professor Fries explicitly binds him to silence, for separate good and sufficient consider ation, over and above damages conceded by us and made good! This is tantamount to blackmail. I -- " ,W a. M VV.V   p;. o'#( v-" r m mlm : m:,:,  Vvx '.l  V # ; LWir'i Bv# wm wii  jii ii mmm npi mimsim mw Ml ipitt iiStl pm iw Then Uncle Tom did stand up. He seemed twice as tall as usual and he was grinning like a fright mask. "What was that last word you used?' "I ?" The lawyer looked startled. "Perhaps I spoke hastily. I simply meant -- " "I heard you," Uncle Tom growled. "And so did three witnesses. Happens to be one of the words a man can be challenged for, on this still free planet. But, since I'm getting old and fat, I may just sue you for your shirt instead. Come along, kids." The Director spoke quickly. "Tom... sit down, please. Mr. Poon... please keep quiet unless I ask for your advice. Now, Tom, you know quite well that you can't challenge nor sue over a privileged communication, counsel to client." "I can do both or either. Question is: will a court sustain me? But I can always find out," "And thereby drag out into the open the very point you know quite well I can't afford to have dragged out. Simply because my lawyer spoke in an excess of zeal. Mr. Poon?" "I tried to withdraw it. I do withdraw it." "Senator?" Uncle Tom bowed stiffly to Mr. Poon, who returned it. "Accepted, sir. No offense meant and none taken." Then Uncle Tom grinned merrily, let his pot-belly slide back down out of his chest, and said in his normal voice. "Okay, Hymie, let's get on with the crime. Your move." carefully, "Young lady, I have just learned that the recent disruption of family planning in your home -- which we all deeply regret -- caused an additional sharp disappointment to you and your brother." "It certainly did !" I answered, rather shrilly I'm afraid. "Yes. As your uncle put it, the ripples spread out. Another of those ripples could wreck this establishment, make it insolvent as a private business. This is an odd sort of business we are in here, Miss Fries. Superficially we perform a routine engineering function, plus some not tinusual boarding nursery services. But in fact what we do touches the most primitive of human emotions. If confidence in our integrity, or in the perfection with which we carry out the service entrusted to us, were to be shaken -- " He spread his hands helplessly. "We couldn't last out the year. Now I can show you exactly how the mishap occurred which affected your family, show you how wildly unlikely it was to have it happen even under the methods we did use... prove to you how utterly impossible it now is and always will be in the future for such a mistake to take place again, under our new procedures. Nevertheless -- " he looked helpless again -- "if you were to talk, merely tell the simple truth about what did indeed happen once... you could ruin us." I felt so sorry for him that I was about to blurt out that I wouldn't even dream of talking ! -- even though they had ruined my life -- when Clark cut in. "Watch it, Pod ! It's loaded."  So I just gave the Director my Sphinx expression and said nothing. Clark's instinctive self-interest is absolutely reliable. Dr. Schoenstein motioned Mr. Poon to keep quiet. "But, my dear lady, I am not asking you not to talk. As your uncle the Senator says, you are not here to blackmail and I have nothing with Which to bargain. The Marsopolis Creche Foundation, Limited, always carries out its obligations even when they do not result from formal contract. I asked you to come in here in order to suggest a measure of relief for the damage we. have unquestionably -- though unwittingly -- done you and your brother...Your uncle tells me that he had intended to travel with you and your family... but that now he intends to go via the next Triangle Line departure. The Tricorn , I believe it is, about ten days from now. Would you feel less mistreated if we were to pay first class fares for your brother and you -- round trip, of course -- in the Triangle Line?" Would I! The Wanderlust has, as her sole virtue, the fact that she is indeed ' a spaceship and she was shaping for Earth. But she is an old, slow freighter. Whereas the Triangle Liners, as everyone knows, are utter palaces! I could but nod. "Good. It is our privilege and we hope you have a wonderful trip. But, uh, young lady...do you think it possible that you could give us some assurance, for no consideration and simply out of kindness, that you wouldn't talk about a certain regrettable mishap?" "Oh? I thought that was part of the deal?" "There is no deal. As your uncle pointed out to me, we owe you this trip, no matter what." "Why -- why, Doctor, I'm going to be sousy, so utterly rushed, just to get ready in time, that I won't have time to talk to anyone about any mishaps that probably weren't . fey Robert A. Heinlein your fault anyhow!" "Thank you." He turned to Clark. "And you, son?" Clark doesn't like to be called "son" at best. But I don't think it affected his answer. He ignored the vocative and said coldly, "What about our expenses?" D R. Schoenstein flinched. Uncle Tom guffawed and said, "That's my boy! Doc, I told you he had the simple rapacity of a sand gator. He'll go far -- if somebody doesn't poison him." "Any suggestions?" "No trouble. Clark. Look me in the eye. Either you stay behind and we weld you into a barrel and feed you through the bunghole so that you can't talk -- while your sister goes anyhow -- or you accept these terms. Say a thousand each -- no, fifteen hundred -- for travel expenses, and you keep your snapper' shut forever about the baby mixup... or I personally, with the aid of four stout, black-hearted accomplices, will cut your tongue out and feed it to the cat. A deal?" "I ought to get ten per cent commission on Sis's fifteen hundred. She didn't have sense enough to ask for it." "No cumshaw. I ought to be charging you a commission on the whole transaction. A deal?" "A deal " Clark agreed. ' # ' #  . Uncle Tom stood up. "That does it. Doc. In his own unappetizing way he is as utterly reliable as she is. So relax. You, too, Kwai Yau, you can breathe again. Doc, you can send a check around to me in the morning. Come on, kids." "Thanks, Tom. If that is the word. I'll have the check over before you get there. Uh... just one thing -- " What, Doc?" Senator, you were here long before I was born, so I don't know too much about your early life. Just the traditional stories and what it says about you in Who's Who on Mars. Just what were you transported for? You uere transported? Weren't you?" Mr. Poon looked horrorstricken, and I was. But Uncle Tom didn't seem offended. He laughed heartily and answered, "I was accused of freezing babies for prof it... Rut it ! was a frameupi -- J never did no ) such thing nohow. Come on, kids. Let's get out of this ' ghouls' nest before they smuggle us down into the sub-basement." Later that night in bed I was dreamily thinking over the trip. There hadn't even been the least argument with Mother and Daddy; Uncle Tom had settled it all by I phone before we got home; I heard a sound from the nursery, got up and paddled in. It ) . i.   was Duncan, the little darling, not even wet but lonely. So I picked him up and cuddled him and he cooed and then he was wet, so I changed him. I decided that he was just as pretty or prettier than all those other babies, even though he was five months younger and his eyes didn't track. When I put him down again, he was sound asleep; I started back to bed. And stopped -- The Triangle Line gets its name from serving the three leading planets, of course, but which direction a ship makes the Mars-Venus-Earth route depends on just where we all are in our orbits. But just where were we? I hurried into the living room and searched for the Daily War Whoop -- found it, thank goodness, and fed it into the viewer, flipped to the shipping news. Yes, yes, yes ! I am going not only to Earth -- but to Venus as well! Venus ! Do you suppose Mother would let me -- no, best iust say nothing now. Uncle Tom will be more tractable, after we get there. I'm going to miss Duncan -- he's such a little doll. IV I haven't had time to write in this journal for days . Just getting ready to leave was almost impossible -- and would have been truly impossible had it not been that most preparations -- all the special T e r r a n innoculations and photographs and passports and such -- were mostly done before Everything Came Unstuck ; But Mother came out of her atavistic daze and was very helpful. She would even let one of the triplets cry for as much as a minute rather than disappear and leave me half pinned up. I don't know how Clark got ready or whether he had any preparations to make. He continued to creep around silently, answering in grunts if he answered at all. Nor did Uncle Tom seem to find it difficult. I saw him only twice during those frantic ten days (once to borrow baggage mass from his allowance, which he let me have, the dear!) and both times I had to dig him out of the card roornT at the Elks i Club. I asked him how he managed to get readv for so important a trip and still have time to play cards? "Nothing to it," he answered. "I bought a new toothbrush. Is there something else I should have done?" So I hugged him and told him he was an utterly utter beast and he chuckled and mussed my hair. Query: Will I ever become that blase about space travel? I suppose I must if I am to be an astronaut. by Robert A. Heinlefii But Daddy says that getting ready s for a trip is half the fun... so perhaps I don't want to became that sophisticated. Somehow Mother delivered me, complete with baggage and all the myriad pieces of paper -- tickets and medical records and passport and universal identification complex and guardians' assignmentand-guarantee and three kinds of money and traveler s' checks and birth record and police certification and security clearance and I don't remember -- all checked off, to the city shuttle port. I was juggling one package of things that simply wouldn't go into my luggage, and I had one hat on my head and one in my hand. Otherwise everything came out even. Good-by at the shuttle port was most teary and exciting. Not just with Mother and Daddy, which was to be expected (when Daddy put his arm around me tight, I threw both mine around him and for a dreadful second I didn't want to leave at all), but also because about thirty of my classmates showed up (which I hadn't in the least expected), complete with a banner that two of them were carrying reading: I got kissed enough times to start a fair-sized epidemic if any one of them had had anything, which apparently they didn't. I got kissed by boys who had never even tried to, in the past -- and I assure you that it is not utterly impossible to kiss me, if the project is approached with confidence and finesse, as I believe that one's instincts should be allowed to develop as well as one's overt cortical behavior. The corsage Daddy had given me for going away got crushed and I didn't even notice it until we were aboard the shuttle. I suppose it was somewhere about then that I lost that hat, but I'll never know. I would have lost the last-minute package, too, if Uncle Tom had not rescued it. There were photographers, too, but not for me -- for Uncle Tom. Then suddenly we had to scoot aboard the shuttle right now because a shuttle can't wait. It has to boost on the split second, even though Deimos moves so much more slowly than Phobos. A reporter from the War Whoop was still trying to get a statement out of Uncle Tom about the forthcoming Three-P I a n e t s conference but he just pointed at his throat and whispered, "Laryngitis" -- then we were aboard just before they sealed the airlock. It must have been the shortest case of laryngitis on record. Upcle Tom's voice had been all right until we got to the shuttle port and it was okay again once we were in the shuttle. O NE shuttle trip is exactly like another, whether to Phobos or Deimos. Still, that first tremendous whoosh ! of acceleration is exciting as it pins you down into your couch with so much weight that you can't breathe, much less move -- and free fall is always strange and eerie and rather stomach-fluttering even if one doesn't tend to be nauseated by it, which, thank you, I don't. Being on Deimos is just like being in free fall, since neither Deimos nor Phobos has enough surface gravitation for one to feel it. They put suction sandals on us before they unstrapped us so that we could walk, just as they do on Phobos. Nevertheless Deimos is different from Phobos for reasons having nothing to do with natural phenomena. Phobos is, of course, legally a part of Mars. There are no formalities of any sort about visiting it. All that is required is the fare, a free day and a yen for a picnic in space. But Deimos is a free port, leased in perpetuity to ThreePlanets Treaty Authority. A known criminal, with a price on his head in Marsopolis, could change ships there right under the eyes of our own police. We couldn't touch him. Instead, we would have to start most complicated legal doings at the Interplanetary High Court on Luna, practically win the case ahead of time and, besides that, prove that the crime was a crime under Three-P I a n e t rules and not just under our own laws. Then all that we could do would be to ask the Authority's proctors to arrest the man if he was still around -- which doesn't seem likely. I knew about this, theoretically, because there had been about a half page on it in our school course Essentials oi Martian Government in the section on "Extraterritoriality." But now I had plenty of time to think about it because, as soon as we left the shuttle, we found ourselves locked up in a room misleadingly called the "Hospitality Room" while we waited until they were ready to "process" us. One wall of the room was glass. I could see lots and lots of people hurrying around in the concourse beyond, doing all manner of interesting and mysterious things. But all we had to do was to wait beside our baggage and grow bored. I found that I was growing more furious by the minute, not at all like my normally sweet and lovable nature. Why, this place had been built by my own mother! And here I was, caged up in it like by Robert A. Hein lei n white mice in a bio lab. (Well, I admit that Mother didn't exactly build Deimos. The Martians did that, starting with a spare asteroid that they happened to have handy. back they grew tired of space travel and devoted all their time to the whichness of what and how to unscrew the inscrutable -- so when Mother took over the job, Deimos was pretty run down ; she had to start in from the ground up and rebuild it completely.) I N any case, it was certain that everything that I could see through that transparent wall was a product of Mother's creative imaginative and hard-headed engineering ability. I began to fume. Clark was off in a corner, talking privately to some stranger. "Stranger" to me, at least. Clark, for all his anti-social disposition, always seems to know somebody, or to know somebody who knows somebody, anywhere we go. I sometimes wonder if he is a member of some vast underground secret society; he has such unsavory acquaintances and never brings any of them home. Clark is, however, a very satisfactory person to fume with, because, if he isn't busy,' person hate anything that needs hating. He can even dig up reasons why a situation is even more vilely unfair than you thought it was. But he was busy, so that left Uncle Tom. So I explained to him bitterly how outrageous I thought it was that we should be penned up like animals -- free Mars citizens on one of Mars' own moons ! -- simply because a sign read : "Passengers must wait until called by order of Three-Planets Treaty Authority." "Politics!" I said bitterly. "I could run it better myself." "I'm sure you could," he agreed gravely, "but, flicka, you don't understand." "I understand all too well!" "No, honey bun. You understand that there is no good reason why you should not walk straight through that door and enjoy yourself by shopping until it is time to go inboard the Tricorn. And you are right about that, for there is no need at all for you to be locked up in here when you could be out there making some free port shopkeeper happy by paying him a high price which seems to you a low price. So you say, 'Politics !' as if it were a nasty word -- and you think that settles it." i He sighed. "But you don't understand. Politics is not evil. Politics is the human race's most magnificent achievement. When politics is good, it's wonderful...and when politics is bad -- well, it's still pretty good' "I guess I don't understand' I 'said slowly. "Think about it. Politics is just a name for the way we get things done...without fighting. We dicker and compromise and everybody thinks he has received a raw deal, but somehow after a tedious amount of talk we come up with some jury-rigged way to do it without getting anybody's head bashed in. That's politics. The only other way to settle a dispute is by bashing a few heads in...and that is what happens when one or to dicker. That's why I say politics is good even when it is bad. The only alternative is force -- and somebody gets hurt." "Uh...it seems to me that's a funny way for a revolutionary veteran to talk. From f f j r   I  . ,  i  ' f r  r...  i, ;   f  I  A  I  , . iA. ., .  T .  . what I've heard, Uncle Tom, you were one of the bloodthirsty ones who started the shooting. Or so Daddy says." H E grinned. "Mostly I ducked. If dickering won't work, then you have to fight. But I think maybe it takes a man who has been shot at to appreciate how much better it is to fumble your way through a political compromise rather than have the top of your head blown off." He frowned and suddenly looked very old. "When to talk and when to fight -- That is the most difficult decision to make wisely of all the decisions in life." Then suddenly he smiled and the years dropped away. "M a n k i n d didn't invent fighting; it was here long before we were. But we invented politics. Just think of it, hon. Homo sapiens is the most cruel, the most vicious, the most predatory and certainly the most deadly of the time, get along well enough so that we usually don't kill each other. So don't let me hear you using 'politics' as a swear word again." w I'm sorry, Uncle Tom," I Said humbly. Like fun you are. But if you let that idea soak for twenty or thirty years, you may -- Oh, oh! There's your villain, baby girl. The politically appointed bureaucrat who has most unjustly held by Robert A. Heinlein you in durance vile. So scratch his eyes out. Show him how little you think #f his silly rules." I answered this with dignified silence. It is hard to tell when Uncle Tom is serious. He loves to pull my leg, always hoping that it will come off in his hand. The ThreePlanets proctor of whom he was speaking had opened the door to our bull pen and was looking around exactly like a zookeeper inspecting a cage for cleanliness. "Passports !" he called out. "Diplomatic passports first." He looked us over, spotted Uncle Tom. "Senator?" Uncle Tom shook his head. "I'm a tourist, thanks." "As you say, sir. Line up, please. Reverse alphabetical order" -- which put us near the tail of the line instead of near the head. There followed maddening delays, for fully two hours -- passports, health clearance, outgoing baggage inspection. Mars Republic does not levy duties on exports, but just the same there is a whole long list of things you can't export without a license, such as ancient Martian artifacts (the first explorers did their best to gut the place and some of the most priceless are in the British Museum or the 'Kremlin; I've heard Daddy fume about it), some things you can't export under any circumstances, such as certain narcotics, and some things you can take aboard ship only by surrendering them for safekeeping by the purser, such as guns and other weapons. Clark picked outgoing inspection for some typical abnormal behavior. They had passed down the line copies of a long list of things we must not have in our baggage. A fascinating list; I hadn't known that there were so many things that were illegal, immoral or deadly. When the Fries contingent wearily reached the inspection counter, the inspector said, all in one word: " 'Nything-t'd'clare?" He was a Marsman and as he looked up he recognized Uncle Tom. "Oh. Howdy, Senator. Honored to have you with us. Well, I guess we needn't waste time on your baggage. These two young people with you?" "Better search my kit," Uncle Tom advised. "I'm smuggling guns toan out-planet branch of the Legion. As for the kids, they're my niece and nephew. But I don't vouch for them ; they're both subversive characters. Especially the girl. She was soap-boxing revolution lust now." The inspector smiled and said, "I guess we can allow you a few guns, Senator. You know how Mo use them. Well, how abut it, kids? Anything to declare?" I said, "Nothing to declare' with icy dignity -- when suddenly Clark spoke up. "Sure!" he piped, his voice cracking. "Two kilos of happy dust! And whose business is it? I paid for it. I'm not going to let it be stolen by a bunch of clerks." His voice was surly as only he can manage and the expression on his face simply ached for a slap. had been just about to glance into one of my bags -- a purely formal inspection, I think -- when my brattish. brother deliberately stirred things up. At the very word "happy dust" four other inspectors closed in. Two were Venusmen, to judge by their accents, and the other two might have been from Earth. Of course, happy dust doesn't matter to us Marsmen. The Martians use it, have always used it, and it is about as important to them as tobacco is to humans, but apparently without any ill effects. What they get out of it I don't know. Some of the old sand rats among us have picked up the habit from the Martians. But my entire botany class experimented with it under our teacher's supervision and nobody got any thrill out of it and all I got was blocked sinuses that wore off before the day was out. Strictly zero squared. But with the native Venerians it is another matter -- when they can get it. It turns them into murderous maniacs. They'll do anything to get it. The (black market) price on it there is very high indeed...and possession of it by a human on Venus is at least an automatic life sentence to Saturn's moons. They buzzed around Clark like angry jetta wasps. But they did not find what they were looking for. Shortly Uncle Tom spoke up and said, "Inspector? May I make a suggestion?" "Eh? Certainly you may. Senator." "My nephew, I am sorry to say, has caused a disturbance. Why don't you put him aside -- chain him up, I would -- and let all these other good people go through?" The inspector blinked. "I think that is an excellent idea." "And I would appreciate it if you would inspect myself and my niece now. Then we won't hold up the others." "Oh, that's not necessary." The inspector slapped seals on all of Uncle's bags, closed the one of mine he had started to open and said, "I don't need to paw through the young lady's pretties. But I think we'll take this smart boy and search him to the skin and X-ray him." "Do that." fcy Robert A. Heinlefit So Uncle and I went on and checked at four or five other desks -- fiscal control and migration and reservations and other nonseivs e -- and finally wound up with our baggage at the centrifuge for weighing in. I never did get a chance to shop. ? T O my chagrin, when I stepped off the merry-goround the record showed that my baggage and myself were nearly three kilos over my allowance. That didn't seem possible. I hadn't eaten more breakfast than usual -- less actually -- and I hadn't drunk any water because, while I do not become ill in free fall, drinking in free fall is very tricky. You are likely to get water up your nose or something and set off an embarrassing chain reaction. So I was about to protest bitterly that the weightmaster had spun the centrifuge too fast and produced a false mass reading. But it occurred to me that I did not know for surely certain that the scales Mother and I had used were perfectly accurate. So I kept quiet. Uncle Tom just reached for his purse but the weight-master shook his head. "Forget it, Senator. I'm minus on a cou-pie of other things; I think I can swallow it. If not, I'll leave a memo with the purser. But I'm fairly sure I can." "Thank you. What did you say your name was?" "Milo. Miles M. Milo -- Aasvogel Lodge number seventy-four. Maybe you saw our crack drill team at the Legion convention two years ago. I was left pivot." "I certainly did, I certainly did !" They exchanged that secret grip that they think other people don't know and Uncle Tom said, "Well, thanks. Miles. Be seeing you." "Not at all -- Tom. No, don't bother with your baggage." Mr. Milo touched a button and called out, "In the Tricorn ! Get somebody out here fast for the Senator's baggage." It occurred to me, as we stopped at the passenger tube sealed to the transfer station to swap our suction sandals for little magnet pads that clipped to our shoes, that we need not have waited for anything at any time -- if only to use the special favors he so plainly could demand. But, even so, it pays to travel with an important personeven though it's just your Uncle Tom whose stomach you used to jump up and down on when you were small enough for such things. Our tickets simply read "First Class" -- I'm sure, for I saw all three of them -- but where we were placed was in what they call the "Owner's Cabin," which is actually a suite with three bedrooms and a living room. I was dazzled ! But I didn't have time to admire it just then. First they strapped our baggage down, then they strapped us down -- to seat couches which were against one wall of the living room. That wall plainly should have been the floor, but it slanted up almost vertically with respect to the tiny, not-quite-nothing weight that we had. The warning sirens were already sounding when someone dragged Clark in and strapped him to one of the couches. He was looking mussed up but cocky. "Hi, smuggler," Uncle Tom greeted him amiably. "They find it on you?" "Nothing to find." "That's what I thought. I trust they gave you a rough time." "Naah !" I wasn't sure I believed Clark's answer; I've heard that a skin  person search can be made quite annoying indeed, without doing anything the least bit illegal, if the proctors are feeling unfriendly. A "rough time" would be good for Clark's soul, I am sure. But he certainly did not act as if the experience had caused  him any discomfort. I said, "Clark, that was a very foolish remark you made 'to the inspector. And it wai a lie, as  well. A silly, useless lie." "Sign off, I ' he said curtly. "If I'm smuggling anything, it's up to them to find it; that's what they're 'paid for. 'Any-thing-t'-d'clare?' " he added in a mimicking voice. "What nonsense! As if anybody would declare something he was trying to smuggle." "Just the same," I went on, "if Daddy had heard you say -- " "Podkayne." "Yes, Uncle Tom?" "Table it. We're about to start. Let's enjoy it." "But -- Yes, Uncle." in pressure, then a sudden surge that would have slid us out of our couches if we had not been strapped -- but not a strong one, not at all like that giant whoosh ! with which we had left the surface. It did not last long. Then we were truly in free fall for a few moments...then there started a soft, gentle push in the same direction, which kept up. Then the room started very slowly to turn around... almost unnoticeable except for a slight dizziness it gave one. Gradually, gradually (it took almost twenty minutes) our weight increased, until at last we were back to our proper weight...at which time the floot', Which had been all wrong whfen we came in, was where it belonged, unde i us, and almost level. I Here is whit hkd liappened. The first 'stidpt boost ws   v, i t ' t r... ' ' . f . by Robert A. Heinlein...  f ; r t '  # t : # C  I made by the racket tugs of Deimos Port picking up the Tricorn and hurling her out into a free orbit of her own. This doesn't take much, because the attraction between even a big ship like the Tricorn and a tiny, tiny satellite such as Deimos isn't enough to matter. All that matters is getting the very considerable mass of the ship shoved free. The second gentle shove, the one that kept up and never went away, was the ship's own main drive -- one-tenth of a standard gee. The Tricorn is a constant-boost ship. She doesn't dilly-dally around with economical orbits and weeks and months in free fall. She goes very fast indeed... because even #.I gee adds up awfully fast. But one-tenth gee is not enough to make comfortable passengers who have been used to more. As soon as the Captain had set her on her course, he started to spin her and kept it up until the centrifugal force and the boost added up (in vector addition, of course) to exactly the surface gravitation of Mars (or # of a standard gee) at the locus of the first-class staterooms. But the floors will not be quite level until we approach Earth, because the inside of the ship had been constructed so that the floors would feel perfectly level when the spin and the boost added up to exactly one standard gravity -- or Earth-Normal. Maybe this isn't too clear. Well, it wasn't too clear to me, in school. I didn't see exactly how it worked out until (later) I had a chance to see the controls used to put spin on the ship and how the centrifugal force was calculated. Just remember that the Tricon? -- and her sisters, the Trice and the Triad and the Triangulum and the Tricolor -- are enormous cylinders. The thrust is straight along the main axis. It has to be. Centrifugal force pushes away from the main axis -- how else? The two forces add up to make the ship's "artificial gravity" in passenger country. But, since one force (the boost) is kept constant and the other (the spin) .can be varied, there can be only one rate of spin which will add in with the boost to make those floors perfectly level. For the Tricorn the spin that will produce level floors and exactly one Earth gravity in passenger country is # revolutions per minute. I know because the Captain told me so... and I checked his arithmetic and he was right. The floor of our cabin is just over thirty meters from the main axis of the ship, so it all comes out even. ) A S soon ,as they had the floor back under us and had announcedL the "all clear" I unstrapped me and hurried out. I wanted a quick look at  the ship; I didn't even wait to unpack. There's a fortune awaiting the man who invents a really good deodorizer for a spaceship. That's the one thing you can't fail to notice. Oh, they try, I grant them that. The air goes through precipitators each time it is cycled. It is washed, it is perfumed, a precise fraction of ozone is added and the new oxygen that is put in after the carbon dioxide is distilled out is as pure as a baby's mind. It has to be, for it is newly released as a by-product of the photosynthesis of living plants. That air is so pure that it really ought to be voted a medal by the Society for the Suppression of Evil Thoughts. Besides that, a simply amazing amount of the crew's time is put into cleaning, polishing, washing, sterilizing -- oh, they try! But nevertheless, even a new, extra-fare luxury liner like the Tricorn simply reeks of human sweat and ancient sin, with undefinable overtones of organic decay and unfortunate accidents and matters best forgotten. Once I was with Daddy when a Martian tomb was being unsealed. I found out wlfy xenoarcheologists always' have gas masks handy. But a spaceship smells even worse than that tomb. It does no good to complain to the purser. He'll listen with professional sympathy and send a crewman around to spray your stateroom with something which (I suspect) merely deadens your nose for a while. But his sympathy is not real, because the poor man simply cannot smell anything wrong himself. He has lived in ships for years; it is literally impossible for him to smell the unmistakable reek of a ship that has been lived in. And, besides, he knows that the air is pure; the ship's instruments show it. None of the professional spacers can smell it. But the purser and all of them are quite used to having passengers complain about the "unbearable stench" -- so they pretend sympathy and go through the motions of correcting the matter. Jtfot that I complained. I was looking forward to having this ship eating out of my hand, and you don't accomplish that sort of coup by becoming known first thing as a complainer. But other first-timers did, and I certainly understood why. In fact I began to have a glimmer of a doubt about my ambitions to become skipper of an explorer ship. But -- Well, in about two days it seemed to me that they had managed to clean up the ship quite a bit, and shortly thereafter I stopped thinking about it. I began to understand why the ship's crew can't smell the by Robert A. Heinlein things the passengers complain about. Their nervous systems simply cancel out the did familiar stinks -- like a cybernetic skywatch canceling out and ignoring any object whose predicted orbit has previously been programmed into the machine. But the odor is still there. I suspect that it sinks right into polished metal and can never be removed, short of scrapping the ship and melting it down. Thank goodness the human nervous system is endlessly adaptable. B UT my own nervous system didn't seem too adaptable during that first hasty tour of the Tricorn . It is a good thing that I had not eaten much breakfast and had refrained from drinking anything. My stomach did give me a couple of bad moments, but I told it sternly that I was busy. I was very anxious to look over the ship; I simply didn't have time to cater to the weaknesses to which flesh is heir. Well, the Tricorn is lovely all right -- every bit as nice as the travel folders say that she is... except for that dreadful ship's odor. Her ball room is gorgeous and so big that you can see that the floor curves to match the ship...only it is not curved when you walk across it. It is level, too. It is the only room in the ship where they jack up the floor to match perfectly with whatever spin is on the ship. There is a lounge with a simulated sky of outer space, or it can be switched to blue sky and fleecy clouds. Some old biddies were already in there, gabbling. The dining saloon is every bit as fancy, but it seemed hardly big enough -- which reminded me of the warning in the travel brochure about first and second tables, so I rushed back to our cabin to urge Uncle Tom to make reservations for us quickly before all the best tables were filled. He wasn't there. I took a quick look in all the rooms and didn't find him -- but I found Clark in my room, just closing one of my bags ! "What are you doing?" I demanded. He jumped and then looked perfectly blank. "I was just looking to see if you had any nausea pills," he said woodenly. "Well, don't dig into my ; i :   i j r things! You know better." I came up and felt his cheek. He wasn't feverish. "I don't have any. But I noticed where the surgeon's office is. If you are feeling ill, I'll take you straight there and let him dose you." He pulled away. "Aw, I'm all right -- now." "Clark Fries, you listen to me. If you -- " But he wasn't listening. He slid past me, ducked into his own room and closed the door; I heard the lock click. I closed the bag he had opened -- and noticed something. It was the bag the inspector had been just about to search when Clark had pulled that silly stunt about "happy dust." My younger brother never does anything without a reason. Never. His reasons often are inscrutable to others. But, if you just dig deeply enough, you will always find that his mind is never a randomchoice machine, doing things pointlessly. It is as logical as a calculator -- and about as cold. I now knew why he had made what seemed to be entirely unnecessary trouble for himself at outgoing inspection. I knew why I had been unexpectedly three kilos over my allowance on the centrifuge. The only thing I didn't know was: What had he smuggled aboard in my baggage? And why? Interlude see that you've resumed keeping your diary. Not only do I find your girlish viewpoints entertaining but also you sometimes (not often) provide me with useful bits of information. If I can do anything for you in return, do let me know. Perhaps you would like help in straightening out your grammar? Those incomplete sentences you are so fond of indicate incomplete thinking. You know that, don't you? For example, let us consider a purely hypothetical case: a delivery robot with an unbeatable seal. Since the seal is in fact unbeatable, thinking about the seal simply leads to frustration. But a complete analysis of the situation leads one to the obvious fact that any cubical or quasicubical object has six sides, and that the seal applies to only one of these six sides. Pursuing this line of thought one may note that, while the quasi-cube may not be moved without cutting its connections, the floor under it may be lowered as much as forty-eight centimeters -- if one has all afternoon in which to work. Were this not a hypothetby Robert A. Heinlein leal case I would now suggest the use of a mirror and light on an extension handle and some around-the-corner tools, plus plenty of patience. That's what you lack. Pod . -- patience, I hope this may shed some , light on the matter of the hypothetical happy dust. Do . feel free to come to me with your little problems,    V door locked all the time the first three days we were in  the Tricorn : I know, because I tried it every time he left the suite. Then on the fourth day he failed to lock it at a time when ft was predictable that he would be gone at least an houTj as he had signed up for a tour of ' the ship -- the parts 'passengers ordinarily are not ' allowed in, I mean. I didn't mind missmg : ft myse'lf for v by then T had worked I ofct my ownprivate # Poddy special" escort service. Nor did I have to worry about  Uncle  T om. He wasn't' making the tour, it would have violated his noexercise rule, but he had acquired new pinochle cronies and he was safely in the smoking room. Those stateroom door locks are not impossible to pick. Not for a girl equipped with a nail file, some bits of this and that, and free run of the purser's office -- me, I mean. But' I found I did not have to pick the lock. The catch had not quite caught. I breathed the conventional sigh of relief, I figured that the happy accident put me at least twenty minutes ahead of schedule. I shan't detail the search, but I flatter myself that the Criminal Investigation Bureau could not have done it more logically nor more quickly if limited, as I was, to bare hands and no equipment. It had to be something foi bidden by that list they had given us on Deimos -- and I had carefully kept and studied my copy. It had to mass slightly over three kilos. It had to bulk so large and be sufficiently fixed in its shape and dimensions , that , Clark was forced to hide it in baggage. Otherwise I am sure, he would have concealed it on his person and coidly depended. on his youth and 'inho.ence," plus the chaperonage of Uncle Toni, to breeze him : # r '   r  I  . t through the outgoing inspection. Otherwise he would never have taken the calculated risk of hiding it in my baggage, since he couldn't be sure of recovering it without my knowing. Could he have predicted that I would at once go sightseeing; without waiting to unpack? Well, perhaps he could, even though I had done so on the spur of the moment. I must reluctantly admit that Clark: carx outguess me with A I maddening regularity. As an opponent, he is never to be underrated. But still it was for him a "calculated risk," albeit a small one. Very well. Largish, rather massy, forbidden. But I didn't know what it looked like and I had to assume that anything which met the first two requirements might be disguised to appear innocent. And so to work -- Ten minutes later I knew that it had to be in one of his three bags, which I had left to the last on purpose as the least likely spots. A stateroom aboard ship has many cover plates, access holes, removable fixtures, and the like, but I had done a careful practice run in my own room; I knew which ones were worth opening, which ones could not be opened without power tools, which ones could not be opened without leaving unmistakable sighs of tampering. I checked these all in great haste, then congratulated Clark on having the good sense not to use such obvious hiding places. readily accessible -- out in the open, in his wardrobe, etc. -- using the classic "Purloined Letter" technique, i.e., J never assumed that a book was a book simply because it looked like a book, nor t;haf a jacket was simply that and nothing more. Null, negative, nothing. Reluctantly, I tackled his three pieces of luggage, first noting carefully exactly how they were stacked and in what order. The first was empty. Oh, the linings could have been tampered with, but the bag was no heavier than it should have been and any false pocket in the linings could not have held anything large enough to meet the specifications. The second bag was the same. And the bag on the bottom seemed to be the same... until I found an envelope in a pocket of rt. Oh, nothing nearly massy enough, nor gross enough; just an ordinary envelope for a letter -- but nevertheless I glanced at it. And was immediately indignant ! It had printed on it: M iss Podkayne Fries Passenger, S.S. Tricorn , Fordelivery in ship Why, the little wretch! He had been intercepting my . mail ! With' fingers trembling with rage so badly that I could hardly do so I opened it -- and discovered that it had already been opened and was angrier than ever. But, at least, the note was still inside. Shaking, I pulled it out and read it. Just six words -- Hi, Pod. Snooping again , I  see. -- in Clark's handwriting, by Robert A. Hein loin I stood there, frozen, for a long moment, 'While I blushed scarlet and chewed the bitter realization that I had been hoaxed to perfection -- again. There are only three people in the world who can make me feel stupid -- and Clark is two of them. I heard a throat-clearing sound behind me and whirled around. Lounging in the open doorway (I had left it closed) was my brother. He smiled at me and said, "Hello, Sis. Looking for something? Need any help?" I didn't waste time pretending that I didn't have jam all over my face ; I simply said, "Clark Fries, what did you smuggle into this ship in my baggage?" He looked blank -- a look of malignant idiocy which has been known to drive wellbalanced teachers to their therapists. "What in the world are you talking about, Pod?" "You know what Tifi talking about! Smuggling!" "Oh!" His face lit up in a sunny smile, "You mean tliosi two kilograms of happy dust. Goodness, Sis, is that still worrying you? There never were any two kilos of happy dust. I was just having my little joke with that stuffy inspector. I thought you knew that." "I do not mean any 'two kilos of happy dust'! I am talking about at least three kilos of something else that you hid in my baggage!" He looked worried "Pod, do you feel well?" "Ooooooh -- dandruff ! Clark Fries, you stop that! You know what I mean! When I was centrifuged, my bags and I weighed three kilos over my allowance. Well?" He looked at me thoughtfully, sympathetically. "It has seemed to me that you were getting a bit fat -- but I didn't want to mention it. I thought it was all this rich food you've been tucking away here in the ship. You really ought to watch that sort of thing, Pod. After all, if a girl lets her figure go to pieces -- Well, she doesn't have much else. So I hear." Had that envelope been a blunt instrument I would have blunted him. I heard a low growling sound, and realized that I was making it. So I stopped. "Where's the letter that was in this envelope?" # ,    " ' Clark looked , surprised. "Why, it's right there, in your other hand." "This? This is all there was? No letter from somebody else?" "Why, just that note from me, Sis. Didn't you like it? I thought that it just suited the occasion... I knew you would find it your very first chance." He smiled. "Next time you ( vant to paw through my things, let I me know and I'll help. Sometimes I have experiments running. You might get hurt. That can happen to people who aren't very bright and don't look before they leap. I wouldn't want that to happen to you , Sis." I didn't bandy any more words. I brushed past him and went to my own room and locked the door and bawled. Then I got up and did very careful things to my face. I know when Vm licked; I don't have to have a full set of working drawings. I resolved never to mention the matter to Clark again. But what was I to do? Go to. the Captain? I already knew the Captain pretty well ; his imagination extended as far as the next ballistic prediction and. no further. Tell  .   him that my brother had been smuggling something, I didn't hnqw what -- and that he had better search, the entire ship most carefully, because, whatever it was, it was not in my brother's, ropm? Don't be txiple silly,. : Poddy... In...the first place, he would laugh at you; in the second place, you don't want 'Clark to be caught. Mother and Daddy wouldn't like it. t Tell Uncle Tom about it? He might be just as unbelieving...or, if he did believe me, he might go to the Captain himself -- with just as I disastrous results. J V' .( . I decided not tp. go to Uncle Tom -- at least not yet. Instead I would y keej#' rtiy eyes and ears open and' try to find a workable answer myself.  .  ( I N any case I did not waste much time on Clark's sins (if any, I had to admit in bare honesty). I was in my first real space ship -- half way to my ambition thereby -- a n d there was much to learn and do. i Those travel brochures, are honest enough, I guess, but they do not give you the full picture. , For example, take this bit right out of the text of the Triangle Line's fancy folder: "Romantic days in ancient Marsopolis, the city older than time; exotic nights under the hurtling moons of , Mars."   r Let's rephrase it into eyry; day language, shall  Marsopolis is my home, town and I love it -- but it is v as. romantic as bread . and butter with no-tjam. The parts people live in are new and were designed for function, not fomapce.iAs for , ,tje, . ruins outside , t own t (wlyh  ,tle , .Martians ,pever arsopolis"),, a lot of   high foreheads i n c I u d i, p g  IJ)addy have seen to it .thijat the best parts are locked off, so that tourists will not carve their initials in something that was old when stone axes were the latest thing in super-weapons. Furthermore, Martian ruins are Peit'her beautiful, nor  picturesque, nor impressive to human fcyes. The way to appreciate them is to read a really good bbok by Robert A. Hbfniein with illustrations, diagrams, and simple explanations -- such as Daddy's Other Paths Than Ours . (Adv.) As for those exotic nights, anybody who is outdoors after sundown on Mars other than through sheer necessity needs to have his head examined. It's chilly out there. I've seen Deimos and Phobos at night exactly twice, each time through no fault of my own. And I was so busy keeping from freezing to death that I wasted no thought on "hurtling moons." That advertising brochure is just as meticulously accurate -- and just as deceptive in effect -- concerning the ships themselves. Oh, the Tricorn is a palace; I'll vouch for that. It really is a miracle of engineering that anything so huge, so luxurious, so fantastically adapted to the health and comfort of human beings, should be able to "hurtle" (pardon the word) through space. But take those pictures -- You know the ones I mean : Full color  depth, showing groups of handsome young people of both sexes chatting or playing games in the lounge, dancing gaily in the ballroom -- or views of a "typical stateroom." That "typical stateroom" is not a fake. No, it has simply been photographed from an angle and with a lens that makes it look at least twice as big as it is. As for those handsome, gay, young people -- well, they aren't along on the trip I'm making. It's my guess that they are professional models. In the Tricorn this trip the young and handsome passengers like those in the pictures can be counted on the thumbs of one hand. The typical passenger we have with us is a great grandmother, Terran citizenship, widowed, wealthy, making her first trip into space -- and probably her last, for she is not sure she likes it. Honest, I'm not exaggerating. Our passengers look like refugees from a geriatrics clinic. I am not scoffing at old age. I understand that it is a condition I will one day attain myself, if I go on breathing in and out enough times -- say about # more times, not counting heavy exercise. Old age can be a charming condition, as witness Uncle Tom. But old age is not an accomplishment. It is just something that happens to you despite yourself, like falling downstairs. And I must say that I am getting a wee bit tired of having youth treated as a punishable offense. O UR typical male passenger is the same sort, only not nearly so numerous. He differs from his wife primarily in that, instead of looking down his nose at me, he is sometimes inclined to pat me in a "fatherly" way that I do not find fatherly, don't like, avoid if humanly possible -- and which nevertheless gets me talked about. I suppose I should not have been surprised to find the Tricorn a super-deluxe old folks' home, but (I may as well admit it) my experience is still limited and I was not aware of some of the economic facts of life. The Tricorn is expensive. It is very expensive. Clark and I would not be in it at all if Uncle Tom had not twisted Dr. Schoenstein's arm in our behalf. Oh, I suppose Uncle Tom can afford it, but, by age group though not by temperament, he fits the defined category. But Daddy and Mother had intended to take us in the Wanderlust , a low-fare, economy-orbit freighter. Daddy and Mother are not poor, but they are not rich. After they finish raising and educating five children it is unlikely that they will ever be rich. Who can afford to travel in luxury liners? Ans. : Rich old widows, wealthy retired couples, high-priced executives whose time is so valuable that their corporations gladly send them by the fastest ships -- and an occasional rare exception of some other sort. Clark and I are such exceptions. We have one o,ther exception in the ship, Miss -- well. I'll call her Miss Girdle FitzSnugglie, because if I used her right name and perchance anybody ever sees this, it would be all too easily recognizable. I think Girdie is a good sort, I don't care what the gossips in this ship say. She doesn't act jealous of me even though it appears that the younger officers in the ship were all her personal property until I boarded -- all the trip out from Earth, I mean. I've cut into her monopoly quite a bit, but she isn't catty to me. She treats me warmly woman-to-woman, and I've learned quite a lot about Life and Men from her... more than Mother ever taught me. (It is just possible that Mother is slightly naive on subjects that Girdie knows best. A woman who tackles engineering and undertakes to beat men at their own game might have had a fairly limited social life, wouldn't you think? I must study this seriously... because it seems possible that much the same might happen to a female space pilot and it is no part of my Master Plan to become a soured old maid.) Girdie is about twice my age, which makes her awfully young in this company. Nevertheless it may be that I cause her to look just a bit wrinkled around the eyes. Contrariwise, my somewhat unfinished look may make her more mature contours appear even more Helen-of-Troyish. As may be, it is certain that my presence has relieved the by Robert A. Heinlein pressure on her by giving the gossips two targets instead of one. And gossip they do. I heard one of them say about her: "She's been in more laps than a napkin!" If so, I hope she had fun. Those gay ship's dances in the mammoth ballroom! Like this: they happen every Tuesday and Saturday night, when the ship is spacing. The music starts at # :# and the Ladies' Society for Moral Rectitude is seated around the edge of the floor, as if for a wake. Uncle Tom is there, as a concession to me, and very proudsome and distinguished he looks in evening formal. I am there in a party dress which is not quite as girlish as it was when Mother helped me pick it out, in consequence of some very careful retailoring I ha V# done with my door locked. Even Clark attends because there is nothing else going on and he's afraid he might miss something -- and looking so nice I'm proud of him, because he has 'to climb into his own monkey suit or he can't come to the ball. Over by the punch bowl are half a dozen of the ship's junior officers, dressed in mess jacket uniforms and looking faintly uncomfortable. T HE Captain, by some process known only to him, selects one of the widows and asks her to dance. Two husbands dance with their wives. Uncle Tom offers me his arm and leads me to the floor. Two or three of the junior officers follow the Captain's example. Clark takes advantage of the breathless excitement to raid the punch bowl. But nobody asks Girdie to dance. This is no accident. The Captain has given the Word (I have this intelligence with utter certainty through My Spies) that no ship's officer shall dance with Miss FitzSnugglie until he has danced at least two dances with other partners -- and I am not an "other partner," because the proscription, since leaving Mars, has been extended to me. This should be proof to anyone that a captain of a ship is in sober fact the Last of the Absolute Monarchs. There are now six or seven couples on the floor and the fun is at its riotous height. The floor will never again be so crowded. Nevertheless nine-tenths of the chairs are still occupied and you could ride a bicycle around the floor without endangering the dancers. The spectators look as if they were knitting at the tumbrils. The proper finishing touch would be a guillotine in the empty space in the middle of the floor. The music stops. Uncle Tom takes me back to my chair, then asks Girdie to dance -- since he is a Cash Customer, the Captain has not attempted to make him toe the mark. But I am still out of bounds, so I walk over to the punch bowl, take a cup out of Clark's hands, finish it, and say, "Come on, Clark. I'll let you practice on me." "Aw, it's a waltz !" (Or a "flea hop' or a "chasse," or "five step" -- but whatever it is, it is just too utterly impossible.) "Do it -- or I'll tell Madame Grew that you want to dance with her, only you're too shy to ask her." "You do and I'll trip her! I'll stumble and trip her." However, Clark is weakening, so I move in fast. "Look, Bub, you either take me out there and walk on my feet for a while -- or I'll see to it that Girdie doesn't dance with you at all." That does it. Clark is in the throes of his first case of puppy love, and Girdie is such a gent that she treats him as an equal and accepts his attentions with warm courtesy. So Clark dances with me. Actually he is quite a good dancer and I have to lead him only a tiny bit. He likes to d a n c e -- but he wouldn't want anyone, especially me, to think that he likes to dance with his sister. We don't look too badly matched, since I . am short. In the meantime Girdie I is, looking very gfood indeed with Uncle Tom, which is quite an accomplishment as Uncle  Tom dances with great enthusiasm and no rhythm. But Girdie can follow anyone. If her partner broke his leg, she would fracture her own at the same spot. But the crowd is thinning out now; husbands that danced the first dance are too tired for the second and no one has replaced them. Oh, we have gay times in the interplanetary luxury liner Tricorn! Truthfully we do have gay times. Starting with the third dance Girdie and I have our pick of the ship's officers, most of whom are good dancers, or at least have had plenty of practice. About twenty-two o'clock the Captain goes to bed and shortly after that the chaperones Start putting away their whetstones and fading, one by one. By midnight there is just Girdie and myself and half a dozen of the younger officers -- and the Purser, who has dutifully danced with every woman and now feels that he owes himself the rest of the night. He is duite a good dancer, for an old man. Oh, and there is usually Mrs. Grew, too -- but she isn't one of the chaperones and she is always nice to Girdie. She is a fat old woman, full of sin and chuckles. She doesn't expect anyone to dance with her but she likes to watch. And the officers who aren't dancing at the moment like to sit with her; she's furi. by tadbert A. Helnlein About one o'clock Uncle Tom sends Clark to tell me to Come to bed or he'll lock me out. He wouldn't, but I do -- my feet are tired. Good old Tricorn l i VI T HE Captain is slowly increasing the spin of the ship to make the fake gravity match the surface gravitation of Venus, which is # of one standard gravity or more than twice as much as I have been used to all my life. So, when I am not busy studying astrogation or ship handling, I spend much of my time in the ship's gymnasium. I want to garden myself for what is coming, for I have no intention of being at a disadvantage on. Venus in either strength or, agility. If I can adjust to an acceleration of # gee, the later transition to the full Earth-normal of one gee should be sugar pie with chocolate frosting. So I think. I usually have the gymnasium all to myself. Most of the passengers are Earthmen or Venusmen who feel no need to prepare for the heavy gravitation of Venus. Of the dozen-odd Marsmen I am the only one who seems to take seriously the cpming burden. The handful of aliens that gre  aboard the ship with us we never see; ach  "mains in his specially; conditioned state-, room. The ship's, officers do...   t use the gym. Some of them are quite fanatic about keeping fit. But they use it mostly at hours when passengers are not likely to use it. So, on this day (Ceres thirteenth actually but the Tricorn uses Earth dates and time, which made it March ninth. I don't mind the strange dates but the short Earth day is costing me a half-hour's sleep each night) -- on Ceres thirteenth I went charging into the gym, so angry I could spit venom and intending to derive a double benefit by working off my mad (at least to the point where I would not be clapped in irons for assault), and by strengthening my muscles, too. And found Clark inside, dressed in shorts and a massy bar bell. I stopped short and blurted out, "What are you doing here?" He grunted, "Weakening my mind." Well, I had asked for it. There is no ship's regulation forbidding Clark to use the v gym. His answer made sense to one schooled in his devious logic, which I certainly should be. I changed the subject, tossed aside my robe and started limbering exercises to warm ; up. "How massy?" I asked. "Sixty 'kilos."   J '     ( t .  I glancecLat a weight meter i on the wall'  loaded spring scale marked to had in fracL  f i ' t ,  . i tions of standard gee. It read "#." I did a fast rough in my mind -- fifty-two thirtysevenths of sixty -- or unit sum, plus nine hundred over thirty-seven, so add about a ninth, top and bottom for a thousand over forty, to yield twenty-five...call it the same as lifting eighty-five kilos back home on Mars. "Then why are you sweating ?" "I am not sweating !" He put the bar bell down. "Let's see you lift it." "All right." As he moved I squatted down to raise the bar bell -- and changed my mind. N OW, believe me, I work out regularly with ninety kilos at home and I had been checking that weight meter on the wall each day and loading that same bar bell to match the weight I use at home, plus a bit extra each day. My objective (hopeless, it is beginning to seem) is eventually to lift as much mass under Venus conditions as I had been accustomed to lifting at home. So I was certain I could lift sixty kilos at # of standard gee. But it is a mistake for a girl to beat a male at any test of physical strength... even when it's your brother. Most especially when it's your brother, and he has a fiendish disposition and you've suddenly had a glimmering of a way to put his fiendish proclivities to work. As I have said, if you're in a mood to hate something or somebody, Clark is the perfect partner. So I grunted and strained, making a good show, got it up to my chest, started it on up -- and squeaked, "Help me!" Clark gave a one-handed push at the center of the bar and we got it all the way up. Then I said, "Catch for me," through clenched teeth, and he eased it down. I sighed. "Gee, Clark, you must be getting awful strong." "Doing all right." It works. Clark was now as mellow as his nature permits. I suggested companion tumbling... if he didn't mind being the bottom half of the team? -- because I wasn't sure I could hold him, not at pointfive-two gee...did he mind? He didn't mind at all; it gave him another chance to be muscular and masculine -- and I was certain he could lift me; I massed eleven kilos less than the bar bell he had just been lifting. When he was smaller, we used to do quite a bit of it, with me lifting him. It was a way to keep him quiet when. I was in charge of him. Now that he is as big as I am (and stronger, I fear), we still tumble a little, but taking turns at the ground and air parts -- back home, I mean. But with my weight almost half again what it ought to be I didn't risk any fancy capers. Presently, when he had me in by Robert A. Heinlein a simple handstand over his head, I broached the subject on my mind. "Clark, is Mrs. Royer any special friend of yours ?" "Her?" He snorted and added a rude noise. "Why?" "I just wondered. She -- Mmm, perhaps I shouldn't repeat it." He said, "Look, Pod, you want me to leave you standing on the ceiling?" "Don't you dare!" "Then don't start to say something and not finish it." "All right. But steady while I swing my feet down to your shoulders." He let me do so, then I hopped down to the floor. The worst part about high acceleration is not how much you weigh, though that is bad enough, but how fast you fall. And I suspected that Clark was quite capable of leaving me head downwards high in the air if I annoyed him. "What's this about Mrs. Royer?". "Oh, nothing much. She thinks Marsmen are trash, that's all." "She does, huh? That makes it mutual." "Yes. She thinks it's disgraceful that the Line allows us to travel first class -- and the Captain certainly ought not to allow us to eat in the same mess with decent people." "Tell me more." "Nothing to tell. We're riffraff, that's all. Convicts, you know." "Interesting. Very, very interesting." "And her friend Mrs. Garcia agrees with her. But I suppose I shouldn't have repeated it. After all, they are entitled to their own opinions. Aren't they?" Clark didn't answer, which is a very bad sign. Shortly thereafter he left without a word. In a sudden panic that I might have started more than I intended to, I called after him but he just kept going. Clark is not hard of hearing, but he can be very hard of listening. So I put on a weight harness, then loaded myself down all over until I weighed as much as I would on Venus and started trotting on the treadmill until I was covered with sweat and ready for a bath and a change. Actually I did not really care what bad luck overtook those two harpies. I simply hoped that Clark's sleight-ofhand would be up to its usual high standards so that it could not possibly be traced back to him. Nor even guessed at. For I had not told Clark half of what was said. Believe you me, I had never guessed, until we were in the Tricorn, that anyone could despise other persons simply over their ancestry or where they lived. Oh, I had encountered tourists from Earth whose manners left something to be desired. But Daddy had told me that all tourists, everywhere, seem obnoxious simply because tourists are strangers who do not know local customs...and I believed it, because Daddy is never wrong. Certainly the occasional visiting professor that Daddy brought home for dinner was always charming, which proves that Earthmen do not have to have bad manners. I had noticed that the pas-, sengers in the Tricorn seemed a little bit stand-offish when we first boarded, but I did not think anything of it. After all, strangers do not run up and kiss you, even on Mars -- and we Marsmen are fairly informal, I suppose; we're still a frontier society. Besides that, most passengers had been in the ship at least from Earth. They had already formed their friendships and cliques. We were like new kids in a strange school. But I said, "Good morning!" to anyone I met in the passageway. If I was not answered I just checked it off to hard-of-hearing -- so many of them obviously could be hard of hearing. Anyhow, I wasn't terribly interested in getting chummy with passengers. I wanted to get acquainted with the ship's officers, pilot officers especially, so that I could get some practical experience to chink in Vvhat I altekily  khew :f rom i :   i i  t : ' reading. It's not easy for a girl to get accepted for pilot training ; she has to be about four times as good as a male candidate -- and every little bit helps. I got a wonderful break right away -- we were seated at the Captain's table! Uncle Tom, of course. I am not conceited enough to think that "Miss Podkayne Fries, Marsopolis" means anything on a ship's passenger list (but wait ten years !) -- whereas Uncle Tom, even though he is just my pinochle-playing, easy-going oldest relative, is nevertheless senior Senatorat-Large of the Republic, and it is certain that the Marsopolis General Agent for the Triangle Line knows this. No doubt the agent would see to it that the purser of the Tricorn would know it if he didn't already. As may be. I am not one to scorn gifts from heaven, no matter how they arrive. At our very first meal I started working on Captain Darling. That really is his name, Barrington Babcock Darling -- and does his wife call him "Baby Darling"? But of course a captain does not have a name aboard ship. He is "the Captain," "the Master," "the Skipper" or even "the Old Man" if t is a member of the ship's company speaking pot in his august presence. But never a name : -- simply a majestic, figure of impersonal authority. by Robert A. Heinleip (I wonder if I will someday be called "the Old Woman" when I am not in earshot ? Somehow it doesn't sound quite the same.) too majestic nor impersonal with me. I set out to impress him with the idea that I was awfully sweet, even younger than I am, terribly impressed by him, overawed...and not too bright. It does not do to let a male of any age know that one has brains, not on first acquaintance. Intelligence in a woman is likely to make a man suspicious and uneasy, much like Caesar's fear of Cassius's "lean and hungry look." Get a man solidly on your side first. After that it is fairly safe to let him become gradually aware of your intellect -- he may even feel unconsciously that it rubbed off from his own. So I set out to make him feel that it was a shame that I was not his daughter. (Fortunately he only has sons.) Before that first meal was over I confided in him my great yearning to take pilot training... suppressing, of course, any higher ambition. Both Uncle Tom and Clark could see what I was up to. But Uncle Tom would never give me away and Clark just looked bored and contemptuous and said nothing, because Clark would hot bother to interfere with Armageddon unless there was ten per cent in it for him. But I do not mind what my relatives think of my tactics; they work. Captain Darling was obviously amused at my grandiose and "impossible" ambition...but he offered to show me the control room. Round one to Poddy, on points. I am now the unofficial ship's mascot, with free run of the control room. And I am almost as privileged in the engineering department. Of course the Captain does not really want to spend hours teaching me the practical side of astrogation. He did show me through the control room and gave me a kindergarten explanation of the work -- which I followed with wideeyed awe -- but his interest in me is purely social. He wants to not-quite hold me in his lap (he is much too practical and too discreet to do anything of the sort!) -- so I notquite let him and make it a point to keep up my social relations with him, listening with my best astonished-kitten look to his anecdotes while he feeds me liters of tea. I really am a good listener because you never can tell when you will pick up something useful. And all in the world any woman has to do to be considered "charming" by men is to listen while they talk. But Captain Darling is not the only astrogator aboard. He gave me the run of the control room; I did the rest. The second officer, Mr. Savvonavong, thinks it is simply amazing how fast I pick up mathematics. You see, he thinks he taught me differential equations. Well, he did, when it comes to those awfully complicated ones used in correcting the vector of a constant-boost ship, but if I hadn't worked hard in the supplementary course I was allowed to take last semester, I wouldn't know what he was talking about. Now he is showing me how to program a ballistic computer. The junior third, Mr. Clancy, is still studying for his unlimited license, so he has all the study tapes and reference books I need and is just as helpful. He is near enough my age to develop groping hands...but only a very stupid male will make even an indirect pass unless a girl manages to let him know that it won't be resented. Mr. Clancy is not stupid and I am very careful to offer no opportunity. I may kiss him -- two minutes before I leave the ship for the last time. Not sooner. They are all very helpful and they think it is cute of me to be so dead serious about it. But, in truth, practical astrogation is much harder than I had ever dreamed. I had guessed that part of the resentment I sensed -- resentment that I could not fail to notice despite my cheery "Good mornings !" -- lay in the fact that we were at the Captain's table. To be sure, the "Welcome in the Tricorn!" booklet in each stateroom states plainly that new seating arrangements are made at each port and that it is the ship's custom to change the guests at the Captain's table each time, making the selections from the new passengers. But I don't suppose that warning makes it any pleasanter to be bumped. I don't expect to like it when I'm bumped off the Captain's table at Venus. But that is only part of the trouble. Only three of the passengers were really friendly to me : Mrs. Grew, Girdie and Mrs. Royer. Mrs. Royer I met first and at first I thought that I was going to like her, in a bored sort of way, as she was awfully friendly and I have great capacity for enduring boredom if it suits my purpose. I met her in the lounge the first day. She immediately caught my eye, smiled, invited me to sit by her and quizzed me about myself. I answered her questions, mostly. I told her that Daddy was a teacher and that Mother was raising babies and that my brother and I were traveling with our uncle. I didn't boast about our family. Boasting is not polite and it often by Robert A. Heinlein is not believed -- far better to let people find out nice things on their own and hope they won't notice any unnice things. Not that there is anything unnice about Daddy and Mother. I told her that my name was Poddy Fries. "'Poddy'?" she said. "I thought I saw something else on the passenger list." "Oh. It's really 'Podkayne,' " I explained. "For the Martian saint, you know." But she didn't know. She answered, "It seems very odd to give a girl a man's name." Well, my name is odd, even among Marsmen. But not for that reason. "Possibly," I agreed. "But with Martians gender is rather a matter of opinion, wouldn't you say?" She blinked. I started to explain how a Martian doesn't select which of three sexes to be until just before it matures...and how, even so, the decision is operative only during a relatively short period of its life. But I gave up, as I could see that I was talking to a blank wall. Mrs. Royer simply could not imagine any pattern other than her own. So I shifted quickly. "Saint Podkayne lived a very long time ago. Nobody actually knows whether the saint was male or female. There are just traditions." i O F course the traditions are pretty explicit and many living Martians claim descent from Saint Podkayne. Daddy says that we know years ago much more accurately than we know human history a mere two thousand years ago. In any case most Martians include "Podkayne" in their long lists of names (practically genealogies in synopsis) because of the tradition that anyone named for Saint Podkayne can call on him (or "her" -- or "it") in time of trouble. As I have said. Daddy is romantic and he thought it would be nice to give a baby the luck, if any, that is attached to the saint's name. I am neither romantic nor superstitious. But it suits me just fine to have a name that belongs to me and to no other human. I like being Podkayne "Poddy" Fries. It's better than being one of a multitude of Elizabeths or Dorothys or such. Anyway, I like it. But I could see that it simply puzzled Mrs. Royer, so we passed to other matters. Speaking from her seniority as an "old space hand" based on her one just-completed trip out from Earth, she told me a great many things about ships and space travel. Most of them weren't so, but I indulged her. She introduced me to a number of people and handed me a large quantity of gossip about passengers, ship's officers, et cetera. Between times she filled me in on her aches, pains and symptoms, what an important executive her son was, what a very important person her late husband had been and how, when I reached Earth, she really must see to it that I met the Right People. "Perhaps such things don't matter in an outpost like Mars, my dear child, but it is Terribly Important to get Started Right in New York." I tabbed her as garrulous, stupid and well intentioned. But I soon found that I couldn't get rid of her. If I passed through the lounge -- which I had to do in order to reach the control room -- she would snag me and I couldn't get away short of abrupt rudeness or flat lies. She quickly started using me for chores. "Podkayne darling, would you mind just slipping around to my stateroom and fetching my mauve wrap? I feel a tiny chill. It's on the bed I think, or perhaps in the wardrobe -- that's a dear." Or, "Poddy child, I've rung and I've rung and the stewardess simply won't answer. Would you get my book and my knitting? Oh, and while you're at it, you might bring me a nice cup of tea from the pantry." Those things aren't too bad ; she is probably creaky in the knees and I'm not. But it went on endlessly...and shortly, in addition to being her personal stewardess, I was her private nurse. First she asked me to read her to sleep. "Such a blinding headache and your voice is so soothing, my sweet." I read to her for an hour and then found myself rubbing her head and temples for almost as long. Oh well, a person ought to manage a little kindness now and then, just for practice. And Mother sometimes has dreadful headaches when she has been working too hard; I know that a rub does help. That time she tried to tip me. I refused it. She insisted. "Now, now, child, don't argue with your Aunt Flossie." I said, "No really, Mrs. Royer. If you want to give it to the fund for disabled spacement as a thank-you, that's all right. But I can't take it. She said pish and tosh and tried to shove it into my pocket. So I slid out and went to bed. I didn't see her at breakfast ; she always has a tray in her room. But about midmorning a stewardess told me that Mrs. Royer wanted to see me in her room. I was hardly gruntled at the summons, as Mr. Sawonavong had told me that if I showed up just before ten during his watch, I could watch the whole process of a ballistic correction and he would explain the steps to me. If she wasted more than five minutes of my time, I would be late. by Robert A. Heinlein But I called on her. She was as cheery as ever. "Oh, there you are, darling! I've been waiting ever so long! That stupid stewardess. Poddy dear, you did such wonders for my head last night... and this morning I find that I'm positively cripple d with my back -- you can't imagine, dear; it's ghastly ! Now if you'll just be an angel and give me a few minutes massage -- oh, say a half hour -- I'm sure it'll do wonder for me. You'll find the cream for it over there on the dressing table, I think...and now if you'll just help me -- " "Mrs. Royer." "Yes, dear? The cream is in that big pink tube. Use just -- "  'Mrs. Royet, I canT do it. I have an appointment' "What, dear? Oh, t#sh, let ' them wait. No one is ever on time aboard ship. Perhaps you had better warm your hands before -- " ' '   "Mrs. Royer, I am not goin g : to do  it. If' somethin g i s wrong with your  back, ' I shouldn't .touch it. I might injure you.B.ut I'll take a mes sage to the Surgeon! if you like and ask him. to come see you." Suddenly she wasn't at all cheery. "You mean you won't do it!" "Have it your way. Shall I tell the Surgeon ?"  "Why, you impertinent -- Get out of here!" : T : got. "      I ' I : I met her in a I passageway on my way to lunch. She stared straight through me, so I didn't speak either. She was walking as nimbly as I was; I guess her back had taken a turn for the better. I saw her twice more that day and twice more she simply couldn't see me. The following morning I was using the viewer in the lounge to scan one of Mr. Clancy's study tapes, one on radar approach  contact. The viewer is off in a corner, behind a screen of fake potted palms, and perhaps they didn't notice me. Or perhaps they didn't care. I stopped the scan to give my eyes and ears a rest, and heard Mrs. Garcia talking to Mrs. Royer :  " -- that I simply can't stand about Mars is ( that it is so commercialized. Why couldn't they , have, Ipft i.t primitive and beautiful?" , Mrsw Royer ; "What . can you expect ? , Those , dxeadful people!" : ", , i . The ship's official language is Ortho: but many passengers talk English among  themselves--and often act as if no one else could possibly understand it. These two weren't keeping their voices down. I went on listening. Mrs. Garcia: "Just what I was saying to Mrs. Rimski. After all, they're all criminals." Mrs Royer : "Or  worse. Have you noticed that little Martian girl ? The niece--or # so they clainvr-of that big black savage?"   I counted ten backwards in Old Martian and reminded myself of the penalty for murder. I didn't mind being called a "Martian." They didn't know any better and, anyhow, it's no insult ; the Martians were civilized before humans learned to walk. But "big black savage"! Uncle Tom is as dark as I am blonde; his Maori blood and desert tan make him the color of beautiful old leather...and I love the way he looks. As for the rest -- he is learned and civilized and gentle... and highly honored wherever he goes. Mrs. Garcia: "I've seen her. Common, I would say. Flashy but cheap. A type that attracts a certain sort of man." Mrs. Royer: "My dear, you don't know the half of it. I've tried to help her. I really felt sorry for her, and I always believe in being gracious, especially to one's social inferiors." Mrs. Garcia: "Of course, dear." Mrs. Royer: "I tried to give her a few hints as to proper conduct among gentle people. Why, I was even paying her for little trifles, so that she wouldn't be uneasy among her betters. But she's an utterly ungrateful little snip. She thought . she could squeeze moire money out of me. She was rude about it, so rude that I feared for my safety.' I had to order her out of my room, actually." Mrs. Garcia : "You were wise to drop her. Blood will tell. Bad blood or good blood, blood will always tell. And mixed blood is the Very Worst Sort. Criminals to start with... and then that Shameless Mixing of Races. You can see it right in that family. The boy doesn't look a bit like his sister, and as for the uncle -- Hmmm...my dear, you half way hinted at something. Do you suppose that she is not his niece but something, shall we say, a bit closer?" "I wouldn't put it past either one of them!" "Oh, come, 'fess up, Flossie. Tell me what you found out." Mrs. Royer : "I didn't say a word. But I have eyes -- and so have you." Mrs. Garcia: "Right in front of everyone!" Mrs. Royer : "What I can't understand is why the Line permits them to mix with us . Perhaps they have to sell them passage -- treaties or some such n o n s. e,n s e -- but we shouldn't be forced to associate with them... and certainly not to eat with them!" Mrs. Garcia: "I know. I'm going to write a very strong letter about it as soon as I get home. There are limits. You know, I had thought that Captain Darling was a gentleman...but when I saw those creatures actually seated at the Captain's table -- well, I didn't i , by Robert A. Hein lei n   i... believe my eyes. I thought I would faint," Mrs. Royer. "I know. But after all, the Captain does come from Venus." Mrs. Garcia: "Yes, but Venus was never a prison colony. That boy...he sits in the very chair I used to sit in, right across from the Captain." (I made a mental note to ask the Chief steward for a different chair for Clark; I didn't want him contaminated.) us "Martians" and started dissecting Girdie and complaining about the food and the service, and even stuck pins in some of their shipboard coven who weren't present. But I didn't listen. I simply kept quiet and prayed for strength to go on doing so -- because if I had made my presence known I feel sure that I would have stabbed them both with their own knitting needles. Eventually they left, to rest a while to fortify themselves for lunch. I rushed out and changed into my gym suit and hurried to the gymnasium to work up a good sweat instead of engaging in violent crime. It was there that I found Clark and told him just enough -- or maybe a little bit too much, Mr. Savvonavong had told me that we were likely to have a radiation storm almost any time. The solar weather station on Mercury reported "flare" weather shaping up and warned all ships in space to be ready for it. I knew that when I told Clark, but I didn't think there would be any connection. I was wrong. I 'T  I '  ) In the next big issue of IF -- by Clifford D. Simak by Frederik Pohl -- plusPart Two of Heinlein's great new novel Podkayne of Mars, additional shprt stories and novelettes, features, etc. January issue qn sale Npyember J#th -- ask your newsdealer to reserve your copy! IF  Short Story Stacks of hundred-dollar bills -- but sadly, almost all of them were genuine! C wing is genuine old fold in Washington's left eyefake' Stahl told the two tourlid Stahl re jilied, tightly, enists while his wife clung circlihg his' Wife's waifct; hs if , proudly, tp his ami. Like him, ' showing off all hlS' finest osshe was tall, ) blpnd J e and, ims'esfcidnk I simultaneously He , ppjptjly good-looking... glanded at Tinkeriai cybetfict, EWen this sttopgbpx money icist who, like SitiitH, had ,#s. fyiest American countersent several requests to sfee the fell, she said... famous Suite of I Artifices. "May I see it?" asked "Ever try collecting?" ;  Smith. The lifeless face of the "Not money," Tinker anmathematician brightened as swered, eyes still on Mrs. he peered through the quartz Stahl. top at a dollar bill marked "Got the 'Mongoloid' bill W#A. "I can only get five years ago, same year as the worthless real stuff. AnI got Mary." He gave his wife cient governments always dean even more ostentatious strpyed counterfeits. But squeeze. Smith stared at her, you're in Economic Planning, too, but more with dull disso it mut bfc easier to get ; satisfaction than desire. "Fifgood fakes." teen bills in the box now -- hut "Only the merest imperfecI've still only one wife." "Fifteen!" exclaimed Smith, "The rich get richer and the poor stay poor." "The wallpape r," Stahl smoothly proceeded, "is a replica of Italian murals. If you adjust your focus properly the flat columns become solids through the art of vanishingpoint perspective." "Excellent period distortion of Greek styles," said Tinker, studying the columns. "And those three chairs are fine copies of Chippendale. You're to be complimented on your taste in everything, Stahl." "You really know ancient designs," Stahl said. "Genuine old copies are even scarcer than their originals. And originals, of course, can never be quite as good," "Sometimes I don't see why," Smith muttered. They all looked shocked. "Smith, you need a checkup," Tinker advised. "You sound rundown. How can we progress without imitating past achievements ?" "A little rundown," Smith admitted, "but... Oh, let's forget it." "Let's," Stahl nodded, striving to recapture the pair's attention as they went on through the Suite. "Notice the paintings. Those two are excellent pseudo-Braques and in the last room were fine fakes of Van Gogh, Picasso and Chardin. In fact," he pointed toward a Gauguin-like nude, all flattened sensuousness, "that one's as close to a real Gauguin as an imitation can go without being a mere reproduction." They all gasped and even Smith shook his head reverently. "To be that close to the real thing! It's all you'd ever need." "Becoming more possible all the time." Tinker grinned suggestively at Mrs. Stahl. She looked back, mildly interested. "We'll get there eventually." Happily oblivious to everything but his collections, Stahl led them into the library. One wall, covered with rows of book spines, swung around to reveal a wellstocked bar. There was also a large bar across the room which quickly became a library of real books and recording systems. "I'm not much for eating and drinking," Smith protested feebly. "Who is?" Mrs. Stahl laughed. "But this must be a special occasion for you." Eyes bulging nervously. Smith ran his fingers through his luxuriant hair and sighed, "Special it is. All right." Stahl casually mixed drinks for them all and sipped an Old Fashioned. "I've concentrated somewhat more on the twentieth century of the Old Times than any other," he said. "A particularly intriguing century, I find, although not crucial like the twenty-first, of course." "The crucial one," Tinker protested. "As a fellow antiquarian I must beg to differ, sir." "What about rocket travel, Mr. Stahl? When did that begin?" "Old hat," he yawned. "And atomic energy?" "Same applies there. Look, Tinker, don't get me wrong. I love the period. But, objectively viewed, the twentyfirst makes the great difference." "And what about duplication of life functions, like the mechanical heart? That really got started in the twentieth." "Absolutely right," Smith nodded vigorously. "All strictly mechanical," Stahl sighed. "But the twenty-first turned the study of pain and pleasure itself from an art into a true science." "No, no," scoffed the cyberneticist. Stahl pounded the bar. "All right. I'm going to prove it by putting on an All-Sense Feeliescope of Thomas Dyall. It's fully sense-adapted, so it should pick up perfectly." "Hope it isn't noisy," said Smith. "It's beautiful answered Mary Stahl. "I could listen to it all day." The odor of damp, newmown grass filled the room and another more elusive scent mingled with it. Entry of June #rd , #, said an impersonal, mechanical voice, from the journal of Thomas Dyall, elected World's First Poet Laureate in # . A warm rich bass took over: This morning I rode far out to reach open countryside in the preserved areas to replenish my stock of sensory experiences. As I was walking along through the woods, the most delicious scent struck my nostrils. I immediately recognized new-mown grass in it but the factor making the true difference escaped me until I realized the faint odor belonged to roses. At r that point, my senses reeling with delight, I composed in my mind most of my long poem, The Nature of Nature , grasping intuitively an experience more intense, more valuable, than any "real" one. I say intuitively because I still thought the odor was merely that of grass and roses. A minute afterwards, though, I came into a clearing, spotted a forest ranger's cottage there and discovered that the scent was from a recently-improved insecticide that the ranger's wife was using in the living room. There was little grass in the area and not a single rose! The following note, interrupted the monotone voice, by Albert Teichner was added by the author in the year # : Here in "real" life the great guiding principle of my future was brought home to me. The welldone imitation of a thing was better than the thing itself! This was the lesson I had to disseminate for all humanity. "Interesting," Tinker said, "although we all know now that one thing cannot be substituted for. Also -- " "No discussion now," pleaded Smith. "You need a while to consider all that. Anyway, I've been thinking about your bill, Stahl. That wasn't a fold on Washington's eyelid, just a tiny inkstain. It's genuine" "It can't be," Stahl snapped and angrily led them back to the first room. "Tinker, I want you as my witness." He handed the bill around and Smith had to concede it was really counterfeit. "What's that next one?" he asked. "A ten." Stahl hesitated, then took it off the pile along with three others and passed them to the visitors, showing off fine points of imitation. When he collected the bills he carefully made certain there were still five and locked them up again. "What about another drink?" Smith asked hastily. "No." Tinker sat down in a large chair. "Let's straighten out something right now, Stahl. Dyall was making the first crude statement of an obvious truth. If we have a pleasant sensation it doesn't matter whether it's caused by a rose or a chemical imitation of a rose or by making a brain imagine a rose -- doesn't matter except that the real rose itself is the hardest thing to control. So it can't be as intensely real as its imitations." "Mr. Tinker, isn't that crucial enough for you?" Mrs. Stahl asked. Her voice was so rich and warmly rounded that Smith stared wonderingly at her, as if trying to fathom an alien tongue. "Not quite," Tinker shrugged. "Stahl, you're discussing the smallest aspect of the three-part equation, StimulusStimulated Body  Experience. Your poet was saying certain changes in Stimulus would still give a Stimulated Body the same Experience as the original. But the philosophers and cyberneticists, they already suspected something more radical. If the Stimulated Body was properly changed the same Stimulus could give different Bodies the same Experience. In other words, a properly-arranged process would have the same Experience as the life function for which it was substituted." "Now then," he went on, "all life reproduces itself, right? Well, they finally figured the most important thing to reproduce was a man's Experience itself, not any particular form of Stimulated Body. Of course we have higher ideals. We want the Stimulated Body to be as nearly like what it was as possible -- then we can have the best of all possible worlds." "Some people," Smith grumbled, "don't get their fair share of that best." "Anyway I hate all theories," said Mrs. Stahl. Stahl disregarded them as he stared at his cashbox. "My money," he said ominously, "has been changed!" The two visitors exchanged nervous glances. "That's not possible," said Tinker. "It is. Somebody's palmed a real one as a substitute!" "That's very unfair," Smith protested. "We came here as guests, strangers to you and to each other. We've given you the correct degree of envious admiration and now you show your gratitude for our human reaction by saying we're deranged!" Stahl was unmoved. "I still say it's been stolen." He opened the box. "See -- the dollar's different! When the people of the Old Times made us their heirs and children they left piles of this real stuff around along with almost everything else they'd made. It's practically worthless !" Tinker frowned uncertainly. "If it makes you feel better I'll submit to a lie-detector. I hope you're capable of feeling shame when it proves my innocence !" "Good enough," said Stahl, turning expectantly to his other guest. As he waited. Smith pulled back a little. "Well?" Mary smiled, moving a little toward him. Smith leaped away from her, heading toward an open window, but the others moved faster and grabbed him before he reached the wall. "What's the matter with you anyway?" Tinker grunted, straining to hold him. "The window's painted on the wall !" Smith slumped forward in despair as Stahl triumphantly wormed the valued counterfeit from his pocket. "I can't do anything right," Smith wailed. "I heard about this collection and thought I could manage to get one little thing for myself. I haven't been given much else by life." "You -- you defective!" Stahl shouted. Smith only slumped further forward. "How can I help it? The Monte Carlo computer gave me one of the last places for advanced altering and I have to wait and wait. Compared to you, I'm still a halfbreed !" "Don't hand me that," Stahl snapped. "I didn't mean physical defects. You look as normal as anyone else." "No, darling, I think he's by Albert Teichner telling the truth," Mary said sympathetically. "When altering began it was only skindeep for all of us." "I'll bet you're sixty per cent altered already," Smith cried out. "It's my bad luck to be only twenty-five per cent so far. All I can do is look at her and wonder why the two of you make such a fuss." The cyberneticist tried to calm him. "Your turn's com  mg. "I have to find out what it's about sooner than that!" Tinker sighed. "I'll try to get your number advanced." "Let him wait his turn," Stahl said coldly. "He's faking a lot anyway." At that Smith broke free from them and pressed his back to the optical illusion window. "Don't come closer," he warned. "I don't have much to lose." They stopped a few feet away and waited. Suddenly he raised his left hand to his face and dug the long nails in a semicircle into his flesh. As a thin stream of locally circulated blood gushed out, he dug deeper and the eyeball fell forward, quivering, on his cheek. "He was telling the truth!" Stahl gasped, pointing at the glittering metal bits within the eyesocket. A glowing wire was slowly evaporating on the retinal plate as optical feedback collapsed. tinker, all professional competence now hfelpefl I '  ' I '  ,.!   ; I I I . i . "  Smith to a chair. "We'll be able to repair you in a month," he said, "because you've a simpler arrangement, and I can promise you'll have as good an electro-chemical near-cortex as anybody. And the other more interesting changes too." Stahl glanced at his wife, then, as she nodded back, slowly put his precious counterfeit into the dangling hand. He was pleased to see enough consciousness was still functioning enough for the fingers to close greedily around it. "Keep it," he said, "you deserve it more than me." Suddenly he realised he was feeling not only shame but pity too! It was the first time for pity -- and that meant he was one step further on his own journey. How far that journey had already taken him! For, when humanized them, the humans had possessed sufficient understanding to pass the dead world on to the superiorwisdom of their creations. If they had been unable to foresee what would eventually happen, Stahl and his fellow robots could. Some day the supreme knowledge and the supreme feeling would be perfectly wedded, the day they became truly humanoid copies of their makers.  He moved forward, Tinkerfollowing him, to help his felt low creature closer to thati   J I I  I; i ; A I  , f   fIF  Short Story There they were, on the threshhold of life -- a life that might be unbearably, terribly long! S O they went on down there, with all along the big fat glove signs pointing at them, squirting -- not blood -- merely reminder in color, out of something like beet juice or wine -- and the highway signs saying constantly metal teardrop held down at two hundred, just "cruising 'er" on the nylon strip designed to hold them at four hundred, or, in emergency, better still. "I hope," he said through his fine white-metal teeth, "that the quota is filled. So much to do tomorrow -- and tomorrow." "Yes!" she said through lips that had been sculpted by surgery until now they resembled a red rose bouquet, "so much to do -- tonight !" She was his bride of five days. They rolled under the dancing signs where two super Whooshies crashed at each other on a ribbon-road of silk until legs and arms piled out and a red fluid filled the multiple lanes. She laughed low and chesty from a larynx that had been done in gold-x against cancer long ago and said, "What'll they think of next to remind us? Too many of us now, heaven knows. But all the time they keep pleading with us not to kill ourselves." "If we get by the quota," he said, "sometime we'll take a run across on that new Super they're building in the north. They say they really got signs up there!" He eased the little Whooshie up to two-fifty and still they were just crawling. Two super Speartakes, a dozen or so of the Flashbugs and a hundred Windstars swept past them as though they were standing aside. " I want our next one to be a Caddiscat," she said. "Everybody's getting a Caddiscat." He looked at her and thought he detected again something he had feared a long time ago, right at first, ten days ago, when it had started. But in the fogged flush of romance he had forgot. And now after the long five-day courtship they were bride and groom five days. And he had to admit that the nights had all been wonderful, with their great love between them, and the novel gadgets and attachments they had both brought to the marriage, to stimulate and relax them together. But now that nagging doubt again as he looked at the rather grim set of the red roses that were her lips. Was she just another scheming, ambitious woman? He began to dream of a posquota, alone. And he felt guilty. But glancing at her as he expertly held the Whooshie to a curve above which two purple sign ambulances danced, he had to admit that after the fourth night, even with all the tricks, it had grown a little stale. "Hungry?" She bounced on her whitenyloned bottom in the little seat of the Whooshie. It was plain that his abrupt question had brought her back from a long way out. "No -- no," she stammered. "I couldn't eat." "What were you thinking of, so far away?" T HE roses climbed over each other for a little while like a pile of snakes as she licked her lips and could not speak. And when she said, "I was just thinking how awful if they had took only one of us on the quota," he wasn't at all sure she was telling the truth. "Was he awfully interesting?" "Who?" "The one you were remembering, away out there." The rose bouquet swirled and she was all woman when she said, "You are the most interesting I've ever met." "Thanks," he said. : "Not as many tricks, maybe. But what you do know, you know better." "Gee, thanks!" he said. So the little Whooshie rolled on down toward the place where the quota was. The quota man for their district sat behind a bright orange desk, his horn-rims modern slant and jeweled very nicely. His chair was pale green. On his desk were objects of quaint joy -- dancing flowers, little girls going to school, cats in the sun, barefoot boys in a melon patch, a mother spreading rash powder on a dry diaper; above him his ceiling was all pink lights. "We're here about the quota," the man said. "We got our notice for the quarterly check-in." She nodded in agreement and her lips were a little scared. "Names?" He gave his name; she gave hers. Then the husband helpfully explained how the wife had changed her name but five days ago, and he told loud and clear what her old name had been. Perhaps she was on the list by her old name. "So you're here about our Emergency Program quota?" The smile that flickered out and. the jut-jawed careful pose reminded a little of glory picture there had once been of dictators in the. world. But his .eye, were smiling brightly, as he flicked the switch and the list climbed down the wall... It was plain that he wished this to be, if not a time of joy, at least not a time of scenes, "It is much better than it used to be," he said as. the list raced op in the wall viewer, "much changed. Some, people are volunteering now , for the Emergency: Program quota. To get a rest from a mate, to relax from a business, or dozens of other good reasons. And every volunteer, of course, releases a draftee." He looked at them as if pleading for understanding.' "It's congestion on the civil highways, '   ' i really, as much as the. avyful climb of the , rate that makes the Program, so necessary. So maybe when we get more highways things will be better. When the surface is till taken up, which it will be soon now, there's no reason in the world we can't go upstairs with our tough light alloys and build any number of layers of highways. Flying's all right, rockets and all, but we'll always need good old leisurely wheels down there zipping on terra firma." He seemed to be .keeping up his patter to relax them. T HE list flowed on in the walk mile after mile of it, while they watched tensely but could not read the names moving swiftly. The quota man, not watching, twirled ' half circles on his green swivel, his finger tips, seeming vto meet around i.some very .definite # ball of akv.Hiv eyes, detached, were .loafing in some far country, but his attitude otherwise was one of .listening casually ; as vhe italked. on of the Program? and x why it had to be.  When the, .sharp pheep came out of the wall, he stopped, the lit at f opce. There bracketed by. two green stars, was her name, her name of five . days ago..."That'll do . it for now," he said, big-yoiced and .cheerful, smiling, his eyesihopeipjly at her. fromthe .green.' swivel. "Fills the qyptl Apntly your husband has just got out  V V .V ;  t.'ivr 't'ii-l by David R. Bunch on a volunteer, ha ha. You see, I didn't have to watch the list, because when you spoke your names, the list knew, ha ha." When the screams broke from her lips and the roses writhed in torture, he took the necessary things from his desk drawer and raced to her. He had seen them do this before, many times, usually from a lack of preparation and gross unfamiliarity with the Program. "It will be the most restful ten years of your life," he insisted soothingly as he expertly pumped green fluid through a puncture he had made in her left arm. "And once a year," he talked on as he soothed and petted her with the frozen relaxer pad, "usually in June, in our new improved system, we bring them back and allow them one visitor, the visitor of their choice, if possible. In a very private little cell for a full hour! Now, isn't that fine?" His eyes leered at the husband. "Usually in cases like this there's no doubt who the visitor will be. Unless of course he too has been drafted. But it's just for the ten years, after all, and then someone else takes your place in this necessary rotation. So much better, we feel, than either of the other two possible ways of solving the problem -- drastic regimentation of the rate or outright reduction through perma-rieep, ha ha. And, who knows, with the new building program and a fuller enlistment in Volunteers for Rate Control, we might be able to reduce the time." and the highway condition especially, he led her away, dazed and wooden now from the green fluid and the numbing relaxer pad. Her husband of five days, having escaped the draft by the grace of a volunteer, left fast in his little Whooshie. As he headed north toward the new Super, he waved vaguely in the direction of the place where she would be for ten years. Actually he was so tired of her already that right now he doubted if he would ever be back. But up on the northern Super, and getting a little lonely, he decided it would probably be fun once a year to be able to go back and supplement other activities with a wife. But wait! Just as he was wheeling his Whooshie past an animated sign that showed two sports Caddiscats battling m boxing shorts the dread fear seized him anew. With the birth rate what it was and had been and with the highways becoming more and more congested all the time no doubt he too would soon be drafted into the Program. There, with the special fluids, to lie like an egg, like a cold stick of wood, like a dead man...for ten years...m a y b e longer... maybe forever... in the crowded earth's Cold IF  Novelette The Aga Kaga wanted peace -- a piece of everything in sight! TO llT'M not at all sure," Un-A-der-Secretary Sternwheeler said, "that I fully understand the necessity for your.  ah...absenting yourself from your post of duty, Mr. Retief. Surely this matter could have been dealt with in the usual way -- assuming any action is necessary." "I had a sharp attack of writer's cramp, Mr. Secretary," Retief said. "So I thought I'd better come along in person -- just to be sure I was positive of making my point." "Eh?" "Why, ah, there were a number of dispatches," Deputy Under-Secretary Magnan put in. "Unfortunately, this being end-of-the-fiscal-year time, we found ourselves quite inundated with reports. Reports, reports, reports -- " "Not criticizing the reporting system, are you, Mr. Magnan?" the Under-Secretary barked. "Gracious, no," Magnan said. "I love reports." "It seems nobody's told the Aga Kagans about fiscal years," Retief said. "They're going right ahead with their program of land-grabbing on Flamme. So far, I've persuaded the Boyars that this is a matter for the Corps, and not to take matters into their own hands." The Under-Secretary nodded. "Quite right. Carry on along the same lines. Now, if there's nothing further -- " "Thank you, Mr. Secretary," Magnan said, rising. "We certainly appreciate your guidance." "There is a little something further," said Retief, sitting solidly in his chair. "What's the Corps going to do about the Aga Kagans?" The Under-Secretary turned a liverish eye on Retief. "As Minister to Flamme, you should know that the function of a diplomatic representative is merely to... what shall I say... ?" "String them along?" Magnan suggested. "An unfortunate choice of phrase," the Under-Secretary said. "However, it embodies certain realities of Galactic politics. The Corps must concern itself with matters of broad policy." "Sixty years ago the Corps was encouraging the Boyars to settle Flamme," Retief said. "They were assured of Corps support." "I don't believe you'll find that in writing," said the Under-Secretary blandly. "In any event, that was sixty years ago. At that time a foothold against Neo-Concordiatist elements was deemed desirable. Now the situation has changed' "The Boyars have spent sixty years terraforming FI amine," Retief said. "They've cleared jungle, descummed the seas, irrigated deserts, set out forests. They've just about reached the point where they can begin to enjoy it. The Aga Kagans have picked this as a good time to move in. They've landed thirty detachments of 'fishermen' -- complete with armored trawlers mounting # mm infinite repeaters -- and another two dozen parties of 'homesteaders' -- all male and toting rocket launchers." "Surely there's land enough on the world to afford space to both groups," the Undersecretary said. "A spirit of co-operation -- " 'T'HE Boyars needed some co-operation sixty years ago," Retief said. "They tried to get the Aga Kagans to join in and help them beat back some of the saurian wild life that liked to graze on people. The Corps didn't like the idea. They wanted to see an undisputed anti-Concordiatist enclave. The Aga Kagans didn't want to play, either. But now that the world is tamed, they're moving in." "The exigencies of diplomacy require a flexible policy -- " I want a firm assurance of Corps support to take back to Flamme," Retief said. "The Boyars are a little naive. They don't understand diplomatic triple-speak. They just want to hold onto the homes they've made out of a wasteland." "I'm warning you, Retief!" the Under-Secretary snapped, leaning forward, wattles quivering. "Corps policy with regard to Flamme includes no inflammatory actions based on outmoded concepts. The Boyars will have to accommodate themselves to the situation !" "That's what I'm afraid of," Retief said. "They're not going to sit still and watch it happen. If I don't take back concrete evidence of Corps backing, we're going to have a nice hot little shooting war on our hands." The Under-Secretary pushed out his lips and drummed his fingers on the desk. "Confounded hot-heads," he muttered. "Very well, Retief. I'll go along to the extent of a Note; but positively no further." "A Note? I was thinking of something more like a squadron of Corps Peace Enforcers running through a few routine maneuvers off Flamme." "Out of the question. A stiffly worded Protest Note is the best I can do. That's final." Back in til# eorrtdoc, Maghr Keith Laeaier nan turned to Retief. "When; will you learn not to argue; with Under-Secretaries? One would think you actively dis liked the idea of ever receiving a promotion. I was astonished at the Under-Secretary's restraint. Frankly, I was stunned when he actually agreed to a Note. I, of course, will have to draft it." Magnan pulled at his lower lip thoughtfully. "Now, I wonder, should I view with deep concern an act of open agression, or merely point out an apparent violation of technicalities..." "Don't bother," Retief said. "I have a draft all ready to go. "But how -- ?" "I had a feeling I'd get paper instead of action," Retief said. "I thought I'd save a little time all around." "At times, your cynicism borders on impudence." "At other times, it borders on disgust. Now, if you'll run the Note through for signature, I'll try to catch the six o'clock shuttle." "Leaving so soon? There's an important reception tonight. Some of our biggest names will be there. An excellent opportunity for you to join in the diplomatic giveand-take." "No, thanks. I want to get back to Flamme and join in something mild, like a dinosaw hunt." "When you get there," said Mgan liQpeyop'll make it quite clear that this matter is to be settled without violence." "Dont worry. I'll keep the peace, if I have to start a war to do it." O N the broad verandah at Government House, Retief settled himself comfortably in a lounge chair. He accepted a tall glass from a white-jacketed waiter and regarded the flamboyant Flamme sunset, a gorgeous ple that reflected from a still lake, tinged the broad lawn with color, silhouetted tall poplars among flower beds. "You've done great things here in sixty years, Georges," said Retief. "Not that natural, geological processes wouldn't have produced the same resuits, given a couple of hun"Don't belabor the point," the Boyar Chef d'Regime said. "Since we seem to bo on the verge of losing it." "You're forgetting the Note." "A Note," Georges said, waving his cigar. "What the purple polluted hell is a Note supposed to do? I've got Aga Kagan claimjumpers camped in the middle of what used to be a fine stand of barley, cooking sheep's brains over" dung fires not ten miles from Government House -- and up- wind at that. "Say, if that's the same bar ley you distill youfc whiskey from, I'd call that a first-class atrocity." "Retief, on your say-so, I've kept my boys on a short leash. They've put up with plenty. Last week, while you were away, these barbarians sailed that flotilla of armor-plated junks right through the middle of one of our best oyster breeding beds. It was all I could do to keep a bunch of our men from going out in private helis and blasting 'em out of the water." "That wouldn't have been good for the oysters, either." "That's what I told 'em. I also said you'd be back here in a few days with something from Corps HQ. When I tell 'em all we've got is a piece of paper, that'll be the end. There's a strong vigilante organization here that's been outfitting for the last four weeks. If I hadn't held them back with assurances that the care of this invasion, they would have hit them before now." a mistake," said Retief. "The Aga Kagans are tough customers. They're active on half a dozen worlds at the moment. They've been building up for this push for the last five years. A show of resistance by you Boyars without Corps backing would be an invitation to slaughter -- with the excuse that you started it." "So what are we going to do? Sit here and watch these goat-herders take over our farms and fisheries?" "Those goat-herders aren't all they seem. They've got a first-class modern navy." "I've seen 'em. They camp in goat-skin tents, gallop around on animal-back, wear dresses down to their ankles --  "The 'goat-skin' tents are a high-polymer plastic, made in the same factory that turns out those long flowing bulletproof robes you mention. The animals are just for show. Back home they use helis and ground cars of the most modern design." The Chef d'Regime chewed his cigar. "Why the masquerade?" "Something to do with internal policies, I suppose." "So we sit tight and watch 'em take our world away from us. That's what I get for playing along with you, Retief. We should have clobbered these monkeys as soon as they set foot on our world." "Slow down, I haven't finished yet. There's still the Note." "I've got plenty of paper already. Rolls and rolls of it." "Give diplomatic processes a chance," said Retief. "The Note hasn't even been delivered yet. Who knows? We may get surprising results." "If ypu expect me to supply a runner for the purpose, you're out of luck,. From what .fey Keith Manner I hear, he's likely to come back with his ears stuffed in his hip pocket' "I'll deliver the Note personally' Retief said. "I could use a couple of escorts -- preferably strong-arm lads' The Chef d'Regime frowned, blew out a cloud of smoke. "I wasn't kidding about these Aga Kagans," he said. "I hear they have some nasty habits. I don't want to see you operated on with the same knives they use to skin out the goats." "I'd be against that myself. Still, the mail must go through." "Strong-arm lads, eh? What have you got in mind, Retief?" "A little muscle in the background is an old diplomatic custom," Retief said. The Chef d'Regime stubbed out his cigar thoughtfully. "I used to be a pretty fair elbow-wrestler myself," he said. "Suppose I go along...?" "That," said Retief, "should lend just the right note of solidarity to our little delegation." He hitched his chair closer. "Now, depending on what we run into, here's how we'll play it..." II ing granite hills west of the capital, a black-painted official air-car flying the twin flags of Chief of State and Terrestrial Minister skimmed along a foot above a pot-holed road. Slumped in the padded seat, the Boyar Chef d'Regime waved his cigar glumly at the surrounding hills. "Fifty years ago this was bare rock," he said. "We've bred special strains of bacteria here to break down the formations into soil, and we followed up with a program of broad-spectrum fertilization. We planned to put the whole area into crops by next year. Now it looks like the goats will get it." . "Will that scrubland support a crop?" Retief said, eyeing the lichen-covered knolls. "Sure. We start with legumes and follow up with cereals. Wait until you see this next section. It's an old flood plain, came into production thirty years ago. One of our finest -- " The air-car topped a rise. The Chef dropped his cigar and half rose, with a hoarse yell. A herd of scraggly goats tossed their heads among a stand of ripe grain. The car pulled to a stop. Retief held the Boyar's arm. "Keep calm, Georges," he said. "Remember, we're on a diplomatic mission. It wouldn't do to come to the conference table smelling of goats." "Let me at 'em!" Georges roared. "I'll throttle 'em with my bare hands!"  A bearded goat eyed the Boyar Chef sardonically, jaw working. "Look at that longnosed son!" The goat gave a derisive bleat and took another mouthful of ripe grain. "Did you see that?" Georges yelled. "They've trained the son of a -- " "Chin up, Georges," Retief said. "We'll take up the goat problem along wit!: the rest." "I'll murder 'em!" "Hold it, Georges. Look over there." A hundred yards away, a trio of brown-cloaked horsemen topped a rise, paused dramatically against the cloudless pale sky, then galloped down the slope toward the car, rifles bobbing at their backs, cloaks billowing out behind. Side by side they rode, through the browngolden grain, cutting three narrow swaths that ran in a straight sweep from the ridge to the air-car where Retief and the Chef d'Regime hovered, waiting. Georges scrambled for the side of the car. "Just wait 'til I get my hands on him!" Retief pulled him back. "Sit tight and look pleased, Georges. Never give the opposition a hint of your true feelings. Pretend you're a goat lover -- and hand me one of your cigars." The three horsemen pulled up in a churn of chaff and a clatter of pebbles. Georges coughed, batting a hand at the settling dust. Retief peeled the cigar unhurriedly, sniffed at it and thumbed it alight, He drew t it, puffed # . out a cloud of smoke and glanced casually at the trio of Aga Kagan cavaliers. "Peace be with you," he intoned in accent-free Kagan. "May your shadows never grow less." T HE leader of the three, a hawk-faced man with a heavy beard, unlimbered his rifle. He fingered it, frowning ferociously. "Have no fear," Retief said, smiling graciously. "He who comes as a guest enjoys perfect safety." A smooth-faced member of the threesome barked an oath and leveled his rifle at Retief. "Youth is the steed of folly," Retief said. "Take care that the beardless one does not disgrace his house." The leader whirled on the youth and snarled an order. He lowered the rifle, muttering. Blackbeard turned back to Retief. "Begone, interlopers," he said. "You disturb the goats." "Provision is not taken to the houses of the generous," Retief said. "May the creatures dine well ere they move "Hah! The goats of the Aga Kaga graze on the lands of the Aga Kaga." The leader edged his horse close, eyed Retief fiercely. "We welcome no intruders on our lands ' I "To praise a man for what' he does not possess is t? make him appear foolish," ftetief  # A fi! X; . O  i.i.i. i it by K pHh Mu riot said. "These are the lands of the Boyars. But enough of these pleasantries. We seek audience with your ruler." "You may address me as 'Exalted One'," the leader said. "Now dismount from that steed of Shaitan." "It is written, if you need anything from a dog, call him 'sir'," Retief said. "I must decline to impute canine ancestry to a guest. Now you may conduct us to your headquarters." "Enough of your insolence !" The bearded man cocked his rifle. "I could blow your heads off !" "The hen has feathers, but it does not fly," Retief said. "We have asked for escort. A slave must be beaten with a stick; for a free man, a hint is enough." "You mock me, pale one. I warn you -- " "Only love makes me weep," Retief said. "I laugh at hatred." "Get out of the car!" Retief puffed at his cigar, eyeing the Aga Kagan cheerfully. The youth in the rear moved forward, teeth bared. "Never give in to the fool, lest he say, 'He fears me " Retief said. "I cannot restrain my men in the face of your insults," the bearded Aga Kagan roared. "These hens of mine have feathers -- and talons as well !" "When God would destroy an ant, he gives him wings," Retief said. "Distress in misfortune is another misfortune." The bearded man's face grew purple.  Retief dribbled the ash from his cigar over the side of the car, "Now I think we'd better be getting on," he said briskly. "I've enjoyed our chat, but we do have business to attend to." The bearded leader laughed shortly. "Does the condemned man beg for the axe?" he enquired rhetorically. "Y o u shall visit the Aga Kaga, then. Move on! And make no attempt to escape, else my gun will speak you a brief farewell." The horsemen glowered, then, at a word from the leader, took positions around the car. Georges started the vehicle forward, following the leading rider. Retief leaned back and let out a long sigh. "That was close," he said. "I was about out of proverbs." "You sound as though you'd brought off a coup," Georges said. "From the expression on the whiskery one's face, we're in for trouble. What was he saying?" "Just a routine exchange of bluffs," Retief said. "Now when we get there, remember to make your flattery sound like insults and your insults sound like flattery, and you'll be all right." "These birds are armed. And they don't like strangers," Georges said. " Maybe I should have boned up on their habits before I joined this expedition." "Just stick to the plan," Retief said. "And remember: a handful of luck is better than a camel-load of learning." T HE air car followed the escort down a long slope to a dry river bed and across it, through a barren stretch of shifting sand to a green oasis set with canopies. The armed escort motioned the car to a halt before an immense tent of glistening black. Before the tent armed men lounged under a pennant bearing a lion couchant in crimson on a field verte. "Get out," Blackbeard ordered. The guards eyed the visitors, their drawn sabers catching sunlight. Retief and Georges stepped from the car onto rich rugs spread on the grass. They followed the ferocious gesture of the bearded man through the opening into a perfumed interior of luminous shadows. A heavy odor of incense hung in the air, and the strumming of stringed instruments laid a muted pattern of sound behind the decorations of gold and blue, silver and green. At the far end of the room, among a bevy of female slaves, a large and resplendently clad man with blueblack hair and a clean-shaven chin popped a grape into his mouth. He wiped his fingers negligently on a wisp of silk offered  by a handmaiden, belched loudly and looked the callers over.  Blackbeard cleared his throat. "Down on your faces in the presence of the Exalted One, the Aga Kaga, ruler of East and West." "Sorry," Retief said firmly. "My hay-fever, you know." The reclining giant waved a hand languidly. "Never mind the formalities," he said. "Approach." Retief and Georges crossed the thick rugs. A cold draft blew toward them. The reclining man sneezed violently, wiped his nose on another silken scarf and held up a hand. "Night and the horses and the desert know me," he said in resonant tones. "Also the sword and the guest and paper and pen -- " He paused, wrinkled his nose and sneezed again. "Turn off that damned air-conditioner," he snapped. He settled himself and motioned the bearded man to him. The two exchanged muted remarks. Then the bearded man stepped back, ducked his head and withdrew to the rear. "Excellency," Retief said, "I have the honor to present M. Georges Duror, Chef d'Regime of the Planetary government." "Planetary government?" The Aga Kaga spat grape seeds on the rug. "My men have observed a few squatters by Keith Laumer along the shore. If they're in distress, I'll see about a distribution of goat-meat." "It is the punishment of the envious to grieve at anothers' plenty," Retief said "No goatmeat will be required." "Ralph told me you talk like a page out of Mustapha ben Abdallah Katib Jelebi," the Aga Kaga said. "I know a few old sayings myself. For example, 'A Bedouin is only cheated once.' " "We have no such intentions, Excellency," Retief said. "Is it not written, 'Have no faith in the Prince whose minister cheats you'?" "I've had some unhappy experiences with strangers," the Aga Kaga said. "It is written in the sands that all strangers are kin. Still, he who visits rarely is a welcome guest. Be seated." Ill H andmaidens brought cushions, giggled and fled. Retief and Georges settled themselves comfortably. The Aga Kaga eyed them in silence. "We have come to bear tidings from the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne," Retief said solemnly. A perfumed slave girl offered grapes. "Modest ignorance is better than boastful knowledge," the Aga Kaga said. "What brings "The essay of the drunkard will be read in the tavern," Retief said. "Whereas the words of kings..." "Very well, I concede the point." The Aga Kaga waved a hand at the serving maids. "Depart, my dears. Attend me later. You too, Ralph. These are mere diplomats. They are men of words, not deeds." The bearded man glared and departed. The girls hurried after him. "Now," the Aga Kaga said. "Let's drop the wisdom of the ages and get down to the issues. Not that I don't admire your repertoire of platitudes. How do you remember them all?" "Diplomats and other liars require good memories," said Retief. "But as you point out, small wisdom to small minds. I'm here to effect a settlement of certain differences between yourself and the planetary authorities. I have here a Note, which I'm conveying on behalf of the Sector Under-Secretary. With your permission. I'll read it." "Go ahead." The Aga Kaga kicked a couple of cushions onto the floor, eased a bottle from under the couch and reached for glasses. "The Under-Secretary for Sector Affairs presents his compliments to his Excellency, the Aga Kaga of the Aga Kaga, Primary Potentate, Hereditary Sheik, Emir of the -- " "Yes, yes. Skip the titles." Retief flipped over two pages "...and with reference to the recent relocation of persons under the jurisdiction of his Excellency, has the honor to point out that the territories now under settlement comprise a portion of that area, hereinafter designated as Sub-sector Alpha, which, under terms of the Agreement entered into by his Excellency's predecessor, and as referenced in Sector Ministry's Notes numbers G-#-b and X-# c-#, with particular pertinence to that body designated in the Revised Galactic Catalogue, Tenth Edition, as amended, Volume Nine, reel #, as # Cygni Alpha, otherwise referred to hereinafter as Flamme -- " "Come to the point," the Aga Kaga cut in. "You're here to lodge a complaint that I'm invading territories to which someone else lays claim, is that it?" He smiled broadly, offered dope-sticks and lit one. "Well, I've been expecting a call. After all, it's what you gentlemen are paid for. Cheers." "Your Excellency has a lucid way of putting things," Retief said. "Call me Stanley," the Aga Kaga said. "The other routine is just to please some of the old fools -- I mean the more conservative members of my government. They're still gnawing their beards and kicking themselves because their ancestors dropped science in favor of alchemy and got themselves stranded in a cultural dead end. This charade is supposed to prove they were right all along. However, I've no time to waste in neurotic compensations. I have places to go and deeds to accomplish." "At first glance," Retief said, "it looks as though the places are already occupied, and the deeds are illegal." T HE Aga Kaga guffawed. "For a diplomat, you speak plainly, Retief. Have another drink." He poured, eyeing Georges. "What of M. Duror? How does he feel about it?" Georges took a thoughtful swallow of whiskey. "Not bad," he said. "But not quite good enough to cover the odor of goats." The Aga Kaga snorted. "I thought the goats were overdoing it a bit myself," he said. "Still, the graybeards insisted. And I need their support." "Also," Georges said distinctly, "I think you're soft. You lie around letting women wait on you, while your betters are out doing an honest day's work." The Aga Kaga looked startled. "Soft? I can tie a knot in an iron bar as big as your thumb." He popped a grape into his mouth. "As for the rest, your pious views about the virtues of hard labor are as childish as my advisors' faith in the advantages of by Ksith Laamsr primitive plumbing. As for myself, I am a realist. If two monkeys want the same banana, in the end one will have it, and the other will cry morality. The days of my years are numbered, praise be to God. While they last, I hope to eat well, hunt well, fight well and take my share of pleasure. I leave to others the arid satisfactions of .selfdenial and other perversions." "You admit you're here to grab our land, then," Georges said. "That's the damnedest piece of bare-faced aggression -- " "Ah, ah!" The Aga Kaga held up a hand. "Watch your vocabulary, my dear sir. I'm sure that 'justifiable yearnings for territorial self-realization' would be more appropriate to the situation. Or possibly 'legitimate aspirations. for self-determination of formerly exploited peoples' might , fit the .case. Aggression is, by definition, an activity carried on only by those who have inherited the mantle of Colonial Imperialism." "Imperialism ! ,Why, you Aga v Kagans have been the most notorious planet-grabbers in Sector history, you -- you -- " "Call me Stanley." The Aga Kaga munched a g rape. "I merely face the realities of popular olk-Iore...Let's be pragitotic; it's a matter of historical  associatiom  Some peopoiercangrab land and pass it off lightly as a moral duty: others are dubbed imperialist merely for holding onto their own. Unfair, you say. But that's life, my friends. And I shall continue to take every advantage of it." "We'll fight you!" Georges bellowed. He took another gulp of whiskey and slammed the glass down. "You won't take this world without a struggle !" "Another?" the Aga Kaga said, offering the bottle. Georges glowered as his glass was filled., The Aga Kaga held the glass up to the light. "Excellent color, don't you agree?" He turned his eyes on Georges. "It's pointless to resist," he said. "We have you outgunned and outmanned. Your small nation has no chance against us. But we're prepared to be generous... You may continue , to occupy, such areas as we do not immediately reguire until suck time as. yop'rOigible to make other arrangements." "And by the time we've got a crop growing , out of what was bare rock, you'll be ready to move in," the Boyar Chef d'Regime snapped. "But you'll find k that we aren't alone !" V said. He nodded saeely. "Yes, one need but read the lesson of history. The Corps Diplomatique will make expostulatory noises, but it will a accept the fait accompli. You, dear sir, are but a very small nibble. We won't make the mistake of excessive greed. We shall inch our way to empire -- and those who stand in our way shall be dubbed warmongers." "I see you're quite a student of history, Stanley," Retief said. "I wonder if you recall the eventual fate of most of the would-be empire nibblers of the past?" "Ah, but they grew incautious. They went too far, too fast." "The confounded impudence," Georges rasped. "Tells us to our face what he has in mind !" "An ancient and honorable custom, from the time of Mein Kampf and the Communist Manifesto through the Porcelain Wall of Leung. Such declarations have a legendary quality. It's, traditional that they're never taken at face value." "But always," Retief said, "there was a critical point at which vthe man on horseback could have been pulled from the saddle." " Could have been," the Aga Kaga chuckled. He finished the grapes and began peeling an orange. "But they never were. Hitler could have been stopped by the Czech Air Force in #; Stalin was at the mercy of the primitive atomics of the west in # ; Leung was grossly over-extended at Rangoon. But the onus of that historic role could not be overcome. It has been the fate of your spiritual forebears to carve civilization from the wilderness and then, amid tearing of garments and the heaping of ashes of self-accusation on your own confused heads, to withdraw, leaving the spoils for local political opportunists and mob leaders, clothed in the mystical virtue of native birth. Have a banana." "You're stretching your analogy a little too far," Retief said. "You're banking on the inaction of the Corps. You could be wrong." "I shall know when to stop," the Aga Kaga said. "Tell me, Stanley," Retief said, rising. "Are we quite private here?" "Yes, perfectly so," the Aga Kaga said. "None would dare to intrude in my council." He cocked an eyebrow at Retief. "You have a proposal to make in confidence? But what of our dear friend Georges? One would not like to see him disillusioned." "Don't worry about Georges. He's a realist, like you. He's prepared to deal in facts. Hard facts, in this case." The Aga Kaga nodded thoughtfully. "What are you getting at?" "You're basing your plan of actionon the certainty that the Corps will sit by, wringing its hands, while you embark on a career of planetary piracy." "Isn't it the custom?" the Aga Kaga smiled complacently. fey KettJi Uumer m Wm#M ' 'lr    V-.   #Z#F.Sa qsir. ", fiPNlP v fl'. A  ' X I WmwM wmw'm mm  't'fr "I have news for you, Stanley. t . In this instance, neckwringing seems more; in order than hand-wringing." The Aga Kaga frowned. "Your manner -- " "Never mind our manners!" Georges blurted, standing. "We don't need any lessons from goat-herding landthieves!" The Aga Kaga's face darkened. "You dare to speak thus to me, pig of a muck-grubber!" Georges launched himself at the potentate. The giant rolled aside. He grunted as the Boyar's fist thumped in his short ribs; then he chopped down on Georges' neck. The Chef d'Regime slid off onto the floor a? the Aga Kaga bounded to his feet, sending fruit and silken cushions flying. , . ; "I see it now!' he hissed. "An assassination attempt !" He stretched his arms, thick as tree-roots -- a grizzly in satin robes. "Your heads will ring together like gongs before I have done with you !" He lunged for Retief. Retief came to his feet, feinted with his left and planted a short right against the Aga Kaga's jaw with a solid smack. The potentate stumbled, grabbed; Retief slipped aside. The Aga Kaga whirled to face Retief. : "A slippery diplomat, by all the houris in Paradise!" he grated, breathing hard. "But a fool. True to your medieval code of chivalry, you attacked singly, a blunder I would never have made And you shall die for your idiocy !" He opened his mouth to bellow -- "You sure look foolish, with your fancy hair-do down in your eyes," Retief said. "The servants will get a big laugh out of it." With a choked yell, the Aga Kaga dived for Retief, missed as he leaped aside. The two went to the mat together and rolled, sending a stool skittering. Grunts and curses echoed as the two big men strained, muscles popping. Retief groped for a scissors hold ; the Aga Kaga seized his foot, bit hard. Retief bent nearly double, braced himself and slammed the potentate against the rug. Dust flew. Then the two were on their feet, circling. "Many times Havt I longed t?# btoil a I "diplohruft' civet ' a slow fire-" the Aga 'Kaga j snatled. "Tonight will see it come to pass V I  ' y  I :  "I've seen it done often" at staff meetings," said Retief. "It seems to have no permanent effect." , The Aga Kaga reached for Retief, who feinted left', hammered a right to the thin. The Aga Kaga tottered. Retief measured him, brought up a haymaker. The potentate slammed to the rug -- out cold.     I  i ' G eorges toiled bvtt, sat up. "Let meat 'the son of he mustered, by Keith Laumer "Take over, Georges' Retief said, panting. "Since he's in a mood to negotiate now, we may as well get something accomplished." Georges eyed the fallen ruler, who stirred, groaned lugubriously. "I hope you know what you're doing," Georges said. "But I'm with you in any case." He straddled the prone body, plucked a curved knife from the low table and prodded the Aga Kaga's Adam's apple. The monarch opened his eyes. "Make one little peep and your windbag will spring a leak," Georges said. "Very few historical figures have accomplished anything important after their throats were cut." "Stanley won't yell," Retief said. "We're not the only ones who're guilty of cultural idiocy. He'd lose face something awful if he let his followers see him like this." Retief settled himself on a tufted ottoman. "Right, Stanley?" The Aga Kaga snarled. Retief selected a grape and ate it thoughtfully. "These aren't bad, Georges. You might consider taking on a few Aga Kagan vine-growers -- purely on a yearly contract basis, of course." The Aga Kaga groaned, rolling his eyes. "Well, I believe we're ready to get down to diplomatic proceedings n o w," Retief said. "Nothing like dealing in an atmosphere of realistic good fellowship. First, of course, there's the matter of the presence of aliens lacking visas." He opened his briefcase, withdrew a heavy sheet of parchment. "I have the document here, drawn up and ready for signature. It provides for the prompt deportation of such persons, by Corps Transport, all expenses to be borne by the Aga Kagan government. That's agreeable, I assume?" Retief looked expectantly at the purple face of the prone potentate. The Aga Kaga grunted a strangled grunt. "Speak up, Stanley," Retief said. "Give him plenty of air, Georges." "Shall I let some in through the side?" "Not yet. I'm sure Stanley wants to be agreeable." The Aga Kaga snarled. "Maybe just a little then, Georges," Retief said judiciously. Georges jabbed the knife in far enough to draw a bead of blood. The Aga Kaga grunted. "Agreed!" he snorted. "By the beard of the prophet, when I get my hands on you..." "Second item : certain fields, fishing grounds, et cetera, have suffered damage due to the presence of the aforementioned illegal immigrants. Full compensation will be made by the Aga Kagan government. Agreed?" T HE Aga Kaga drew a breath, tensed himself ; Georges jabbed with the knife point. His prisoner relaxed with a groan. "Agreed!" he grated. "A vile tactic! You enter my tent under the guise of guests, protected by diplomatic immunity -- " "I had the impression we were herded in here at sword point," said Retief. "Shall we go on? Now there's the little matter of restitution for violation of sovereignty, reparations for mental anguish, payment for damaged fences, roads, drainage canals, communications, et cetera, et cetera. Shall I read them all?" "Wait until the news of this outrage is spread abroad !" "They'd never believe it," Retief said. "History would prove it impossible. And on mature consideration, I'm sure you won't want it noised about that you entertained visiting dignitaries flat on your back." "What about the pollution of the atmosphere by goats?" Georges put in. "And don't overlook the muddying of streams, the destruction of timber for camp fires and -- " "I've covered all that sort of thing under a miscellaneous heading," Retief said. "We can fill it in at leisure when e get back." "Bandits!" the Aga Kaga hissed. "Thieves! Dogs of unreliable imperialists!" "It is disillusioning, I know," Retief said. "Still, of such little surprises is history made. Sign here." He held the parchment out and offered a pen. "A nice clear signature, please. We wouldn't want any quibbling about the legality of the treaty, after conducting the negotiation with such scrupulous regard for the niceties." "Niceties! Never in history has such an abomination been perpetrated !" "Oh, treaties are always worked out this way, when it comes right down to it. We've just accelerated the process a little. Now, if you'll just sign like a good fellow, we'll be on our way. Georges will have his work cut out for him, planning how to use all this reparations money." The Aga Kaga gnashed his teeth; Georges prodded. The Aga Kaga seized the pen and scrawled his name. Retief signed with a flourish. He tucked the treaty away in his briefcase, took out another. "This is just a safe-conduct, to get us out of the door and into the car," he said. "Probably unnecessary, but it won't hurt to have it, in case you figure out some way to avoid your obligations as a host." The Aga Kaga signed the document after another prod from Georges. "One more paper, and I'll be into the jugular," he said. by Keith Laumer #V#E'RE all through now," said Retief. "Stanley, we're going to have to run now. I'm going to strap up your hands and feet a trifle ; it shouldn't take you more than ten minutes or so to get loose, stick a bandaid on your neck and -- " "My men will cut you down for the rascals you are !" "By that time, we'll be over the hill," Retief continued. "At full throttle we'll be at Government House in an hour, and of course I won't waste any time transmitting the treaty to Sector HQ. And the same concern for face that keeps you from yelling for help will insure that the details of the negotiation remain our secret." "Treaty! That scrap of paper!" "I confess the Corps is a little sluggish about taking action at times," Retief said, whipping a turn of silken cord around the Aga Kaga's ankles. "But once it's got signatures on a legal treaty, it's extremely stubborn about all parties adhering to the letter. It can't afford to be otherwise, as I'm sure you'll understand." He cinched up the cord, went to work on the hands. The Aga Kaga glared at him balefully. "To the Pit with the Corps! The ferocity of my revenge -- " "Don't talk nonsense, Stanley. There are several squadrons of Peace Enforcers cruising in the Sector just now. I'm sure you're not ready to make any historical errors by taking them on." Retief finished and stood. "Georges, just stuff a scarf in Stanley's mouth. I think he'd prefer to work quietly until he recovers his dignity." Retief buckled his briefcase, selected a large grape and looked down at the Aga Kaga. "Actually, you'll be glad you saw things our way, Stanley," he said. "You'll get all the credit for the generous settlement. Of course, it will be a striking precedent for any other negotiations that may become necessary if you get grabby on other worlds in this region. And if your advisors want to know why the sudden change of heart, just tell them you've decided to start from scratch on an unoccupied world. Mention the virtues of thrift and hard work. I'm confident you can find plenty of historical examples to support you." "Thanks for the drink," said Georges. "Drop in on me at Government House some time and we'll crack another bottle." "And don't feel bad about your project's going awry," Retief said. "In the words of the prophet, 'Stolen goods are never sold at a loss.' " ii A remarkable about-face,  Retief," Magnan said. "Let this be a lesson to you. A stern Note of Protest can work wonders." "A lot depends on the method of delivery' Retief said. "Nonsense. I knew all along the Aga Kagans were a reasonable and peace-loving people. One of the advantages of senior rank, of course, is the opportunity to see the big picture. Why, I was saying only this morning -- " The desk screen broke into life. The mottled jowls of Under-Secretary Sternwheeler appeared. "Magnan! I've just learned of the Flamme affair. Who's responsible?" "Why, ah... I suppose that I might be said -- " "This is your work, is it?" "Well... Mr. Retief did play the role of messenger." "Don't pass the buck, Magnan!" the Under-Secretary barked. "What the devil went on out there?" "Just a routine Protest Note. Everything is quite in order." "Bah! Your over-zealousness has cost me dear. I was feeding Flamme to the Aga Kagans to consolidate our position of moral superiority for use as a lever in a number of important negotiations. Now they've backed out ! Aga Kaga emerges from the affair wreathed in virtue. You've destroyed a very pretty finesse in power politics, Mr. Magnan! A year's work down the drain!" "But I thought -- " "I doubt that, Mr. Magnan, M I doubt that very much!" The Under-Secretary rang off. "This is a fine turn of events," Magnan groaned. "Retief, you know very well Protest Notes are merely intended for the historical record ! No one ever takes them seriously." "You and the Aga Kaga ought to get together," said Retief. "He's a great one for citing historical parallels. He's not a bad fellow, as a matter of fact. I have an invitation from him to visit Kaga and go mud-pig hunting. He was so impressed by Corps methods that he wants to be sure we're on his side next time. Why don't you come along?" "Hmmm. Perhaps I should cultivate him. A few highlevel contacts never do any harm. On the other hand, I understand he lives in a very loose way, feasting and merrymaking. Frivolous in the extreme. No wife, you understand, but hordes of lightly clad women about. And in that connection, the Aga Kagans have some very curious notions as to what constitutes proper hospitality to a guest." Retief rose, pulled on the powder blue cloak and black velvet gauntlets of a Career Minister. "Don't let it worry you," he said. "You'll have a great time. And as the Aga Kaga would say, 'Ugliness is the best safeguard of virginity.' " by Kaiflt Launttr JP # Short Story The Man Who Flew could not exist -- but he had committed a foul crime! city, gray and dismal. The shining metal thruway partially reflected their somber visage. A few vehicles scurried nervously through the city. Keller turned away from the window dismally. His conscience was bothering him, and it affected his every movement. Looking over his humbly furnished office, he entertained the thought, not for the first time, that he should change jobs if he wanted to eat A buzz sounded -- the intercom system. That would be Sally, his secretary. It was a mystery what she would want. Usually she never bothered him except in case of an emergency, and the last client Keller had had dropped his case three months ago. Apparently it was another customer, unlikely as it seemed. Keller heard voices outside, Sally's irritated and protesting, and a nervous baritone. Abruptly the door opened, disclosing a rugged, bushy-haired C-# (average intelligence and advanced extra-sensory perception, but unexercised), who was in a bad state of nerves. He seemed to have forced his way past Sally into the inner office. Keller flashed a thought at Sally: How does he look? Not so hot, she answered. I didn't bother to scan much -- don't want to lower myself to that depth -- but he seems to be a big paver. He's impatient, though. And he wants everything run his wav. Oh, fine, thought Keller. My first victim in three months, and it has to be the Big Shot type. He made the usual Q-R opening; curtly and efficiently: "Your name?" "Uh -- Harold Radcliffe "Why the hesitation?" But Keller had scanned it already. The man was simply cautious. He continued without letting Radcliffe answer: "Age?" #. "Occupation?" Hesitation : Salesman. "Residence?" After writing this and Radcliffe's telephone number down, he closed his 'grimy black notebook and sat back. "And how, Mr. Radcliffe, why exactly did you come here?" Radcliffe, unsure of himself at first, gathered confidence as he noticed Keller's interest growing. He began: "Well sir, for this job I need one of the best detectives -- " he paused at Keller's grimace -- "and since you're one of the few detectives in the city who can read minds, and the only A-# 'tec in the state -- " He shrugged, and finished, "I figured you'd be the man for me." Keller saw that he was telling the truth, after a quick check into the man's mind. "All right, Mr. Radcliffe. What's your problem?" R adcliffe seemed to not be able to focus his thoughts. His mind, Keller saw, was a loose stream of unconnected thoughts, trying to merge into a whple. Keller could read no message out of them. He suspected a block -- by Charles D. Cunningham, Jr; an unusual thing for a C-#, but not impossible He gave up, sat back and awaited the other's response. Finally it came, jerking Keller out of his chair. "It's murder, Mr. Keller. The murder of my wife." Murder! It was the first suspected murder in thirteen years. Ever since the Ricjards case in '#, peace and tranquility reigned in a calm and placid nation. For thirteen peaceful years there had been no hint of manslaughter other than accidental. It had been conditioned out of humans at the prenatal stage, and unless there was a violent, all-encompassing urge to kill, murder was completely out of the question. It was hard to believe. But it was not a lie; no non-tele could block a lie, and Keller scanned the truth in Radcliffe's brain. "Wait a minute, Radcliffe. Are you sure it's not murder by accident -- unintentional manslaughter, as the police term it? Or it could be suicide. Had you thought of that?" Radcliffe shook his head impatiently. He rose out of his chair, pacing the floor nervously. "It could not possibly be accident. You'll see that when you investigate the case. Suicide? It's possible. Anything is possible, I suppose, but I would lay any kind of odds against it. We had just been to the theater. We returned to our apartment at about five minutes to eleven. "After undressing and showering, I started to turn in. I noticed a light on in her room -- we sleep in separate rooms -- and called to her, to see if anything was wrong. There was no answer. "I figured that she had gone to sleep with the light on, and went into the room to turn it off. That was when I saw her on the floor." He stopped. Keller read grief, fear and love in his memory. "How had she been killed?" "It was a handgun, Mr. Keller. Her face was all blackened and charred. Barely recognizable. But I knew it must be her. Our rooms connect, you see. There are two other doors to each room; one to the outside hall, and one to each bathroom. "When she was shot, my door was locked on the inside -- triple-locked, I remember, because I felt like being left alone that night. It was locked by chain, bar and bolt. It's a fairly ancient apartment house. We like it that way. Her bathroom door was open and there was no one hiding inside. The same went for my bathroom. And both hall doors were locked and bolted. "The windows were locked on the inside, and there is no opening to shoot through that would not leave traces. I checked. "Even if the killer had gotten in some way or other, there was no way he could get out and still leave the doors and windows locked up tight." Keller thought, there is one way, Mr. Radcliffe. But he kept it to himself for the moment. H E looked up and smiled as confidently as he could. "I'll be glad to take your case, Mr. Radcliffe. Of course you want me to spare no expenses," he added hopefully. At Radcliffe's harassed nod, he relaxed. Next came the most dangerous part of the job. It was a part which had eliminated several competent detectives from their jobs -- the Probe phase. This involved plunging into the subject's mind, and sorting out relevant details which could furnish extra clues. Several Probers had got themselves trapped in the subject's mind, unable to get out because of a mental block or insanity. It might, however, be unnecessary. He flashed a thought to the girl in the adjoining room: Sal, should I give him the H-R treatment ? Answer: Emphatically ! He's hiding something. Not intentionally, but it needs to be uncovered. A superficial scanning of the preconscious doesn't get the job done. Keller sighted. The Probe (also called the H-R treatment; because a c e r tainf amount of hypnotism was involved) was trying on not only the subject but also the scanner. He said: "Now, Mr. Radcliffe, I'm going to go into your subconscious mind and get your impressions of last night. I want you to concentrate on...Tt's say... the moment when you saw your wife." He shut off all of his five senses, and took the plunge. The image formed : Shrieking terror. A tinge of ozone in the air. The Creature creeping up from behind. A beheaded teddy bear lying full length on the floor. A hole in the air near the door, colored red. Floating demon -- where? Nonononono! The Creature bending over him. Terror -- door (now violet) disintegrating. The teddy bear shriveling now -- turns into a snake -- He emerged. Before he could take full control of his body, a thought came : Rick? How did you come out ? He flashed her the image. Lousy. I can't get a true impression-picture to save my life. Just a lousy nightmare, fantasy-symbolism deal. But I did get something out of that mess. I'll let you know about it as soon as I verify it. T # Radcliffe, since, the time when Keller  had  stopped talking until rights now,, aq by Charlcfe IX Cuhitf ngbam Jr; Keller opened his eyes and frowned in thought, no time had elapsed. In actuality, the time taken was one and onehalf microseconds. Keller flashed : Sally, tune in on this conversation, please. "Radcliffe," he said slowly, "When did you lose your sight ?" The other man sat up rigidlv, then relaxed. "How did you find out? Did you scan it?" "No. When I was receiving your impressions, I caught an idea of melting walls. Then there were nameless creatures and demons floating around. I examined your senses when I came out, and saw that you were blind. What is it -- sort of a sight perception-tuning sense ?" Radcliffe nodded. "I can sense everything except colors. Everything seems black, white and gray to me." He paused wearily. "Otherwise, there's no difference. No one else knew about it. Not even my wife." Keller nodded. "Now, let's try it again. Concentrate on the moment when you entered here and saw me for the first time." He flashed a thought to Sally. Those Creatures were his fear of the unknown. He's got a lot of fright in there. Probably afraid that the killer would jump out at him from some shadowy corner. I don't quite see how he could visualize different colors, having never seen them before -- but that's probably my interpretation of them. Here goes. The image : Heat. Light. The teddv bear snake again -- coiling -- striking -- missing. Fleeing. Dying. Melting walls. Voices around him -- laughing -- shrieking. Colors of the rainbow. The creature d y i n g -- dead -- dissolving. No more... Voices again. Talking to him. Telling him -- what? His life flashing before him -- stopping. His brain -- undressing ? Hole in the air at -- the hate-revenge... determination...  Sally? Did you catch all that mess? Unfortunately. Something's wrong, Sally, I should be seeing something akin to the actual events through his eyes. Instead all I get is this meaningless stuff -- unless -- oh, God, now I see ! Pause. I wonder who the Man Who Flew is?  You've got me. And how about the dissolving creature? That shows his confir dence in having someone to tell his story to. All his utv known fear is vanishing. And then there's the hole in the air. Yeah, I think TH surface again, and try some straight questions on him. A D C L I F F E," began Keller, "you haven't reported this to the police, have you?" Radcliffe grinned. "Hardly. That would start the biggest scandal in years. I want it kept quiet until we found out who killed her." "Well, we've ruled out accidental murder. You found no hand-gun in the room when you searched it?" "No firearm of any kind." Keller nodded. He let his mind drift back over four years -- To a time when he was in love with Mildred Simmons and had proposed to her... and she had rejected him, saying she loved Harold Radcliffe. He had walked away, a bitter man. She had had many enemies, he mused, and almost as many friends. He did not know of anyone who knew her who was not either violently for or violently against her and all that she stood for. He looked up. "How old was your wife when she died?" "T h i r t y-one. Two years younger than I am." "Do you know of anyone who would want to kill her?" It was a routine question, but to Keller it was very important. "No. I knew many people who disliked her intensely -- I'm not denying that -- but not to the point of murder. Of course, she wasn't around me half the time. I might not know." "Well, Radcliffe, I think that'll be all for today. Mind if I go with you back to your apartment to look it over?" "I don't live there any more. I moved out after I had disposed of her body. I couldn't stand to live there any longer." Radcliffe shook hands and departed. Keller read confidence and positiveness that he, Keller, would come through. Keller was not so sure. He decided to have a look around Radcliffe's apartment. He strolled aimlessly around the apartment for a few moments, pausing here and there to check details which might or might not help him in analyzing the Radcliffes' character: furniture design, carpeting, thermostat setting, toilet articles and so on. Then he got down to a thorough examination of the room. There were no secret panels or trapdoors of any kind. So entrance by a hithertofore unknown passageway was completely out. He checked the air conditioner to see if any rigmarole could be fixed up with it to make it appear that by Charles D. Cunningham, Jr; the victim had been shot with a handgun, but this, too, drew a blank. After a few more minutes' examination, he decided to return. On an impulse, he decided to see where Radcliffe had gone. Attuning his mind to the already-recorded pattern of Radcliffe's brain, he received direction, distance and motion -- acceleration, direction, rate. To his surprise he noted that Radcliffe had turned back and was heading toward Keller's office again. Hastily, Keller returned to the office before him. I N about twenty minutes, Radcliffe barged in as before. "Keller," he said, "I think I'm going to be called out of tovn tonight. So if you want any more information directly from me, you'll have to get it now." Keller flashed: Sally. Watch his conscious thoughts, and also his impressions. I'm going to try some unconscious identification-response. Wish me luck. Or do you want to burrow around in his subconscious with me a little more? I think I will. I'm actually beginning to enjoy it, to tell the truth. Keller said aloud, "I'll go under again. That'll be the last time." Image : Nonono. Fire. Flame. Gun. F earhateterrorlove. Radcliffe, I am the creature. No! Dead. You're not -- I hate you -- gone. Disbelief. Hate. No fear. Forgetfulness. Block. Withdrawal. Radcliffe. Me. I'm the melting walls. Terror? Uncertainty. Indecision. Realization. Contemptpityscorn. Sharp mental block. Withdrawal. Radcliffe. Me. I'm the teddy bear. (This was, he thought, Radcliffe's wife-image.) Indecision. Realization. Withdrawal. Blank. Radcliffe, I'm the hole in the air. But Keller's reply was cut short by a cry of terror in his brain. It was Sally. diately. What? No response. sponse. Then he could hear her cry -- fading in depth -- now dying -- gone. Radcliffe. Mememe. Sally. Memeususwetwowetwo... It had happened. Sally was trapped in his preconscious, absorbed by his dominating mind block. Gone Forever. Determination, savage and enraged. A desperate shot in the dark: Mememememememe... Nononono. Fear. Terror. Hate. Block. Withdrawal, but incomplete... Coming out of his Probe, Keller saw the result of his last implanted thought: Radcliffe, now in a tight fetal ball, lay on the floor. His face was absolutely devoid of expression. His conscious mind was a constant gobble-gobble-gobble. Keller entered the next room, to find Sally sprawled limply across her desk. Mindless, soulless, as if she had never had a mind or soul -- Keller lifted her tenderly onto the floor and chose the no#t merciful way out, disintegrating her body with an atomic gun from the closet. Then, again, the Probe. Radcliffe. Mememe. I'm Sally. Nonono. (Gloating.) Gonegonegone. Radcliffe, where's Sally? Gone. Satisfaction. Triumph. Laughtea, Delirious happiness. Radcliffe, I'm everything. Ml I'm the creature. The snake, the hole in the air, the flames, everything you've hated, feared and dreaded. Withdrawal. Thunderbolt! More and more now. Frantically, Keller defended himself, throwing up block after block, only to have it torn down by the ever-spreading bolts of pure mental energy. Finally he withdrew into his own body in haste, realizing that Radcliffe's conquest would mean his revival. Radcliffe was sitting in the chair, yawning. Probably, Keller thought, he had no knowledge of his fetal state. Good. "Well, Radcliffe, " he said, "I need only one more thing to complete the picture. Now focus again on #:# last night, when you found your wife dead on the floor." Image : Fear. Terror. Anxiety. NoWithdrawal. Complete mental block. With a shock, Keller realized that in seven hours Radcliffe had been turned into an A-# -- just below Keller -- thanks to... Sally. He analyzed the symbols. Impressions: No teddy bear (no real concern for the wife, then). No creature (no more by Charles D. Cunningham Jr;  ' I , , I  unknown fears). No snake or demon or flames, signifying ,evil and terror. Just the hole in the air and the man. who flew.    Strange... he realized that meant one thing -- he had to go down one last final time, -- to end it all... Radcliffe. Me. Radcliffe, who is Sally? ' MemeusususWetwowetwo. Shut ' up! Radcliffe, I know who killed your wife. Terror. Shock. Ordeal. Decision.Determination. Yes. We hear you. Walls  th at couldn't KLlEE'd your Wife? Wife With that Nonono... v-v  H J (a... S'  ' Youyouyou... Radcliffe... Memeusus... Wethreewethreewethree... Jlhistroted by MaMon Btafoa": now jpadv at # each. # at # each. ' these # books due October # at # each. due November # at #i# each. Order now for shipment ers received. More forthcoming titles F.Q.B. , Brooklyn. N Y. #I #th Ave... 'Brooklyn N. , Y r . ;  r I I IF  Feature W E are an inveterate, habitual, addicted radio listener: were you able to absorb all that passes through this wrinkled bearded jelly as it crystallizes these syllables on the paper for you, you might be hard put to it to separate the science, science fiction, science-fantasy and aheer opinion which is intended for you, from the cascade of cacaphonies cavorting coincidentally amongst the selfsame cerebral viscosities. Working without the radio long ago became a total impossibility, and others beside ourselves have assigned various reasons to this. One says we set up a barrier of noise between us and the world, and then mentally tune the noise out, leaving us a species of tomblike (or womblike) privacy. Another says chronic radio-listening is due to anxiety: it indicates that we want to be forewarned when the whole shebang wheebangs. Still another suggests that given a choice between work and distraction, we probably prefer distraction and use the perpetual purr as instant interruption, as convenient as our omni-present coffee automatic pot. We know, of course, which of these analyses are correct: they all are. There is, however, another reason not readily apparent unless you see our personal cave for yourself. For attached to the ubiquitous radio is a tape recorder, also always in the "on" condition. A function switch ties in the radio, a microphone, the television and the intercom to the house; the recorder is therefore a p.a. system and a second speaker, or poor man's stereo. However, to record anything of interest to self, wife, friends, children or local organizations, all that is needed is to reach out and pull the handle. A surprising potpourri gradually gathers on the tape, until at last it is full and needs to be erased. Wiping the tape is always an interesting duty. Among fragments of battle between Jack ley, a couple of long cadenzas from a bass-player named Slam Stewart, a thumping attack on the United Nations by an organization called Lifeline, an extemporaneous bed-time story by our #-year, old about a duck who liked horses so much she ate three before lunch and our brother arguing with Lester del Rey about intelligence tests on an all-night talkfest called The Long John Nebel Show; amongst all these and others, then, are snatches of overseas radio -- Prague, Rome, Saudi Arabia, Ecuador and Radio Moscow. Radio, you know, (and if you don't, Moscow will often inform you) was invented by a Russian named Popoff. Whether Popoff ever heard of Marconi, Hertz, Armstrong, Edison, Crookes or Sarnoff is not known. That Radio Moscow never heard of them is certain. Anyway, they put put a monstrous signal on seven frequencies or more, and they let you in on wonderful worlds of science, of fiction and of fantasy. Their tone is that of rectitude and certainty. You'd think from listening to a single program that never in life had they contradicted themselves. in May, we ran across one recording we'd like to share with you, because perhaps you'd like to venture an opinion as to whether it's science, science fiction, just plain fiction or fantasy. We wish we could share the voice as well. It is female, well modulated, with an almost indescribable slight accent. Know how certain Englishmen speak without moving the upper lip? .This gal sounds as if she doesn't move her lower lip, and we'd love to see how she does it: "Now we'd like to tell you how Soviet Scientists propose to de-charge the radiation zone around the earth for purposes of space flight. Until recently it was believed that the principal danger to space flight was collision with a meteorite. However, the most recent research has shown that this danger was overestimated. However, another danger has become apparent. That is the radiation zone around the earth containing the high-energy particles known as protons. Authors of science fiction in describing their heroes' flights through interplanetary space often write of their attempts to protect themselves from this danger. As a rule, the methods used are on the principle of creating a powerful protective field around the rocket. This is not the best solution of the problem. A better idea is to do away with the radiation altogether, thereby changing the conditions of space flight. Such a proposal is based on perfectly practical calculations... The radiation zone...is created by the very same protons which are the basis of hydrogen atomic nucleus. They need only to be supplied vith electrons to be converted into electrically neutral atoms. These will not be subject to any pull by the earth's gravitic field and will become rapidly diffused throughout space. Electrons can be supplied by sic the protons in the radiation zone by using what is called an electronic cannon which, as it were, fires them at great speed in the required direction. An electronic cannon with a capacity of only fifty kilowatts could do away with the radiation zone in # hours. The electronic cannon could be placed best on an artificial satellite and supplied with energy from solar batteries, and since the radiation zone apparently is capable of being restored, the cannon would have to be put in action periodically by signals from earth." Now the Popoff (a term of endearment used slangily by Russians, as once we referred to "the Marconi") here performs some fantasy greater even than the fact that it never heard of Van Allen either. For at this writing, the news is full of Russian objections to our high-altitude atomic tests over Johnson Island. And one of the reasons for their objection is -- and we assure you, it's as flatly, as positively stated as any of the above -- that their calculations show that such explosions could damage the belt! What is it in the Communist mentaliiy that makes it behave with such transparent childishness -- the childishness which always wins in its reports of its adventures, which actually believes that its listeners selectively forget the lies and the contradictions, and is so sure that they can really see pictures drawn with all light and no shade? The worst of our comic books tell this sort of story. Some view-with-alarmists point out that Soviet radio, in sheer coverage, outpoints us # or # to #, and that they spend more money jamming our broadcasts than we do in sending them. Maybe on sober second thought we should leave them to it. All we need to do to reduce their propaganda to zero is to list to it. by Theodora Sturgeon IF # Short Story Everybody likes fried eggs for breakfast -- but would a chicken? matic citizen, came to buy c the new refrigerator in the usual fashion. He was looking for a bargain. It was the latest model, fresh from the new production line in Los Angeles, and was marked down considerably below standard. The freezing compartment held # lbs. of meat. "How come so cheap ?" Coxe wanted to know.  "Frankly," the salesman said, "I asked myself that. Usually there's a dent in them or something, when they have that factory tag on them. But I checked it over and I can't find anything wrong with it. However, she goes as is." "At that price," Coxe said, "I'll take it." It arrived, refinished in a copper color to his specifications, the following Tuesday. It was plugged in and operated perfectly. He checked it out by freezing ice cubes. Wednesday evening, when he opened the door to chill some beer, there was a package in the freezing compartment. He took out the package. It was some sort of plastic and appeared to contain fish eggs. Coxe had not seen fresh fish eggs, considered by some a delicacy, for a number of years. He chilled the beer and fried the eggs. Both tasted about right. The following Friday, his girl friend came over to fix dinner for him, and when she looked in the freezing compartment, she said, "What's this?" . "Fish eggs," Coxe said. "How many of them?" "Two packages." "We'll fry them up for breakfast," he said. Saturday morning, there were three packages of eggs in the refrigerator. "Where do they come from?" his girl friend wanted to know. "They just appear. I ate some and they're very good." She was reluctant, but he talked her into preparing a package. She agreed they were very good. "What are you going to do about it?" she asked. "I don't think there's anything to do about it," he said. "I like fish eggs." On Sunday, the package they had eaten Saturday had been replaced. They were coming in at a steady rate of one a day. Coxe cooked a package for breakfast and took the other two to his parents. By Tuesday, he was getting tired of the eggs, and by the end of the week, he had four more packages. He succeeded in giving two packages to the neighbors. At the end of another week, he had eight packages. He explained to his girl friend. She suggested they visit all their friends, leaving a package with each of them. At the end of another two weeks, this method for disposing of the eggs had worn thin. They finally managed to give the last two packages to the landlady. At the end of still another week, there were seven more packages. Otherwise, the refrigerator was a good buy. Coxe calculated that, at the present rate, had he left the packages in the compartment, it would have been filled by the end of the month. He felt  that once that point was reached, the eggs would stop coming. Should this prove to be incorrect, he was prepared to arrange for some method of commercial distribution for the product. On schedule, the eggs stopped coming. He waited two days. No more came. It was over. He ate the last package. T HE refrigerator worked perfectly, and, he began to stock it with things freezers by Kris Melville are conventionally stocked with. It was almost two weeks after the last package had appeared, early one Sunday morning, when the doorbell rang. At the door was a small, nondescript man with a vaguely -- and really indefinably -- unpleasant aspect. His head was bandaged. "Mr. Coxe?" he asked. "That's me." "May I come in?" "Come on." The man seated himself "Something terrible has happened," he said. "A horrible mistake has been made." "I'm sorry to hear that. You look as if you were in an accident." "I was. I've been in the... hospital... for nearly two months. But to come to the point, Mr. Coxe. I've come bout the refrigerator you recently purchased. It was a special refrigerator that was erroneously shipped out of the plant as a second. When I didn't come in, it got shipped out and sold." "Good refrigerator," Coxe said. "Perhaps you've noticed... ah...something unusual about it?" "It runs okay. For a while there were a bunch of packages of fish eggs in it." "Fish eggs!" the little man cried in horrot. After he had recovered sufficiently, he asked, "You dp, of course you do, I'm sure you still have all the...little packages?" "Oh, no," said Coxe. "NO? Oh, my God. What did you do with them, Mr. Coxe?" "Ate them." "You...ate...them? Ate -- ? No. You didn't. Not all of them. You couldn't have done that, Mr. Coxe. Please tell me that you could not have done that." "I had to give a lot of them away, and everybody said they were delicious. And really... Uh, Mr. -- ? Mr., uh..." The little man got unsteadily to his feet. His face was ashen. "This is horrible, horrible." He stumbled to the door. "You are a fiend. All our work...all our plans... and you, you..." He turned to Coxe. "I hate you. Oh, I hate you." "Now, see here." "...Mr. Coxe, you'll never realize the enormity of your crime. You've eaten all of us!" With that, he slammed the door and was gone. Coxe went back to the other room. "Who was it, honey?" "Ah, some nut. Seems he had first claim on the refrigerator." "I'll bet it was about the fish eggs." "Yeah, he wanted them." "Oh, dear. Do you think he can do anything to us?" "I don't think so, not now. It's too late," Coxe concluded. IF # Novelette Got any dragons to kill? Here's the fastest -- and wildest -- way! I N a gleaming chrome and glass federal building located at the center of Venusport, Division Chief Carl Wattles wearily arose from his office couch. He had been taking his usual two-hour, after-lunch nap, but today it had brought him little refreshment. Earlier he had received an unexpected report that made sleep impossible. "John?" he mumbled. John Claxson, the generously padded assistant division earwax but did not remove his feet from the blotter of his desk. "Yeah, Chief?" "I've heard from the Kentons again." "I thought something was deviling you, the way you was carrying on in your sleep." He raised thick eyebrows. "Is their production down again?"  # Worse than that, John. Kenton has had the gall to request time off to build a new house!" "No! I can't believe it." "I can't either, John. They know it's not in the Manual." "Certainly it's not, Chief. The nerve of those people wanting to do something that's not in the Manual !" "People like us wrote the Manual, John," the Chief added with simple modesty. "That is why it is so good, good, good." "I know," said John, accepting the weight. Then he complained bitterly, "Wanting to build a new house ! They are supposed to do personal stuff at night, of when it's raining. The Chief allowed his rage to climb. "They've got nothing to do but go out into the jungle and pick a little old bale of pretzins every day, but do you think they are going to do it? No. They want me to go and do it for them!" "You can't do it, Chief!" protested John.  M Y ou know I can't J ohn," agreed  Wattles  as he stretched. "I got all I can manage right here. More' "What you got to do. Chief ?" John asked curiously, forgetting caution for a moment. "Plenty !" retorted the Chief. "I guess you have at that," John admitted, getting back aboard. "Time was," brooded the Chief, "when that Kenton was a fair pretzin finder. But all he can think of to do now is to find excuses to goldbrick. Wait until he sees the stiff memorandum I'm sending him..." far from their Venusian jungle cabin that morning before the vacuum snake hung one on her. The thick, twofoot-long pest lay very still on the ground, and she only got a glimpse of it before it jumped. Out it whipped to its full, slim, six-foot length and wrapped around her throat. Fangs struck, and in three seconds -- with a loud slurp -- it had withdrawn a quart of her blood. Then it unwrapped just as swiftly as it had come, and leaped into the cover of the jungle. The hefty young matron wobbled back to the cabin. "Pole !" she called as she hurried ip. "I've been slurped!" "Again?" her lanky husband asked, looking up from the reports on his desk. "I'm so sorry f Pole," sha said contritely. "Well, sit down and start recovering, Bliss," he said in a kindly manner. "You can't pick any pretzins today." "But I wanted to pick prefzins, Pole. Darn that vacuum snake and his fast draft." "I just hope the neighborhood dragon doesn't come around while you're in that weakened condition, Bliss," Pole worried as he totaled up the month's production on his reports. He decided, "I had better take time off from pretzin hunting today so I can be handy to help you with your getaway, if need arises." "Oh, the dragon never bothers us," Bliss said uneasily. "He has gotten close enough to burn up several of our pretzin patches, though. He may get to this cabin some day." "He doesn't mean any harm," defended Bliss. "I'm sure he wouldn't want to eat us. They are known to be strictly vegetarians." "No, he won't eat us. He'll cook us, unless we can run away fast enough -- but he'll never eat us." They heard a faraway sound. "What is that crisp crackling that sounds like a dank forest burning?" wondered Bliss. Pole scrambled to the door, "The dragon is coming! He's headed straight for this cabin r J#S "Shall we be going ?" asked Bliss, grabbing her clothes. A few minutes later, at a distance of a thousand yards, Pole and Bliss, loaded with all their portable possessions, watched their cabin burst into flames as a roaring, forty-foot lizard, with fifty-foot flames gouting from his mouth, ambled through their clearing. "There, he's gone," said Pole as the dragon passed on. "I'd better put out the fire." Dipping water from a nearby pond with a bucket, Pole had, after fifty-three fast buckets, a blackened ruin of what had formerly been their rude jungle cabin. Pole moved a new, nearly finished split-pole settee he had been working on back in the jungle to their front porch. As they seated themselves, he complacently surveyed the slits burned between the charred boards of the walls and roof. "The roof will leak a mite when it rains, but it will let in ts of light," he observed optimistically. "There's nothing like lots of light," Bliss agreed. "Charcoal is healthful, too." "It absorbs poison like nobody's business !" "However, since it rains every day on Venus we will have to have a new cabin." He sighed resignedly. "And you know what that means : Lower production, fewer of the magical, antibiotic pretzins. I'd better radio the Division Chief" A S the jet plane flashed across their vision, the Kentons saw a tiny bundle drop from it. Pole ran out into the jungle and was under the parachute when it landed. He came back into the clearing unwrapping a package. "It sure was thoughtful of Mr. Wattles to answer so fast," said Pole, as he opened the little package. "And will you look here in the middle ! He even sent us a present!" "It's a beautiful, plain white, rectangular carton of approximately three by seven inches," she said breathlessly. "But we mustn't be selfish," Pole reminded hastily. "Let's see what Mr. Wattles has to say in his memorandum here first." They both read the green memorandum. To: Napoleon B. Kenton, Special Agent, Pretzin Division, Venus From: Chief, Pretzin Division, Venusport, Venus Subject: Personal Problems of Special Agents In a radio message dated January #, # you related certain personal problems you were experiencing, and you stated that delays might be encountered in your harvesting of pretzins. regret your difficulties. However, it is believed by Frank Banta these misfortunes may be overcome during leisure hours and should be soon resolved without loss of a measurable part of your productive time. Pole interrupted his reading to beam at his wife. "He's sorry for us, Bliss, and he hopes things will be better for us soon." "Isn't he the nicest man?" They read on. In your radio message you refer to difficulties you are having with a snake and a lizard (which you colloquially refer to as a dragon). It is believed that the enclosed package, serial number #G-#, will cope with the matter, and that no further report will be necessary with respect to snakes and lizards. Carl Wattles Chief, Pretzin Division Eagerly Bliss Kenton opened the plain white carton bearing the serial number #G-#. She slid out the two and three-quarter by six and one-half inch fumigation bomb can. Bliss read the label. " 'Lizards and snakes go 'way and stay. Only # F. O. B. U. S. A.' Why, it rhymes!" she said, a wondering smile lighting her face. "Does it say how long the lizards are that go 'way and stay?" Pole asked anxiously, thinking of the neighborhood's forty-foot hellion. "All lizards, it says. And only #. "Good ! But how about snakes that can jump ten feet and wrap around your throat?" "I read that wrong," she amended. "All lizards and snakes. And only #." "I'm glad," said Pole, choking up. "The Division Chief has been thinking of us," said Bliss, wiping away a tear. "He knows we field personnel have our problems." "He knew just what we needed," lauded Bliss. Pole looked up from the canister as he heard a sound. "And here comes the dragon back! Our lizard repellent arrived just in the nick of time !" Down the rain-forest aisle the roaring mammoth rapidly waddled. Its flames -- even longer than its body -- withered into blackened ruin all that stood before it. This time, instead of snatching up their possessions and fleeing to safety, the Kentons stood their ground with their pocket-size fumigation bomb that had been designed for pocketsized lizards. When the dragon was within throwing distance, Pole flipped on the spray jet of the tiny bomb and threw it as straight as he could. Then both of them sped away, leaving all their possessions at the mercy of the advancing, ravening flames... Pole! Isn't our new V-J home just the dandiest that a Venusian pretzin-gathering couple ever had?" "It is dandy," concurred Pole. "Who'd ever have thought we would have a cabin that was only an inch thick, and yet was absolutely water tight?" "The table makes a dandy smokestack too, when it's propped up. Fireproof." "How about the mouth when it's propped open?" challenged Pole. "Who could beat a front porch like that?" "You can't. You just can't!" "Correct." He ruminated, We'd never have been able to cut the hide. Not a tough, inch-thick one like this one." "I'll never get over the way you gutted the dragon. You cut him loose inside, just below the tonsils -- " "And after I lassoed them, I gave a run -- " "And all his guts came stringing out!" "Had him cleaned to the bone within an hour ! i d Pole proudly. "We would never have had it so good if it hadn't been for Mr. Wattles' helpfulness," reminded Bliss. "That fumigation bomb, besides making a horrible stink -- " " -- explodes when it enters a dragon's flaming mouth -- and blows his methane tanks." C i I l;e screen is. a unique new ihagazint; made for those who the.artof .motion picture phantasT v Tow in.'its-fi rM issue  LTorrOrs " containshia n  photo s aVt ic.it s and otlYer-'lite ms never 'before Ixphii.Hhed... If you. enjoy...'something, out ; ,f l.Ut orciinary, s.end your name and add res.-. aloSlU vith . # to Mr. Ahxardor Soma.' Publisher, Horrors Of hoSore'ef t r, ij r r hion Ave. Brooklyn en h  v by Frank Banta IF Feature t i Dear Editor: ' ' and practices the art of huntI would like to congratulate ing to the ultimate degree. He you on an excellent issue -- cover to tover. And 'speaking of covers, this is the nicest one I've seen yet this year from anyone. More of this sort, please, please? Enjoyed the editorial no end. All interesting ideas. I will say however that it will remain ever incomprehensible to me that anyone ( especially Schweitzer) should think that the mass of people were thinkers and for some reason had given it up. Fat chance. Pat McLean P.O. Box #I Anacortes, Wash.    Dear Editor: I would greatly appreciate your help in running down the title, author and publisher of the story I have outlined below. (I might add that this story is being considered as a feature fijm and the author would benefit greatly if the film yrene.)  X A mari lives on an island. hunts live men. He gets his prey, as I remember, by causing shipwrecks on the island. An elaborate hunt is arranged with the victim given various aids, such as a knife, map, etc. As I remember, the hunter uses bow and arrow; and I believe too that dogs are used in tracking the victim. # Babcock Avenue Hollywood, Calif.  Any long-memoried readers care to help out on this one? -- Editor.    Dear Editor: In your magazine you have been running a series of Keith Laumer's "Retief" novelettes. Can you tell me which issues contained them? Tames P. Jackson R. D, #I Danville, Penna.  Every issue from September #I to date had a Retief novelette. More upcoming, though not in every future issue (next Keith Laumer story will probably be a non-Retief novelette, The Long Remembered Thunder.) -- Editor .    Dear Editor: I have just finished reading Jots and Tittles. That Sturgeon guy sure has an imagination ! Maybe, maybe, maybe... but don't get me wrong. He's one of my favorite writers, and he is feature editor of my favorite science fiction magazine. To prove what I said about If being my favorite magazine, I am sending a check for a subscription with this letter. Kent McDaniel # Metropolis St. Metropolis, #.    Dear (?) Editor: How come the Groaci illustrations for the Retief stories in the July  March issues are completely different in appearance? Jack Baldwin # N. Alisos St. Santa Barbara, Calif.  Because we goofed and gave the stories to different artists. We'll watch that. -- Editor .    Dear Editor: Leaving aside Unbreakable Custom, why is it universal in sf magazines to put the title and author of the story running at the bottom of the page, instead of at the top where it would be easier to read? #. What is the significance of the "K" on the cover near the price? David B. Jodrey, Jr. New York, N.Y.  (#) Well, it seems to us to look better that way. Anybody else have a strong feeling? (#) "K" stands for our distributor, Kable News Company. -- Editor .    Dear Editor: Why did you take away the book review column, and why can't we have it back? I think it is something that most SF fans appreciate. Why not have the fans write in their opinions on the subject?" Paul Brague Box # Eldred, N.Y.    Sorry to be So brief this time -- no room! We'll try to do better next issue... in many ways...you'll see some changes in If that we think you'll welcome in near-future issues... By the way, our "first" story for the month is Charles Cunningham's The Man Who Flew . Next issue we introduce another new writer, Gary Wright, with a novelette we like very much indeed. -- The Editor.  j won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh No. GX-# by Lynd Ward tjmir #famr rrr The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer  Order from #I Hudson Street, New York #, N. Y. For Editors on the Way Up... by Reddick  Crowell Points the way toward successful editing -- and higher rewards. A practical guide to effective editing, this book deepens your understanding -- gives you a surer grasp of purposes and objectives -- analyzes the methods, patterns and procedures followed by editors of outstanding industrial publications. Shows you new ways to achieve charm and human interest in your writing -- how to budget -- short cuts -- mistakes to avoid -- how to get more for your money -- how to increase -- and demonstrate -- your value to management. Use the coupon below to send for your copy.mm mm  m wmm mm mmmm mm mmm mm mm mm mmi mmi mmm mmm mmm im mm mm mm im mm im mm mmm i Name Firm Address  Losf in Space  its vividly real telepathic society, detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finishing the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Vs OF # Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, The Original Edition -- Complete ! Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours For Only #I Plus Postage # Name. Address City State. I Enclose. worlds of Vol. #, Number # All Stories New science fiction Sol Cohen, Publisher Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Next issue (March) on sale January #th IF published bi-monthly by Digest Productions Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President. Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South and Central America and U. S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Digest Productions Corporation. #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed In this magazine are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N.Y. IF  Editorial T he main conclusion to be concluded from our little game (can you predict what the lead story in the paper will be # days from now?) is that people read sf, or at least people who read , will not limit themselves. They wouldn't follow format. (So and so has been happening. Such and such has happened. Therefore this and that will happen in # days.) They wouldn't predict for three months. But boy, they go high and far out! A surprising number used the safe "I predict that things will happen as usual" kind of prognostication, and used it amusingly, like L. J. Fremstad of El Paso, who said, "The Democrats will start a piece of legislation, the Republicans will call it Socialism, the Democrats will call it Liberalism, the American public will put up with it." Rosalyn Woldin, of Brooklyn, N. Y v . came up with a terrifying clutch of disasters, not one of which would fall within the #day limit, but which included a generation of muscle-bound youth due to the success of the Kennedy physical-fitness program and the failure ofother kinds of education; a deterioration in public confidence in doctors because of Medicare arguments and the Canadian strike, plus a rise in quackery; religious protests against space exploration to the point of dangerous fanaticism; monetary inflation to the point of economic ruin, and union recognition of purchasing power as a more important consideration than nore dollars; a worsening of interracial strife, then its ultimate solution by boycott; and finally, scandalous behavior by movie people will abate, then continue as before. One respondent made a prediction which I shall not repeat, though I shall acknowledge it if and when it turns out to be true. It has to do with a course of action to be taken by a public figure. If we modestly assume that this personage probably never would see the copy of If with the prediction and, further, would probably do nothing of the kind, the possibility still remains that if the prediction is right, the prediction itself might have been a motivating factor. I wouldn't want that on your conscience or mine. Space prohibits a listing of all contributors. Our warm thanks to all participants Mavbe we'll try this again some time, when I am better able to phrase the limitations of the problem. A prize one-year subscription to IF goes to Mrs. Angelo Castagna of Thompson ville, Conn., she of the "man-powered space ship", with our thanks and our blessings. be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings . Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe S.C.X.  Scribe S.C.X. i San Jose, California  Please send me the free book. The Mastery  , of Life, which explains how I may learn to  i use my faculties and powers of mind. ( I i I Name t i J Address I IF  Novelette OF Illustrated by Schelling Out In the great gas cloud of the Orion Nebula McCray found an ally -- and a fool H is name was Herrell McCray and he was scared. As best he could tell, he was in a sort of room no bigger than a prison cell. Perhaps it was a prison cell. Whatever it was, he had no business in it; for five minutes before he had been spaceborne, on the Long Jump from Earth to the thriving colonies circling Betelgeuse Nine. McCray was ship's navigator, plotting course corrections -- not that there were any, ever; but the reason there were none was that, the check-sightings were made every hour of the long flight. He had read off the azimuth angles from the computer sights, automatically locked on their beacon stars, and found them correct; then out of long habit confirmed the locking mechanism visually. It was only a personal quaintness; he had done it a thousand times. And while he was looking at Betelgeuse, Rigel and Saiph... it happened. The room was totally dark, and it seemed to be furnished with a collection of hard, sharp, sticky and knobby objects of various shapes and a number of inconvenient sizes. McCray tripped over something that rocked under his feet and fell against something that clattered hollowly. He picked himself up, braced against somtthing that smelled dangerously of halogen compounds, and scratched his shoulder, right through his space-tunic, against something that vibrated as he touched it. McCray had no idea where he was, and no way to find out. Not only was he in darkness, but in utter silence as well. No. Not quite utter silence. Somewhere, just at the threshold of his senses, there was something like a voice. He could not quite hear it, but it was there. He sat as still as he could, listening; it remained elusive. Probably it was only an illusion. But the room itself was hard fact. McCray swore violently and out loud. It was crazy and impossible. There simply was no way for him to get from a warm, bright navigator's cubicle on Starship Jodrell Bank to this damned, dark, dismal hole of a place where everything was out to hurt him and nothing explained what was going on. He cried aloud in exasperation: "If I could only seer He tripped and fell against something that was soft, slimy and, like baker's dough, not at all resilient. A flickering halo of pinkish light appeared. He sat up, startled. He was looking at something that resembled a suit of medieval armor. I t. was, he saw in a moment, not armor but a spacesuit. But what was the light? And what were these other things in the room? Wherever he looked, the light danced along with his eyes It was like having tunnel vision or wearing blinders. He could see what he was looking at, but he could see nothing else. And the things he could see made no sense. A spacesuit, yes; he knew that he could construct a logical explanation for that with no trouble -- maybe a subspace meteorite striking the Jodrell Bank , an explosion. himself knocked out, brought here in asuit... well, it was an explanation with more holes than fabric, like a fisherman's net, but at least it was rational. How to explain a set of Gibbon's Decline and FaU of the Roman Empire? A space-ax? Or the old-fashioned child's rocking-chair, the chemistry set -- or, most of all, the scrap of gaily printed fabric that, when he picked it up, turned out to be a girl's scanty bathing suit? It was slightly reassuring, McCray thought, to find that most of the objects were more or less familiar. Even the child's chair -- why, he'd had one more or less like that himself, long before he was old enough to go to school. But what were they doing here? Not everything he saw was familiar. The walls of the room itself were strange. They were not metal or plaster or knotty pine; they were not papered, painted or overlaid with stucco. They seemed to be made of some sort of hard organic compound, perhaps a sort of plastic or processed cellulose. It was hard to tell colors in the pinkish light. But they seemed to have none. They were "neutral" -- the color of aged driftwood or unbleached cloth. Three of the walls were that way, and the floor and ceiling. The fourth wall was something else. Areas in it had the appearance of gratings; from them issued the pungent, distasteful halogen odor. They might be ventilators, he thought; but if so the air they brought in was worse than what he already had. McCray was beginning to feel more confident. It was astonishing how a little light made an impossible situation bearable, how quickly his courage flowed back when he could see again. He stood still, thinking. Item, a short time ago -- subjectively it seemed to be minutes -- he had been aboard the Jodrell Bank with nothing more on his mind than completing his check-sighting and meeting one of the female passengers for coffee. Item, apart from being shaken up and -- he admitted it -- scared damn near witless, he did not seem to be hurt. Item, wherever he was now, it became, not so much what had happened to him, but what had happened to the ship? He allowed that thought to seep into his mind. Suppose there had been an accident to the Jodrell Bank . He could, of course, be dead. All this could be the fantasies of a cooling brain. McCray grinned into the pink-lit darkness. The thought had somehow refreshed him, like icewater between rounds, and with a clearing head he remembered what a spacesuit was good for. It held a radio. He pressed the unsealing tabs, slipped his hand into the vacant chest of the suit and pulled out the hand mike. "This is Herrell McCray," he said, "calling the Jodrell Bank" No response. He frowned. "This is Herrell McCray, calling Jodrell Bank . "Herrell McCray, calling anybody, come in, please." But there was no answer. Thoughtfully he replaced the microphone. This was ultrawave radio, faster than light, with a range measured, at least, in hundreds of lightyears. If there was no answer, he was a good long way from anywhere. Ot course, the thing might not be operating.  He reached for the microphone again -- He cried aloud. The pinkish lights went out. He was in the dark again, worse dark than before. For before the light had gone, McCray had seen what had escaped his eyes before. The suit and the microphone were clear enough in the pinkish glimmer; but the hand -- his own hand, cupped to hold the microphone -- he had not seen at all. Nor his arm. Nor, in one fleeting moment of study, his chest. McCray could not see any part of his own body at all. II omeone else could. Someone was watching Herrell McCray, with the clinical fascination of a biochemist observing the wigglings of paramecia in a new antibiotic -- and with the prayerful emotions of a starving, shipwrecked, sailor, watching the inward bobbing drift of a wave-born cask that may contain food. Suppose you call him "Hatcher" (and suppose you call it a "him.") Hatcher was not exactly male, be cause his race had no true males; but it did have females and he was. certainly not that. Hatcher did not in any way look like a human being, but they had features in common. If Hatcher and McCray had somehow managed to strike up an acquaintance, they might have got along very well. Hatcher, like McCray. was an adventurous soul, young, able, well-learned in the technical sciences of his culture. Both enjoyed games -- McCray baseball, pokeT and three-dimensional chess; Hatcher a number of sports which defy human description. Both held positions of some importance -- considering their ages -- in the affairs of their respective worlds. Physically they were nothing alike. Hatcher was a threefoot, hardshelled sphere of jelly. He had "arms" and "legs," but they were not organically attached to "himself." They were snakelike things which obeyed the orders of his brain as well as your mind can make your toes curl; but they did not touch him directly. Indeed, they worked as well a yard or a quarter-mile away as they did when, rarely, they rested in the crevices they had been formed from in his "skin." At greater distances they worked less well, for reasons irrelevant to the Law of Inverse Squares. Hatcher's principal task at this moment was to run the "probe team" which had McCray under observation, and he was more than a little excited. His members, disposed about the room where he had sent them on various errands, quivered and shook a little; yet they were the calmest limbs in the room; the members of the other team workers were in a state of violent commotion. The probe team had had a shock. "Paranormal powers," muttered Hatcher's second in command, and the others mumbled agreement. Hatcher ordered silence, studying the specimen from Earth. After a long moment he turned his senses from the Earthman. "Incredible -- but it's true enough," he said. "I'd better report. Watch him," he added, but that was surely unnecessary. Their job was to watch McCray, and they would do their job; and even more, not one of them could have looked away to save his life from the spectacle of a creature as odd and, from their point of view, hideously alien as Herrell McCray. H atcher hurried through the halls of the great buried structure in which he worked, toward the place where the supervising council of all probes would be in permanent session. They admitted him at once. Hatcher identified himself and gave a quick, concise report: "The subject recovered consciousness a short time ago and began to inspect his enclosure. His method of doing so was to put his own members in physical contact with the various objects in the enclosure. After observing him do this for a time we concluded he might be unable to see and so we illuminated his field of vision for him. "This appeared to work well for a time. He seemed relatively undisturbed. However, he then reverted to physical-contact, manipulating certain appurtenances of an artificial skin we had provided for him. "He then began to vibrate the atmosphere by means of resonating organs in his breathing passage. "Simultaneously, the object he was holding, attached to the artificial skin, was discovered to be generating paranormal forces." The supervising council rocked with excitement. "You're sure?" demanded one of the councilmen. "Yes, sir. The staff is preparing a technical description of the forces now, but I can say that they are electromagnetic vibrations modulating a carrier wave of very high speed, and in turn modulated by the vibrations of the atmosphere caused by the subject's own breathing." "Fantastic," breathed the councillor, in a tone of dawning hope. "How about communicating with him, Hatcher? Any progress?" "Well... not much, sir. He suddenly panicked We don't know why; but we thought we'd better pull back and let him recover for a while." The council conferred among itself for a moment, Hatcher waiting. It was not really a waste of time for him; with the organs he had left in the probe-team room, he was in fairly close touch with what was going on -- knew that McCray was once again fumbling among the objects in the dark, knew that the team-members had tried illuminating the room for him briefly and again produced the rising panic. Still, Hatcher fretted. He wanted to get back. "Stop fidgeting," commanded the council leader abruptly. "Hatcher, you are to establish communication at once." "But, sir... " Hatcher swung closer, his thick skin quivering slightly; he would have gestured if he had brought members with him to gesture with. "We've done everything we dare. We've made the place homey for him -- " actually, what he said was more like, we've warmed the biophysical nuances of his enclosure -- "and tried to guess his needs; and we're frightening him half to death. We can't go faster. This creature is in no way similar to us, you know. He relies on paranormal forces -- heat, light, kinetic energy -- for his life. His chemistry is not ours, his processes of thought are not ours, his entire organism is closer to the inanimate rocks of a seabottom than to ourselves." "Understood, Hatcher. In your first report you stated these creatures were intelligent." "Yes, sir. But not in our way." "But in a way, and you must learn that way. I know." One lobster-claw shaped member drifted close to the councillor's body and raised itself in an admonitory gesture. "You want time. But we don't have time, Hatcher. Yours is not the only probe team working. The Central Masses team has just turned in a most alarming report." "Have they secured a subject?" Hatcher demanded jealously. The councillor paused. "Worse than that, Hatcher. I am afraid their subjects have secured one of them. One of them is missing." There was a moment's silence. Frozen, Hatcher could only wait. The council room was' like a tableau in a museum until the councillor spoke again, each council member poised over his locus-point, his members drifting about him. Finally the councillor said, "I speak for all of us, I think. If the Old Ones have seized one of our probers our time margin is considerably narrowed. Indeed, we may not have any time at all. You must do everything you can to establish communication with your subject." "But the danger to the specimen -- " Hatcher protested automatically. " -- is no greater," said the councillor, "than the danger to every one of us if we do not find allies now." H atcher returned to his laboratory gloomily. It was just like the council to put the screws on; they had a reputation for demanding results at any cost -- even at the cost of destroying the only thing you had that would make results possible. Hatcher did not like the idea of endangering the Earthman. It cannot be said that he was emotionally involved; it was not pity or sympathy that caused him to regret the dangers in moving too fast toward communication. Not even Hatcher had quite got over the revolting physical differences between the Earthman and his own people. But Hatcher did not want him destroyed. It had been difficult enough getting him here. Hatcher checked through the members that he had left with the rest of his team and discovered that here were no immediate emergencies, so he took time to eat. In Hatcher's race this was accomplished in ways not entirely pleasant to Earthmen. A slit in the lower hemisphere of his body opened, like a purse, emitting a thin, pussy, fetid fluid which Hatcher caught and poured into a disposal trough at the side of the eating room. He then stuffed the slit with pulpy vegetation the texture of kelp; it closed, and his body was supplied with nourishment for another day. He returned quickly to the room. His second in command was busy, but one of the other team workers reported -- nothing new -- and asked Hatcher's appearance before the council. Hatcher passed the question off. He considered telling his staff about the disappearance of the Central Masses team member, but decided against it. He had not been told it was secret. On the other hand, he had not been told it was not. Something of this importance was not lightly to be gossiped about. For endless generations the threat of the Old Ones had hung over his race, those queer, almost mythical beings from the Central Masses of the galaxy. One brush with them, in ages past, had almost destroyed Hatcher's people. Only by running and hiding, bearing one of their planets with them and abandoning it -- with its population -- as a decoy, had they arrived at all. Now they had detected mapping parties of the Old Ones dangerously near the spiral arm of the galaxy in which their planet was located, they had begun the Probe Teams to find some way of combatingihem, or of fleeing again. But it seemed that the Probe Teams themselves might be betraying their existence to their enemies -- "Hatcher!" The call was urgent; he hurried to see what it was about. It was his second in command, very excited. "What is it?" Hatcher demanded. "Wait..." Hatcher was patient; he knew his assistant well. Obviously something was about to happen. He took the moment to call his members back to him for feeding; they dodged back to their niches on his skin, fitted themselves into their vestigial slots, poured back their wastes ii)to his own circulation and ingested what they needed from the meal he had just taken... "Now!" cried the assistant. "Look!" At what passed among Hatcher's people for a viewing console an image was forming. Actually it was the assistant himself who formed it, not a cathode trace or projected shadow; but it showed what it was meant to show. Hatcher was startled. "Another one! And -- is it a different species? Or merely a different sex?" "Study the probe for yourself," the assistant invited. Hatcher studied him frostily; his patience was not, after all, endless. "No matter," he said at last. "Bring the other one in." And then, in a completely different mood, "We may need him badly. our first one now." Hatcher rose and shook himself, his mindless members floating away like puppies dislodged from suck. "Council's orders," he said. "We've got to go into Stage Two of the project at once." Ill B efore Stage Two began, or before Herrell McCray realized it had begun, he had an inspiration. The dark was absolute, but he remembered where the spacesuit had been and groped his way to it and, yes, it had what all spacesuits had to have. It had a light. He found the toggle that turned it on and pressed it... Light. White, flaring, Earthly light, that showed everything -- even himself. "God bless," he said, almost beside himself with joy. Whatever that pinkish, dancing halo had been, it had thrown him into a panic; now that he could see his own hand again, he could blame the weird effects on some strange property of the light. At the moment he heard the click that Vas the beginning of Stage Two. He switched otf the light and stood for a moment, listening. For a second he thought he heard the far-off Voice, quiet, calm and almost hopeless, that he had sensed hours before; but then that was gone. Something else was gone. Some famt mechanical sound that had hardly registered at the time, but was not missing. And there was, perhaps, a nice new sound that had not been there before; A very faint, an almost inaudible elfin hiss. McCray switched the light on and looked around. There seemed to be no change. And yet, surely, it was warmer in here. He could see no difference; but perhaps, he thought, he could smell one. The unpleasant halogen odor from the grating was surely stronger now. He stood there, perplexed. A tinny little voice from the helmet of the space suit said sharply, amazement in its tone, "McCray, is that you? Where the devil are you calling from?" He forgot smell, sound and temperature and leaped for the suit. "This is Herrell McCray," he cried. "I'm in a room of some sort, apparently on a planet of approximate Earth mass. I don't know -- " "McCray!" cried the tiny voice in his ear. "Where are you? This is Jodrell Bank calling. Answer, please!" "I am answering, damn it," he roared. "What took you so long?" "Herrell McCray," droned the tiny voice in his ear, "Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, this is Jodrell Bank responding to your message, acknowledge please. Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray..." It kept on, and on. McCray took a deep breath and thought. Something was wrong. Either they didn't hear him, which meant the radio wasn't transmitting, or -- no That was not it; they had heard him. because they were responding. But it seemed to take them so long... Abruptly his face went white. Took them so long! He cast back in his mind, questing for a fact, unable to face its implications. When was it he called them? Two hours ago? Three? Did that mean -- did it possibly mean -- that there was a lag of an hour or two each way? Did it, for example, mean that at the speed of faster than light, it took hours to get a message to the ship and back? And if so... where in the name of heaven was he? H errell McCray was a navigator, which is to say, a man who has learned to trust the evidence of mathematics and instrument readings beyond the guesses of his "common sense." When Jodrell Bank, hurtling faster than light in its voyage between stars, made its regular position check, common sense was a liar. Light bore false witness. The line of sight was trustworthy directly forward and directly after -- sometimes not even then -- and it took computers, sensing their data through instruments, to comprehend a star bearing and convert three fixes into a position. If the evidence of his radio contradicted common sense, common Sense was wrong. Perhaps it was impossible to believe what the radio's message implied; but it was not necessary to "believe," only to act. McCray thumbed down the transmitter button and gave a concise report of his situation and his guesses. "I don't know how I got here. I don't know how long I've been gone, since I was unconscious for a time. However, if the transmission lag is a reliable indication -- " he swallowed and went on -- "I'd estimate I am something more than five hundred light-years away from you at this moment. That's all I have to say, except for one more word: Help." He grinned sourly and released the button. The message was on its way, and it would be hours before he could have a reply. Therefore he had to consider what to do next. He mopped his brow. With the droning, repetitious call from the ship finally quiet, the room was quiet again. And warm... Very warm, he thought tardily; and more than that. The halogen stench was strong in his nostrils again. Hurriedly McCray scrambled into the suit. By the time he was sealed down he was coughing from the bottom of his lungs, deep, tearing rasps that  pained him, uncontrollable. Chlorine or fluorine, one of them was in the air he had been breathing. He could not guess where it had come from; but it was ripping his lungs out. He flushed the interior of the suit out with a reckless disregard for the wastage of his air reserve, holding his breath as much as he could, daring only shallow gasps that made him retch and gag. After a long time he could breath, though his eyes He could see the fumes in the room now. The heat was building up. Automatically -- now that he had put it on and so started its serVocircuits operating -- the suit was cooling him. This was a deep-space suit, regulation garb when going outship. It was good up to at least five hundred degrees in thin air, perhaps three or four hundred in dense. In thin air or in space it was the elastic joints and couplings that depolymerized when the heat grew too great; in dense air, with conduction pouring energy in faster than the cooling coils could suck it out and hurl it away, it was the refrigerating equipment that broke down. McCray had no way of knowing just how hot it was going to get. Nor, for that matter, had the suit been designed to operate in a corrosive medium. All in all it Was time for him to do something. A mong the debris on the floor, he remembered, was a five-foot space-ax, tungsten-steel blade and springy aluminum shaft. McCray caught it up and headed for the door. It felt good in his gauntlets, a rewarding weight; any weapon straightens the back of the man who holds it, and McCray was grateful for this one. With something concrete to do he could postpone questioning. Never 'mind why be had been brought here; never mind how. Never mind what he would, or could, do next; all those questions could recede into the background of his mind while he swung the ax and battered his way out of this poisoned oven. Crash-clangl The double jolt ran up the shaft of the ax, through his gauntlets and into his arm; but he was making progress, he could see the plastic -- or whatever it was -- of the door. It was chipping out. Not easily, very reluctantly; but flaking out in chips that left a white powdery residue. At this rate, he thought grimly, he would be an hour getting through it. Did he have an hour? But it did not take an hour. One blow was luckier than the rest; it must have snapped the lock mechanism. The door shook and slid ajar. McCray got the thin of the blade into the crack and pried it wide. He was in another room, maybe a hall, large and bare. McCray put the broad of his back against the broken door and pressed it as nearly closed as he could; it might not keep the gas and heat out, but it would retard them. The room was again unlighted -- at least to McCray's eyes...There was not even that pink pseudo-light that had baffled him; here was nothing but the beam of his suit lamp. What it showed was cryptic. There were evidences of use: shelves, boxy contraptions that might have been cupboards, crude level surfaces attached to the walls that might have been workbenches. Yet they were queerly contrived, for it was not possible to guess from them much about the creatures who used them. Some were near the floor, some at waist height, some even suspended from the ceiling itself. A man would need a ladder to work at these benches and McCray, staring, thought briefly of many-armed blind giants or shapeless huge intelligent amoebae, and felt the skin prickle at the back of his neck. He tapped half-heartedly at one of the closed cupboards, and was not surprised when it proved as refractory as the door. Undoubtedly he could batter it open, but it was not likely that much would be left of its contents when he was through; and there was the question of time. But his attention was diverted by a gleam from one of the benches. Metallic parts lay heaped in a pile. He poked at them with a stiff-fingered gauntlet; they were oddly familiar. They were, he thought, very much like the parts of a bullet-gun. In fact, they were. He could recognized barrel, chamber, trigger, even a couple of cartridges, neatly opened and the grains of powder stacked beside them. It was an older, clumsier model than the kind he had seen in survival locker, on the Jodrell Bank -- and abruptly wished he were carrying now -- but it was a pistol. Another trophy, like the strange assortment in the other room? He could not guess. But the others had been more familiar; they all have come from his own ship. He was prepared to swear that nothing like this antique had been aboard. The drone began again in his ear, as it had at five-minute intervals all along: "Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, this is Jodrell Bank calling Herrell McCray..." And louder, blaring, then fading cuits toned the signal down, another voice. A woman's voice, crying out in panic and fear: " Jodrell Bank l Where are you? Help!" IV H atcher's second in command said: "He has got through the first survival test. In fact, he broke his way out! What next?" "Wait!" Hatcher ordered sharply. He was watching the new specimen and a troublesome thought had occurred to him. The new one was female and seemed to be in pain; but it was not the pain that disturbed Hatcher, it was something far more immediate to his interests. "I think," he said slowly, "that they are in contact." His assistant vibrated startlemenC "I know," Hatcher said, "but watch. Do you see? He is going straight toward her." Hatcher, who was not human, did not possess truly human emotions; but he did feel amazement when he was amazed, and fear when there was cause to be afraid. These specimens, obtained with so much difficulty, needed so badly, were his responsibility. He knew the issues involved much better than any of his helpers. They could only be surprised at the queer antics of the aliens with attached limbs and strange powers. Hatcher knew that this was not a freak show, but a matter of life and death. He said, musing: "This new one, I cannot communicate with her, but I get -- almost -- a whisper, now and then. The first one, the male, nothing. But this female is perhaps not quite mute." "Then shall we abandon him and work with her, forgetting the first one?" Hatcher hesitated. "No," he said at last. "The male is responding well. Remember that when last this experment was done every subject died; he is alive at least. But I am wondering. We can't quite communicate with the female -- " "But?" "But I'm not sure that others can't." T he woman's voice was at such close range that McCray's suit located her direction easily enough, shielding the tiny built-in antenna with the tungsten-steel blade of the ax, while she begged him to hurry. Her voice was heavily accented, with some words in a language he did not recognize. She seemed to be in shock. McCray was hardly surprised at that; he had been close enough to shock himself. He tried to reassure her as he searched for a way out of the hall, but in the middle of a word her voice stopped. He hesitated, hefting the ax, glancing back at the way he had come. There had to be a way out, even if it meant chopping through a wall. When he turned around again there was a door. It was oddly shaped and unlike the door he had hewn through, but clearly a door all the same, and it was open. McCray regarded it grimly. He went back in his memory with meticulous care. Had he not looked at this very spot a matter of moments before? He had. And had there been an open door then? There had n#t. There hadn't been even a shadowy outline of the three-sided, uneven opening that stood there now. Still, it led in the proper direction. McCray added one more inexplicable fact to his file and walked through. He was in another hall -- or tunnel -- rising quite steeply to the right. By his reckoning it was the proper direction. He labored up it, sweating under the weight of the suit, and found another open door, this one round, and behind it -- Yes, there was the woman whose voice he had heard. It was a woman, all right The voice had been so strained that he hadn't been positive Even now, short black hair might not have proved it. and she was lying face down but the waist and hips were a woman's, even though she wore a bulky, auilted suit of coveralls. He knelt beside her and gently turned her face. She was unconscious. Broad, dark face, with no make-up; she was ap-parently in her late thirties. She appeared to be Chinese. She breathed, a little raggedly but without visible discomfort; her face was relaxed as though she were sleeping. She did not rouse as he moved her. He realized she was breathing the air of the room they were in. His instant first thought was that she was in danger of asphyxiation; he started to leap up to get, and put her into, the small, flimsy space suit he saw slumped in a corner. At second thought he realized that she would not be breathing so comfortably if the air were full of the poisonous reek that had driven him out of the first room. There was an obvious conclusion to be drawn from that; perhaps he could economize on his own air reserve. Tentatively he cracked the seal of his faceplate and took a cautious breath. The faint reek of halogens was still there, but it was not enough even to make his eyes water, and the temperature of the air was merely pleasantly warm. He shook her. but she did not wake. He stood up and regarded her thoughtfully. It was a disappointment. Her voice had given him hope of a companion, someone to talk things over with, to compare notes -- someone "who. if not possessing any more answers than himself, could at least serve as a soundingboard in the give-and-take of discussion that might make some sort of sense out of the queerness that permeated this place. What he had instead was another burden to carry, for she was unable to care for herself and surely he could not leave her in this condition. H e slipped off the helmet absently and pressed the buttons that turned off the suit's cooling units, looking around the chamber. It was bare except for a litter of irrelevant human articles -- much like the one in which he himself had first appeared, except that the articles were not Jodrell Bank's. A woven cane screen, some cooking utensils, a machine like a desk calculator, some books -- he picked up one of the books and glanced at it. It was printed on coarse paper, and the text was in ideographs, Chinese, perhaps; he did not know Oriental languages. McCray knew that the Jodrell this volume of space. The Betel-shipping lanes went: Almost daily departures from some point on Earth to one of the colonies, with equal traffic in the other direction. Of course, if the time-lag in communication did not lie, he was no longer anywhere within that part of the sky; Betelgeuse was only a few hundred light-years from Sol, and subspace radio covered that distance in something ' ke fifty minutes. But suppose the woman came from another ship; perhaps a Singapore or Tokyo vessel, on the same run. She might easily have been trapped as he was trapped. And if she were awake, he could find out from her what had happened, and thus learn something that might be of use. Although it was hard to see what might be of use in these most unprecedented and unpleasant circumstances. The drone from Jodrell Bank began again: "Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, Herrell McCray, this is Jodrell Bank responding -- " He turned the volume down but did not dare turn it off. He had lost track of time and couldn't guess when they would respond to. his last message. He needed to hear that response when it came. Meanwhile, what about his fellow-captive? Her suit was only a flimsy workabout model, a airtight as his but without the bracing required for building jet propulsors into it. It contained air reserves enough, and limited water; but neither food nor emergency medical supplies. McCray had both of these, of course. It was merely one more reason why he could not abandon her and go on... if, that is, he could find some reason for going in one direction preferably to another, and if a wall would conveniently open again to let him go there. He could give her an injection of a stimulant, he mused. Would that improve the situation? Not basically, he decided, with , some regret. Sleep was a need, not a luxury; it would not help her to be awakened chemically, when body was demonstrating its need for rest by refusing to wake to a call. Anyway, if she were not seriously injured she would undoubtedly wake of her own accord before long. He checked pulse and eye-pupils; everything normal, no evidence of bleeding or somatic shock. So much for that. At least he had made one simple decision on his own, he thought with grim humor. To that extent he had reestablished his mastery of his own fate, and it made him feel a touch better. Perhaps he could make some more. What about trying to find a way out of this place, for instance? I t was highly probable that they would not be able to stay here indefinitely, that was the first fact to take into account. Either his imagination was jumpy, or the reek of halogens was a bit stronger. In any case there was no guarantee that this place would remain habitable any longer than the last, and he had to reckon with the knowledge that a spacesuit's air reserve was not infinite. These warrens might prove a death trap. McCray paused, leaning on the haft of his ax, wondering how much of that was reason and how much panic. He knew that he wanted, more than anything to get out of this place, to see sky and stars, to be where no skulking creatures behind false panels in the walls, or peering through televiewers concealed in the furnishings, could trick and trap him. But did he have any reason to believe that he would be better off somewhere else? Might it not be even that this place was a sort of vivarium maintained for his survival -- that the leak of poison gases and heat in the first room was not a deliberate thrust at his safety, but a failure of the shielding that alone could keep him alive? He didn't know, and in the nature of things could not. But paradoxically the thought that escape might increase his danger made him all the more anxious to escape. He wanted to know. If death was waiting for him outside his chamber, McCray wanted to face it -- now -- while he was still in good physical shape. While he was still sane. For there was a limit to how many phenomena he could store away in the back of his mind; sooner or later theepntradictions, the puzzles, the fears would have to be faced. Yet what could he do with the woman? Conceivably he could carry her; but could he also carry her suit? He did not dare take her without it. It would be no kindness to plunge her into another atmosphere of poison, and watch her die because he had taken her from her only hope of safety. Yet the suit weighed at least fifty pounds. His own was slightly more; the girl, say, a hundred and thirty. It added up to more mass than he could handle, at least for more than a few dozen yards. The speaker in his helmet said suddenly: "Herrell McCray, this is Jodrell Bank. Your transmission received. We are vectoring and ranging your signal. Stand by. We will call again in ten minutes." And, in different tone: "God help you,' Mac. What the devil happened to you?" It was a good question. McCray swore uselessly because he didn't know the answer. He took wry pleasure in imagining what was going on aboard Jodrell Bank at that moment. At least not all the bewilderment was his own. They would be utterly baffled. As far as they were concerned, their navigator had been on the bridge at one moment and the next moment gone, tracelessly. That in itself was a major puzzle; the only way off an tion called "suicide." That would have been their assumption, all right, as soon as they realized he was gone mm mm I Wvj' A F# WA'vJk" Pfira and checked the ship to make sure he was not for some reason wandering about in a cargo hold or unconscious in a closet after some hardto-imagine attack from another crewman. They would have thought that somehow, crazily, he had got into a suit -- there was the suit -- and jumped out of a lock. But there would have been no question of going back to look for him. True, they could have tracked his subspace radio if he had used it. But what would have been the good of that? The first question, an all but unanswerable one, would be how long ago he had jumped. Even if they knew that, Jodrell Bank , making more than five hundred times lightspeed, could not be stopped in fewer than a dozen light-years. They could hardly hope to return to even approximately the location in space where he might have jumped; and there was no hope of reaching a position, stopping, casting about, starting again -- the accelerations were too enormous, a man too tiny a dustmote. And, of course, he would have been dead in the first place, anyway. normal space was instantly fatal except within the protecting shield of a ship's engines. So they would have given him up and, hours later -- or days, for he had lost track of time -- they would have received his message. What would they make of that? He didn't know. After all, he hardly knew what he made of it himself. The woman still slept. The way back was still open. He could tell by sniffing the air that the poisons in the atmosphere were still gaining. Ahead there was nothing but blank walls, and the clutter of useless equipment littering the floor. Stolidly McCray closed his mind and waited. The signal came at last. "Mac, we have verified your position." The voice was that of Captain don't know how you got there, but unless the readings lie you're the hell of a long way off. The bearing is identical with Messier object M-# and the distance -- " raggedly -- " is compatible. About a thousand light years from us, Mac. One way or another, you've been kidnaped. I -- I -- " The voice hesitated, unable to say what it could not accept as fact but could not deny. "I think," it managed at last, "that we've finally come across those super-beings in space that we've wondered about." H atcher's detached limbs were quivering with excitement -- and with more than excitement, because he was afraid. He was trying t# conceal from the others just how afraid he was. His second in command reported: "We have the second subject out of consciousness. How long do you want us to keep her that way?" "Until I tell you otherwise! How about the prime subject?" "We can't tell, Hatcher. But you were right. He is in communication with others, it seems, and by paranormal means." Hatcher noted the dismay in what his assistant said. He understood the dismay well enough. It was one thing to work on a project involving paranormal forces as an exercise in theory. It was something else entirely to see them in operation. But there was more cause for dismay than that, and Hatcher alone knew just how bad the situation was. He summoned one of his own members to him and impressed on it a progress report for the Council. He sent it floating through the long warrens of his people's world, ordered his assistants back to their work and closed in his thoughts to consider what had happened. These two creatures, with their command of forces in the paranormal -- i.e., the electromagnetic -- spectrum, seemed able to survive in the environments prepared for them. That was step one. No previous team had done as well. This was not the first time a probe team of his race had snatched a warmblooded biped from a spaceship for study -- because their operation forces, psionic in nature, operated in nonEuclidean ways, it was easiest for them to make contact with the crew of a ship in the non-Euclidean space But it was the first time that the specimens had survived. He reviewed the work they had already done with the male specimen. He had shown himself unable to live in the normal atmospheric conditions of Hatcher's world; but that was to be expected, after all, and the creature had been commendably quick about getting out of a bad environment. Probably they had blundered in illuminating the scene for him, Hatcher conceded. He didn't know how badly he had blundered, for the concept of "light" from a general source, illuminating not only what the mind wished to see but irrelevant matter as well, had never occurred to Hatcher or any of his race; all of their senses operated through the mind itself, and what to them was "light" was a sort of focusing of attention. But although something about that episode which Hacher failed to understand had gone wrong, the specimen had not been seriously harmed by it. The specimen was doing well. Probably they could now go to the hardest tesf of all, the one which would mean success or failure Probably they could so modify the creature as to make direct communication possible. And the other specimen? Hatcher would have frowned, if he had had brow muscles to shape such an expression -- or a brow to be shaped. The female specimen was the danger. His own people knew how to shield their thoughts. This one evidently did not. It was astonishing that the Old Ones had not already encountered these bipeds, so loosely guarded was their radiation -- when they radiated at all, of course, for only a few of them seemed to possess any psionic power worth mentioning. Hatcher hastily drove that thought from his mind, for what he proposed to do with the male specimen was to give him that power. And yet there was no choice for Hatcher's people, because they were faced with disaster. Hatcher, through his communications from the Council, knew how close the disaster was. When one of the probers from the Central Masses team disappeared, the only conclusion that could be drawn was the Old Ones had discovered them. They needed allies; more, they needed allies who had control of the electromagnetic forces that made the Old Ones so potent and so feared. In the male and female they had snatched out of space they might have found those allies. But another thought was in Hatcher's mind: Suppose the Old Ones found them too? Hatcher made up his mind. He could not delay any longer. "Open the way to the surface," he ordered. "As soon as possible, take both of them to where we can work." called "M-#" was no stranger to Herrell McCray. It was the Great Nebula in Orion, in Earth's telescopes a fuzzy patch of light, in cold fact a great and glowing cloud of gas. M-# was not an external galaxy, like most of the "nebulae" in Messier's catalogue, but it was nothing so tiny as a single sun either. Its hydrogen mass spanned dozen of light-years. Imbedded in it -- growing in it, as they fed on the gas that surrounded them -- were scores of hot, bright new suns. New suns. In all the incongruities that swarmed around him McCray took time to consider that one particular incongruity. The suns of the Orion gas cloud were of the spectral class called "B" -- young suns, less than a thousandth as old as a Sol. They simply had not been in existence long enough to own stable planetary systems -- much less planets which themselves were old enough to . have cooled, brewed chemical complexes and thus in time produced life. But surely he was on a planet... Wasn't he? McCray breathed a deep sigh and for one more time turned his mind away from unprofitable speculations. The woman stirred slightly. McCray knelt to look at her; then, on quick impulse, opened his medical kit, took out a single-shot capsule of a stimulant and slipped it neatly to the exposed vein of her arm. In about two minutes she would be awake. Good enough, thought McCray; at least he would have someone to talk to. Now if only they could find a way out of this place. If a door would open, as the other door had, and -- He paused, staring. There was another door. Open. He felt himself swaying, threw out an arm and realized that he was... falling? Floating? Moving toward the door, somehow, not as though he were being dragged, not as though he were walking, but surely and rather briskly moving along. His feet were not touching the ground. It wasn't a volitional matter. His intentions had nothing to do with it. He flailed out, and touched nothing; nor did he slow his motion at alt. JJs fought against it, instinctively; and then reason took over and he stopped. The woman's form lifted from the floor ahead of him. She was still unconscious. From the clutter on the floor, her lightweight space suit rose, too; suit and girl, they floated ahead of him, toward the door and out. McCray cried out and tried to run after them. His legs flailed and, of course, touched nothing; but it did seem that he was moving faster. The woman and her suit were disappearing around a bend, but he was right behind them. He became conscious of the returning reek of gases. He flipped up the plate of his helmet and lunged at the girl, miraculously caught her in one hand and, straining, caught the suit with the other. Stuffing her into the suit was hfcid. awkward work, like dressing a doll that is too large for its garments; but he managed it, closed her helmet, saw the flexible parts of her suit bulge out slightly as its automatic pressure regulators filled it with air. They drove along, faster and faster, until they came to a great portal, and out into the blinding radiance of a molten copper sky. G athered in a circle were a score or more of Hatcher's people. McCray didn't know they were Hatcher's people, of course. He did not know even that they were animate beings, for they lacked all the features of animals that he had been used to. No eyes. No faces. Their detached members, bobbing about seemingly at random, did not appear to have any relation to the irregular 'Inheres that were their owners. The woman got unevenly to her feet, her faceplate staring toward the creatures. McCray heard a smothered exclamation in his suitphones. "Are you all right?' he demanded sharply. The great crystal eye turned round to look at him. "Oh, the man who spoke to me." Her voice was taut but controlled. The accent was gone; her control was complete. "I am Ann Mei-Ling, of the Woomara. What are -- those?" McCray said, "Our kidnappers, I guess. They don't look like much, do they?" She laughed shakily, without answering. The creatures seemed to be waiting for something, McCray thought; if indeed they were creatures and not machines or -- or whatever one might expect to find, in the impossible event of being cast away on an improbable planet of an unexplored sun. He touched the woman's helmet reassuringly and walked toward the aliens, raising his arms. "Hello," he said. "I am Herrell McCray." He waited. He half turned; the woman watching him. "I don't know what to do next," he confessed. "Sit down," she said suddenly. He stared. "No, you must! They want you to sit down." "I didn't hear -- " he began, then shrugged. He sat down. "Now lie stretched out and open your face mask." "Here? Listen -- Ann -- Miss MeiLing, whatever you said your name was! Don't you feel the heat? If I crack my mask -- " "But you must." She spoke very confidently. "It is s' in fo -- what do you call it -- telepathy, I think. But I can hear them. They want you to open your mask. No, it won't kill you. They understand what they are doing." She hesitated, then said, with less assurance, "They need us, McCray. There is something... I am not sure, but something bad. They need help, and think you can give it to them. So open your helmet as they wish, please." McCray closed his eyes and grimaced; but there was no help for it, he had no better ideas. And anyway, he thought, he could close it again quickly enough if these things had guessed wrong. The creatures moved purposefully toward McCray, and he found himself the prisoner of a dozen unattached arms. Surprised, he struggled, but helplessly; no, he would not be able to close the plate again!... But the heat was no worse. Somehow they were shielding him. A tiny member, like one of the unattached arms but much smaller, writhed through the air toward him, hesitated over his eyes and released something tinier still, something so small and so close that McCray could not focus his eyes upon it. It moved deliberately toward his face. The woman was saying, as if to herself, "The thing they fear is -- far away, but -- oh, no! My God!" There was a terrible loud scream, but McCray was not quite sure he heard it. It might have been his own, he thought crazily; for that tiny floating thing had found his face and was burrowing deep inside; and the pain was beyond belief. he pain was incredible. It was worse than anything he had ever felt, and it grew... and then it was gone. What it was that the spheroidal aliens had done to his mind McCray had no way of learning. He could only know that a door had been open. An opaque screen was removed. He was free of his body. He was more than free, he was extended -- increased -- enlarged. He was inside the body of an alien, and the alienwas in him He was also outside both, looking at them. McCray had never felt anything like it in his life. It was a situation without even a close analogue. He had had a woman in his arms, he had been part of a family, he had shared the youthful sense of exploration that comes in small, eager groups: These were the comparisons that came to his mind. This waj so much more than any of these things. He and the alien -- he and, he began to perceive, a number of aliens -- were almost inextricably mingled. Yet they were separate, as one strand of colored thread in a ball of yarn is looped and knotted and intertwined with every other strand, although it retains its own integrity. He was in and 'among many minds, and outside them all. McCray thought: This is how a god must feel.    Hatcher would have laughed -- if he had lips, larynx or mouth to laugh with. He would have laughed in pure exultation, and, indeed, his second in command recognized the marionette quivering of his detached limbs as a shout of glee. "We've done it," cried the assistant, catching his delight. "We've made thg. project work!" "Weve done a great deal more than that," exulted Hatcher. "Go to the supervisors, report to them. Pass on the word to the Central Masses probe. Maintain for the alien the pressure and temperature value he needs -- " "And you, Hatcher?" "I'm going with him -- out in the open! I'm going to show him what we need!" H atcher. McCray recognized that this was a name -- the name of the entity closest to himself, the one that had somehow manipulated his forebrain and released the mind from the prison of the skull. "Hatcher" was not a word but an image, and in the image he saw a creature whose physical shape was unpleasant, but whose instincts and hopes were enough like his own to provide common ground. He saw more than that. This Hatcher was trying to persuade him to move. To venture farther. To come with him... McCray allowed himself to be lead and at once he was outside not only of his own body but of all bodies. He was free in space. The entity that had been born of Herrell McCray was now larger than a sun. He could see, all around him, the wonder and beauty of the great gas cloud in which his body rested, on one tiny planet of one trivial star His sense of time was not changed from what it had been -- he could count the pulses of his own body, still thudding in what, however remote, was his ear -- but he could see things that were terribly slow and vast. He could see the Inotion of the streamers of gas in the cloud as light-pressure drove them outward. He could hear the subtle emanations of ion clashing with hurtling ion. He could see the great blue new suns tunneling through the cloud, building their strength out of the diffuse contaminated hydrogen that made the Orion nebula, leaving relatively clear "holes" behind them. He could see into the gas and through it. He could perceive each star and gassy comet; and he could behold the ordered magnificence of the galaxy of stars, and the universe of galaxies, beyond. The presence beside him was urging him to look beyond, into a denser, richer region of suns. McCray, unsure of his powers, stretched toward it -- and recoiled. There was something there which was terrifying, something cold and restless that watched him come to- ward it with the eyes of a crouched panther awaiting a deer. The presence beside him felt the same terror, McCray knew.He was grateful when Hatcher allowed him to look away from the central clusters and return to the immediate neighborhood of his body. Like a child's toy in a diminishing glass, McCray could see the planet he had left. But it was no planet. It was not a planet, but a great irregular sphere of metal, honeycombed and warrened. He would have thought it a ship, though huge, if it had had engines or instruments... No. It was a ship. Hatcher beside him was proof that these creatures needed neither, not in any Earthly sense, at least. They themselves were engines, with their power to move matter apart from the intervention of other matter. They themselves were instruments, through the sensing of force, that was now within his own power. A moment's hesitant practice, and McCray had the "planet" in the palm of his hand -- not a real palm, not a real hand; but it was there for his inspection. He looked at it and within it and saw the interior nests of Hatcher's folk, found the room where he had been brought, traced his course to the surface, saw his own body in its spacesuit, saw beside it the flaccid suit that had held the strange woman's body... The suit was empty. The suit was empty, and in the moment of that discovery McCray heard a terrible wailing cry -- not in his ears, in his mind -- from the aliens around him The suit was empty. They discovered it the same moment as he. It was wrong and it was dangerous; they were terrified. The companion presence beside him receded into emptiness. In a moment McCray was back in his own body, and the gathering members let him free. VI S ome hundreds of light-years away, the Jodrell Bank was making up lost time on its Betelgeuse run. Herrell McCray swept the long line from Sol to Betelgeuse, with his perceptions that were not his eyes and his touch that was not of matter, until he found it. The giant ship, fastest and hugest of mankind's star vessels, was to him a lumbering tiny beetle. It held friends and something else -- something his body needed -- air and water and food. McCray did not know what would happen to him if, while his mind was out in the stars, his body died. But he was not anxious to find out. McCray had not tried moving his physical body, but with what had been done to his brain he could now do anything within the powers of Hatcher's people. As they had swept him from ship to planet, so he could now hurl his body back from planet to ship. He flexed muscles of his mind that had. never been used before, and in a moment his body was slumped on the floor of the Jodrell Bank's observation bubble. In another moment he was in his body, opening his eyes and looking out into the astonished face of Chris Stoerer, his iunior navigator. "God is heaven," whispered Stoerer, "it's you!" "It is," said McCray hoarsely, dirough lips that were parched and cracked, sitting up and trying the muscles of the body. It ached. He was boneweary. "Give me a hand getting out of this suit, will you?" It was not easy to be a mind in a body again, McCray discovered. Time had stopped for him. He had been soaring the star-lanes in his released mind for hours; but while his mind had been liberated, his body, back on Hatcher's "planet," had continued its slow metabolism, its steady devouring of its tissues, its inevitable progress toward death. When he had returned to it he found its pulse erratic and its breathing ragged. A grinding knot of hunger seethed in its stomach. Its muscles ached. Whatever might become of his mind, it was clear that his body would die if it were left unfed and uncared-for much longer. So he had brought it back to the Jodrell Bank  He stood up and avoided Chris's questions. "Let me get something to eat, and then get cleaned up a little." (He had discovered that his body stank.) "Then I'll tell you everything you want to know -- you and the captain, and anybody else who wants tp listen. And we'll have to send a dispatch to Earth, too, because this is important... But, please, I only want to tell it once." Because -- he did not say -- I may not have time to tell it again. For those cold and murderous presences in the clustered inner suns had reached out as casually as a bear flicking a salmon out of a run and snatched the unknown woman from Hatcher's planet. They could reach anywhere in the galaxy their thoughts roamed. They might easily follow him here. I t was good to be human again, and McCray howled with pain and joy as the icy needle-spray of the showers cleansed his body. He devoured the enormous plates of steak and potatoes the ship's galley shoved before him, and drank chilled milk and steaming black coffee in alternate pint mugs. McCray let the ship's surgeon look him over, and laughed at the expression in the man's eyes. "I know I'm a little wobbly," he said. "It doesn't matter, Doc. You can put me in the sickbay as long as you like, as soon as I've talked to the captain. I won't mind a bit. You see, I won't be there -- " and he laughed louder, and would not explain. An hour later, with food in his belly and something from the surgeon's hypospray in his bloodstream to clear his brain, he was in the captain's cabin, trying to spell out in words that made sense the incredible story of (he discovered) eight days since he had been abducted from the ship. Looking at the ship's officers, good friends, companions on a dozen planetside leaves, McCray started to speak, stumbled and was for a moment without words. It was too incredible to tell. How could he make them understand? They would have to understand. Insane or not, the insane facts had to be explained to them. However queerly they might stare, they were intelligent men. They would resist but ultimately they would see. He settled his problem by telling them baldly and plainly, without looking at their faces and without waiting for their questions, everything that had happened. He told them about Hatcher and about the room in which he had come to. He told them about the pinkish light that showed only what he concentrated on -- and explained it to them, as he had not understood it at first; about Hatcher's people, and how their entire .sense-world was built up of what humans called E.S.P., the "light" being only the focusing of thought, which sees no material objects that it is not fixed on. He told them of the woman from the other ship and the cruel, surgical touch on his brain that had opened a universe to him. He promised that that universe would open for them as well. He told them of the deadly, unknowable danger to Hatcher's people -- and to themselves -- that lay at the galaxy's core. He told them how the woman had disappeared, and told them she was dead -- at the hands of the Old Ones from the Central Masses -- a blessing to her, McCray explained, and a blessing to all of them; for although her mind would yield some of its secrets even in death, if she were alive it would be their guide, and the Old Ones would be upon them. He did not wait for them to react. He turned to the ship's surgeon. "Doc, I'm all yours now, body and soul... cancel that. Just body!" And he left them, to swim once more in space. I n so short a time McCray had come to think of this as life, and a sort of interregnum. He swept up and out, glancing back only to see the ship's surgeon leaping forward to catch his unconscious body as it fell and then he was in space between the stars once more. Here, 'twixt Sol and Betelgeuse, space was clear, hard and cold, no diffuse gas cloud, no new, growing suns He "looked" toward Hatcher's world, but hesitated and considered. First or last, he would have to look once more upon the inimical presences that had peered out at him from the Central Masses. It might as well be now. His perceptions alert, he plunged toward the heart of the galaxy Thought speeds where light plods. The mind of Herrell McCray covered light-millenia in a moment. It skipped the drifty void between spiral arms, threaded dust clouds, entered the compact central galactic sphere to which our Earth's sector of the galaxy is only a remote and unimportant appendage. Here a great globular cluster of suns massed around a common center of gravity. McCray shrank himself to the perspective of a human body and stared in wonder. Mankind's Sol lies in a tenuous, stretched-out arm, thinly populated by stellar standards: if Earth had circled one of these dense-clustered suns, what a different picture of the sky would have greeted the early shepherds! Where Man's Earthbound eyes are fortunate to count a thousand stars in a winter sky, here were tens of thousands, bright enough to be a Sirius or a Capella at the bottom of a sink of atmosphere like Earth's whirling close to each other, so that star greets star over distances that are hardlv more than planetary. ol's nearest neighbor star is four light-years away. No single sun in this dense, gyrating central mass was as much as one light-year from its fellows. Here were suns that had been blazing with mature, steady light when Sol was a mere contracting mass of hydrogen -- whose planets had cooled and spawned life before Earth's hollows cupped the first scalding droplets that were the beginnings of seas. On these ancient worlds life existed. McCray had not understood all of what Hatcher had tried to cbmmunicate to him, but he had caught the terror in Hatcher's thoughts. Hatcher's people had fled from these ancients many millenia before -- fled and hidden in the heart of the Orion gas cloud, their world and all. Yet even there they were not safe. They knew that in time the Old Ones would find them. And it was this fear that had led them to kidnap humans, seeking allies in the war that could not forever be deferred. Hatcher's people were creatures-ef thought. Man was the wielder of physical forces -- "paranormal" to Hatcher, as teleportation and mindseeing were "paranormal" to McCray. The Old Ones had mastered both. McCray paused at the fringe of the cluster, waiting for the touch of contemptuous hate. It came and he recoiled a thousand light-years before he could stop. To battle the Old Ones would be no easy match -- yet time might work for the human race. Already they controlled the electromagnetic spectrum, and hydrogen fusion could exert the force of suns. With Hatcher's help -- and his own -- Man would free his mind as well; and perhaps the Old Ones would find themselves against an opponent as mighty as themselves. He drew back from the Central Masses, no longer afraid, and swept out to see Hatcher's planet It was gone. I n the great gas cloud the tunneling blue suns swept up their graze of hydrogen, untroubled by planets. Themselves too young to have solid satellites, Hatcher's adopted world removed again, they were alone. Gone! It was for a moment, a panicky thought. McCray realized what they had done. Hatcher's greatest hope had been to find another race to stand between his people and the Old Ones. And they had found it! Now Hatcher's world could hide again and wait until the battle had been fought for them. With a face light-years across, with a brain made up of patterns in the ether, McCray grinned wryly. "Maybe they made, the right choice, he thought,considering. "Maybe they'd only be in the way when the showdown comes." And he sought out Jodrell Bank and his body once more, preparing to return to being human... and to teach his fellow-humans to be gods. Coming in our next issue -- A Retief novelette by Keith Laumer by J. G. Ballard The pulse-stirring climax of by Robert A. Heinlein -- and many more! XX XX  II  X  X X Xi  IF  Short Story Illustrated by Jackson I t Cheviot Sherwood evet haa believed in miracles, he believed in them no longer. He had no illusions now He knew exactlv what he faced His life would come to an end on this uninhabited backwoods planet and there'd be none to mourn him. none to know. Not, he thought that there would be any mourners, under any circumstance. Although there were those who would be glad to see him. who would come running if they knew where he might be found. These were people, very definitely, that Sherwood had no desire to see His great, one might say his overwhelming. desire not to see them The castaway was a wanted man -- but he didn't knnv how badly he was wanted! could account in part for his present situation, since he had taken off from the last planet of record without filing flight plans and lacking clearance Since no one knew where he might have headed and since his radio was junk, there was no likelihood at all that anyone would find him -- even if they looked, which would be a matter of some doubt. Probably the most that anyone would do would be to send out messages to other planets to place authorities od the alert for him. And since his spaceship, for the lack of a certain valve for which he had no replacement, was not going anywhere, he was stuck here on this planet. I If that had been all there had been to it, it might not have been # bad. But there was a final irony that under other circumstances (if it had been happening to someone else, let's say), would have kept Sherwood in stitches of forthright merriment for hours on end at the very thought of it. But since he was the one involved, there was no merriment. For now, when he could gain no benefit, he was potentially rich beyond even his own most greedy and most lurid dreams. On the ridge above the camp he'd set up beside his crippled spaceship lay a strip of clay-cemented conglomerate that fairly reeked with diamonds. They lay scattered on the hillside, washed out by the weather; they were mixed liberally in the gravel of the tiny stream that wended through the valley. They could be picked up by the basket. They were of high quality; there were several, the size of human skulls, that probably were priceless. Sherwood was of a hardy, rough and tumble breed. Once he became convinced of his situation he made the best of it. He made his camp into a home and laid in supplies -- digging roots, gathering nuts, drying fish and making pemmican. If he was to be cast in the role of a Robinson Crusoe, he proposed to be at least comfortable well fed. In his spare time he gathered diamonds. dumping them in a pile outside his shack And in the idle atternoons or the long evenings, he sat beside his campfire and sorted them out -- washing them free of clinging dirt and grading them according best of them he put into a sack, designed for easy grabbing if the time should ever come when he might depart the planet. Not that he had any hope this would come about. Even so, he was a man who planned against contingencies. He always tried to have some sort of loophole. Had this not been the case, his career would have ended long before, at any one of a dozen times or places. That it apparently had come to an end now could be attributed to a certain lack df foresight in not carrying a full complement of spare parts. Although perhaps this was understandable, since never before in the history of space flight had that particular valve which now spelled out Sherwood's doom ever misbehaved. Perhaps it was well for him that he was not an introspective man. If he had been given to much searching thought, he might have found himself living with his past, and there were places in his past that were faf from pretty. He was lucky in many other ways, of course. The planet was not a bad one, a sort of New England planet with a rocky, tumbled terrain, forested by scrubby trees and distinctly terrestrial. He might just as easily have been marooned upon a jungle planet or one of the icy planets or any of another dozen different kinds that were not tolerant of life. So he settled in and made the best of it and didn't even bother to count off the days. For he knew what he was in for. He counted on no miracle. T he miracle he had not counted on came late one afternoon as he sat, cross-legged, sorting out his latest haul of priceless diamonds. The great black ship came in from the east across the rolling hills. It whistled down across the ridges and settled to the ground a short distance from Sherwood's crippled ship and his patched-together shack. It was no patrol vessel, although in his position, Sherwood would have welcomed even one of these. It was a kmd of ship he'd never seen before. It was globular and black and it had no identifying marks on it. He leaped to his feet and ran toward the ship. He waved his arms in welcome and whooped with his delight. He stopped a hundred feet away when he felt the first whiff of the heat that had been picked up by the vessel's hull in its plunge through atmosphere. "Hey, in there!" he yelled. And the Ship spoke to him. "You need not yell," it told him. "I can hear you very well." ' who are you?" asked Sherwood. "I am the Ship," the voice told him. "Quit fooling around," yelled Sherwood, "and tell me who you are." For the sort of answer it had given was foolishness. Of course it was the ship. It was someone in the ship, talking to him through a speaker in the hull. "I have told you," said the Ship. "I am the Ship." "But there is someone speaking to me." "The ship is speaking to you." "All right, then," said Sherwood. "If you want it that way, it's okay with me. Can you take me out of here? My radio is broken and my ship disabled." "Perhaps I can," said the Ship. "Tell me who you are." Sherwood hesitated for a moment, and then he told who he was, quite truthfully. For it suddenly had occurred to him that this ship was as much an outlaw as he was himself. It had no markings and all ships must have markings. "You say you left your last port without proper clearance?" . "Yes," said Sherwood. "There were certain circumstances." "And no one knows where you are? No one's looking for you?" "How could they?" Sherwood asked. "Where do you want to go?" "Just anywhere," said Sherwood. "I have no preference." F or even if they should land him somewhere where he had no wish to be, he still would have a running chance. On this planet he had no chance at all. "All right," said the ship. "You can come aboard." A hatch came open in the hull and a ladder began running out. "Just a second," Sherwood shouted. "I'll be right there." He sprinted to the shack and grabbed his sack of the finest diamonds, then legged it for the ship. He got there almost as soon as the ladder touched the ground. The hull still was crackling with warmth, but Sherwood swarmed up the ladder, paying no attention. He was set for life, he thought. Unless -- And then the thought struck him that they might take the diamonds from him. They could pretend it was payment for his passage. Or they could simply take them without an excuse of any sort at all. But it was too late now He was almost in the hatch. To drop the sack of diamonds now would do no more than arouse suspicion and would gain him nothing. It came of greediness, he thought. He did not need this many diamonds. Just a half dozen of the finest dropped into his pockets would have been enough. Enough to buy him another ship so he could return and get a load of them. But he was committed now. There was nothing he could do except to see it through. He reached the hatch and tumbled through it. There was no one waiting. The inner lock stood open and there was no one there. He stopped to stare at the emptiness and behind him the retracting ladder rumbled softly and the hatch hissed to a close. "Hey," he shouted, "where is everyone?" "There is no one here," the voice said, "but me." "All right," said Sherwood. "Where do I go to find you?" "You have found me," said the Ship. "You are standing in me." "You mean..." "I told you," said the Ship. "I said I was the Ship. That is what I am." "But no one..." "You do not understand," said the Ship. "There is no need of anyone. I aip myself. I am intelligent. I am part machine, part human. Rather, perhaps, at one time I was. I have thought, in recent years, the two of us have merged so we're neither human nor machine, but something new entirely." "You're kidding me," said Sherwood, beginning to get frightened. "There can't be such a thing." "Consider," said the Ship, "a certain human who had worked for years to build me and who, as he finished me, found death was closing in..." "Let me out!" yelled Sherwood. "Let me out of herel I don't want to be rescued. I don't want..." "I'm afraid, Mr. Sherwood, it is rather late for that. We're already out in space." "Out in space! We can't be! It isn't possible!" "Of course it is," the Ship told him. "You expected thrust. There was no thrust. We simply lifted." # #'j'o ship," insisted Sherwood, "can get off a planet... " "You're thinking, Mr. Sherwood, of the ships built by human hands. Not of a living ship. Not of an intelligent machine. Not of what becomes possible with the merging of a man and a machine."  "You mean you built yourself?" "Of course not. Not to start with. I was built by human hands to start with. But I've redesigned myself and rebuilt myself, not once, but many times. I knew my capabilities. I knew my dreams and wishes. I made myself the kind of thing I was capable of being -- not the halfway, makeshift thing that was the best the human race could do." "The man you spoke of," Sherwood said. "The one who was about to die..." "He is part of me," said the Ship. "If you must think of him as a separate entity, he, then, is talking to you. For when I say T, I mean both of us, for we've become as one." "I don't get it," Sherwood told the Ship, feeling the panic coming back again. "He built me, long ago, as a ship which would respond, not to the pushing of a lever or the pressing of a button, but to the mental commands of the man who drove me. I was to become, in effect, an extension of that man. There was a helmet that the man would wear and he'd think into the helmet." "I understand," said Sherwood. "He'd think into the helmet and I was so programmed that I'd obey his thoughts. I became, in effect, a man, and the man became in effect the ship he operated." "Nice deal," Sherwood said enthusiastically, never being one upon whom the niceties of certain advantages were ever lost. "He finished me and he was about to die and it was a pity that such a one should die -- one who had worked so hard to do what he had done. Who'd given up so much. 'Yf'sver had seen space. Who had gone nowhere." "No," said Sherwood, in revulsion, knowing what was coming. "No, he'd not done that." "It was a kindness," said the ship. "It was what he wanted. He managed it himself. He simply gave up his body. His body was a worthless hulk that yas about to die. The modifications to accommodate a human brain rather than a human skull were quite elementary. And he has been happy. We have both of us been happy." Sherwood stood without saying anything. In the silence he was listening for some sound, for any kind of tiny rattle or hum, for anything at all to tell him the ship was operating. But there was no sound and no sense of motion of any sort. "Happy," he said. "Where would you have found happiness? What's the point of all this?" "That," the Ship said solemnly, "is a bit hard to explain." Sherwood stood and thought about it -- the endless voyaging through space without a body -- with all the desires, all the advantages, all the capabilities' of a body gone forever. "There is nothing for you to fear," said the Ship. "You need not concern yourself. We have a cabin for you. Just down the corridor, the first door to your left." "I thank you," Sherwood said, although he was nervous still. If he had had a choice, he told himself, he'd stayed back on the planet. But since he was here, he'd have to make the best of it. And there were, he admitted to himself, certain advantages and certain possibilities that needed further thought. H e went down the corridor and pushed on the door. It opened on the cabin. For a spaceship it looked comfortable enough. A little cramped, of course, but then all cabins were. Space is at a premium on any sort of ship. He went in and placed his sack of diamonds on the bunk that hinged out from the wall. He sat down in the single metal chair that stood beside the bunk. "Are you comfortable, Mr. Sherwood?" "Very comfortable," he said. It was going to be all right, he told himself. A very crazy setup, but it would be all right. Perhaps a little spooky and a bit hard to believe, but probably better, after all, than staying marooned, back there on the planet. For this would not last forever And the planet could have been, most probably would have been, forever. It would take a while to reach another planet, for space was rather sparsely populated in this area. There would be time to think and plan. He might be able to work out something that would be to his great advantage. He leaned back in the chair and stretched out his legs. His brain began to click in a ceaseless scurrying back and forth, nosing from every angle all the possibilities that existed in this setup. It was nice, he thought -- this entire operation. The Ship undoubtedly had figured out some angles for itself which no human yet had thought of. There were a lot of things to do. He'd have to learn the capabilities of the Ship and. give close study to its personality, seeking out its weak points and its strength. Then he'd have to plan his strategy and be careful not to give away his thinking. He must not move until he was entirely ready. There might be many ways to do it. There might be flattery or there might be a business proposition or there might be blackmail. He'd have to think on it and study and follow out the line of action that seemed to be the best He wondered at the Ship's means o t operation. Anti-gravity, perhaps, so far considered as a source of power. He got up from the chair and paced, three paces across the room Or a fusion chamber. Or perhaps some method which had not been and back, restlessly pondering odds. Yes, he thought, It would be a nice kind of ship to have. More than likely there was nothing in all of space that could touch it in speed and maneuverability. Nothing that could overhaul it should he ever have to run. It could apparently set down anywhere. It probably selfrepairing, for the Ship had spoken of redesigning and of rebuilding itself. With the memory of his recent situation still fresh inside his mind, this was comforting. ' There must be a way to get the Ship, he told himself. There had to be a way to get it. It was something that he needed. He could buy another ship, of course; with the diamonds in the sacking he could buy a fleet of ships. But this was the one he wanted. M aybe it had been pure luck this Ship had picked him up. For any other legal ship would probably turn him over to the authorities at its next port of call, but this Ship didn't seem to mind who he was or what his record might be. Any other ship that was not entirely legal would have grabbed off, not only the diamonds that he had but his discovery of the diamond field. But this particular Ship had no concern with diamonds. What a setup, he thought. A human brain and a spaceship tied together, so closely tied together that their identities had merged. He shivered at the thought of it, for it was a gruesome thing. Although perhaps it had not meant too much to that old man who was about to die. He had traded an aged and death-marked body for many years of life. Perhaps life as a part of a space-traveling machine was better than no life at all. How many years, he wondered, had it been since that old man had translated himself into something else than human? A hundred? Five hundred? Perhaps even more than that. In those years where had he been and what might he have seen? And, most pertinent of all, what thoughts had run through and congealed and formed within his mind? What was life like for him? Not a human sort of life, of course, not a human viewpoint, but something else entirely. Sherwood tried to imagine what it might be like, but gave up in dismay. It would necessarily be a negation of everything he lived for -- all the sensual pleasure, all the dreams of gain and glory, all the neat behavior patterns he had set up for himself, all his self-made rules of conduct and of conscience. A miracle, he thought. As a matter of fact, there'd been two miracles. The first had been when he had been able to set his ship down without a crackup when the valve had failed. He had come in close above the planet's surface to find a place to land -- and suddenly the valve went out and the engine failed and there he'd been, plunging down above the rough terrain. Then suddenly he had glimpsed a place where a landing might be just barely possible and had fought the controls madly to hit that certain spot and finally had hit it -- alive. It had been a miracle that he had made the landing; and the coming of the Ship to rescue him had been the second miracle. The bunk dropped down flat against the wall and his sack of diamonds was dumped onto the floor "Hey, what goes on?" yelled Sherwood. Then he wished he had not yelled, for it was quite clear exactly what had happened. The support that held the bunk had not been snapped properly into place and had given way, letting down the bunk. "Something wrong, Mr. Sherwood?" asked the Ship. "No, not a thing," said Sherwood. "My bunk fell down. I guess it startled me." He bent down to pick up the diamonds. As he did, the chair quietly and efficiently slid back against the wall, folded itself up and slid into a slight depression that exactly fitted it. Squatted to pick up the diamonds, Sherwood watched the chair in horrified fascination, then swiftly spun around. The bunk no longer hung against the wall, also had fitted itself into another niche. Cold fear speared into Sherwood. He rose swiftly to his feet, turning like a man at bay. He stood in a bare cubicle. With both the bunk and chair retracted, he stood within four bare walls. He sprang toward the door and there wasn't any door. There was only wall. He staggered back into the center of the cubicle and spun around to view each wall in turn. There was no door in any of the walls. The metal went up from floor to ceiling without a single break. The walls began to move, closing in on him, sliding in, retracting. H e watched, incredulous, frozen, thinking that perhaps he'd imagined the moving of the walls. But it was not imagination. Slowly, inexorably, the walls were closing in. Had he put out his arms, he could have touched them on either side of him. "Ship!" he said, fighting to keep his voice calm. "Yes, Mr. Sherwood." "You are malfunctioning. The walls are closing in." "No," said the Ship. "No malfunction, I assure you. A very proper function. My brain grows tired and feeble. It is not the body only -- the brain also has its limits. I suspected that it might, but I could not know. There was a chance, of course, that separated from the poison of a body, it might live in its bath of nutrients forever." "Nof" rasped Sherwood, his breath strangling in his throat. "No, not me!" "Who else?" asked the Ship. "I have searched for years and you are the first who fitted." "Fitted!" Sherwood screamed. "Why, of course," the Ship said calmly, happily. "A man who would not be missed. No one knowing where you were. No one hunting for you. No one who will miss you. I had hunted for someone like you and had despaired of finding one. For I am humane. I would cause no one grief or sadness." The walls kept closing in. The Ship seemed to sigh in metallic contentment. "Believe me, Mr. Sherwood," it said, "finding you was a very mirIn The February Galaxy -- by Fritz Leiber x x x X  X  Xby Avram Davidson Kris Neville Frederik Pohl xxX' XX XXXi Willy Ley jj -- and many more stories and features. February g Galaxy is still on sale -- get your copy today! J c X t IF  Short Story He heard children's voices, but there couldn't be any children -- not in that terrible place! A man said to the landlady over a soft-boiled egg and a slice of toast. "Right under my window." He leaned forward. "You know how children talk to themselves?" "Was it the same voice you heard the first two nights?" Mrs. Tilton asked. "I'm not sure now about the first night. Might have been another voice that first night." "And now it was a child?" "Yes." . Mrs. Tilton rose to get the coffee. "Are you quite sure?" "You don't think I'm imagining?" "We have no children," she said. "A neighbor's, no doubt." "There isn't a child in the whole village, Mr. Coat." "That's what puzzles me. Don't you think we ought to report it?" "I'll get your coffee," she said, and went into the kitchen. "I didn't actually see the child," he called to her. "But I'm sure I heard the voice." The woman brought the cup of coffee; she had poured it in the kitchen. The first two mornings, he remembered, she had set the coffee pot on the table. "Aren't you having any?" he asked. "I had mine, thank you. Will you want anything else?" He could see past her into the kitchen -- the corner of a large woodburning stove and a row of brass pots. The floor was flagstoned and a hand pump stood over a sink. "Do you really grow your own strawberries?" he asked. "Yes. Would you like some?" "Very much." Mrs. Tilton went to get the berries. She had forgotten to serve cream with the coffee. The coffee had a bitter taste and a faint smell of iodine. But he was not used to natural coffee. And without cream. He took another sip and slowly stretched his stiff legs. In the window he saw lilac bushes in bloom. "Picked this morning," Mrs. Tilton said, setting a bowl of strawberries before him. "Oh, thank you." He sniffed at the berries. "They smell of earth," he said, smiling at her. "You might like a walk after breakfast," Mrs. Tilton suggested. "Then you can have a restful nap at noon." "Good idea," he said. "Excuse me, but the coffee seems bitter." Mrs. Tilton looked at the old man as if she did not understand. "I'm afraid I'm a nuisance," he apologized, "but I take cream with my coffee." "I'm sorry, I forgot." She brought a small cream pitcher. T he old man turned the pitcher in his hand. It was lopsided and made of inferior clay "Do you make your own pottery, too?" "Such as it is." "Charming." He set down the pitcher and leaned back with a sigh. "You know. I pretended I did not want a rest, but l could hardly wait to see the country again." "You weren't born in the city?" "I was born in a village no larger than this. Of course it's all gone now, swallowed up by the city But in those davs it was an hour's heliride from the city. I remember a thing or two " Mrs. Tilton watched him drink the coffee "Not many people left who remember those days," he said. "For instance, did you know that unadjustables -- they called them criminals then -- were actually electrocuted? Strapped down to a horrible chair -- " "Don't you want the strawberries, Mr. Coat?" He looked down at the strawberries in the bowl. "Just imagine -- " but he forgot what he had wanted to say. The woman went into the kitchen. He had just finished drinking the coffee when he herd the child's voice in the lane outside the window. The same voice. He crossed to the window and looked out. The lane was empty. "Mrs. Tilton!" He heard no answer. He went into the kitchen. The door to the garden stood open. He saw her working in a vegetable patch. "Pst... pst!" She looked up. "Did you see the child?" he called. "It must have turned into the garden." Mrs. Tilton straightened herself, holding her back with both hands. "The child?" "The voice. I just heard it again." "I'll be with you in a moment, Mr. Coat." He looked round the kitchen -- the antique flagstones, the brass pots, the stove, the hand pump. There was only one anachronism: on the wall by the door, stuck behind a cluster of radishes, was a World Union Telegram. Out in the vegetable patch, he saw Mrs. Tilton was looking about for something. On an impulse he took down the telegram, and read: He stuck the telegram behind the radishes and looked out the door. Mrs. Tilton was coming with a basket on her arm. "You heard the child again, Mr. Coat?" "Perhaps... I was mistaken." "Strange, I saw nobody." She put the basket on the kitchen table; it was filled with peas. "Did you have enough coffee?" He nodded. "Aren't you feeling well?" "I... am fine. Yes." The executioner looked as if she could not make up her mind about him. Then she smiled. She brought out a wooden bowl, and sat down at the table to shell the peas. "Why don't you take your walk now? You'll enjoy our little market place." "Yes." Such a nice day, he thought, shuffling to the window. Spring. H e had enjoyed the market yesterday until he had noticed that there were no children about. No children at all. Only adult primitives and a few well-trained functionaries like Mrs. Tilton. In the sky in the window he saw a rocket cutting a thin line as it left the atmosphere. "I'll have your bed ready for your noon nap," she said. He turned from the window. "Noon?" "You'll want a nice restful nap then." He had imagined the poisoned coffee would work faster. His heart beating, he said, "Those are peas, aren't they?" She nodded. Her hands were busy shelling. "I hung your cane on the coat rack," she said. "If you don't mind, Mrs. Tilton, I'd rather not go out today. I'd very much like to try shelling peas for you." "Why, of course. Pull up that chair, why don't you?" Sitting down, he reached his trembling hands into the basket and came up with a handful of the green wonders. Mrs. Tilton moved the basket nearer him. "After a while I'll go up to my room," he promised. "I feel a little tired already." "Certainly." He split a shell and slid his thumb under the peas. They rolled into his hand. He counted nine. He dropped them in the bowl, then put one in his mouth and chewed. It had a sweet taste. "Thank you, Mrs. Tilton." "Not at all, Mr. Coat." IF  Feature IN I f you read the above title fast you'll get the same impression as you will if you read this article fast. So take your time -- or set it aside until you have the time. We have blithely set ourselves the task of fumbling through the liver -- and lights -- of the laser , hoping to bring you a simple explanation of one of those scientific breakthroughs that ought to make you glad, and a little awed, to share history with. But like sex and solid-state functions, laser theory seems to drift from time to time into philosophy or fiction Yet the device is so simple. so fascinating and so extremely potent that it will pay to know a little, at least, about it when it's talked about. And, brother, it will be talked abouf a whole lot. To begin with, Junior, laser is not the comparative form of lazy. It is the acronym for Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation. The recipe for a laser is: Take a cylindrical ruby rod. Mix in a pinch (about l#th of I  ) of chromium atoms, making sure that that's absolutely all the impurity there is. Grind both ends of the cylinder optically flat. Silver one end thoroughly. Silver the other end not thoroughly. Next take an optical flash tube, stretch it out, bend it into a spiral and insert the ruby rod into the coil so formed. Now activate the flash tube at the correct frequency. Coherent light emerges from the half-silvered end of the ruby. And there's your laser. If that doesn't suit your palate, try other solids, such as the so-called transition metals (elements with an incomplete inner shell of electrons), or the "rare-earth" elements (called lanthanides), or the actinides (elements # through #) But if your taste is a little more sophisticated, yon can run up something tasty in liquids and even gases. Now. what is coherent light? And why bother? Also, as the ribald Indian said to the mermaid: How? Coherent light is electromagnetic radiation within the optical spectrum, emerging from its source at a single frequency and in a sinusoidal wave-pattern, like radio waves. Most light is non-coherent, or a jumble of many frequencies. If you've ever seen these separated and put down in order by a spectroscope, you know how very many there are. The light produced by laser is in terms of color absolutely pure. It forms a beam with so little dispersion that a beam one tenth of a mil wide at the source would lay a disc of light only # miles wide on the moon. Yet even that, in terms of this new science, is strictly model T. W hy bother? First of all, the device produces light of truly fabulous intensity. As every schoolboy knows as soon as you tell him, sunlight produces about one-tenth of a watt per square centimeter. A on the same square centimeter and not breathe hard. It is, in other words, a source of high temperatures, almost perfectly directional, easily controlled and (as such things go) inexpensive. Just a moment's reflection (especially for you, or you wouldn't be reading it here) will generate more wild and wonderful applications than most pro authors would dare to perpetrate. In research and industry, how many uses can be found for a needle-beam of heat that can weld a precision joint, puncture a diamond, maintain a microcrucible at high temperatures to study chemistry in an area it has hardly been examined in before? Instantly din, exactly directional. Or -- think a little bigger, and put Buck Rogers' zap-gun back in the funny papers where it belongs. For here is the death ray, the recoilless "searing beam of raw naked energy" we used to read about in our fuzzedged pulp-blurred space opera. Here -- really here -- is a way#o knock a hole as big as your head in a tank at # yards -- -a weapon that ignores windage because it's a beam, not a missile-chucker, and for the same reason need not be aimed with any consideration for trajectory. You don't compute and adjust sights. You just shoot it, like a flashlight. And this is only the beginning. Practical thermonuclear energy awaits temperatures high enough, controllable enough. Well? And one other whole new area: communications -- which covers a great deal more than speech, pictures, facsimile; it means also remote control in all its countless permutations. For with a laser beam we have, as reported above, electromagnetic radiation of a single frequency which varies in a regular sinusoidal pattern -- like a radio carrier frequency. There is no theoretical reason why a signal should not be impressed upon such a carrier, by modifying its amplitude (AM) after it's generated. This means, at first glance, two things: communications on such a tight beam that eavesdropping is virtually impossible; and communications over a beam with so little dispersal that it can be thrown of miles, to reach ships and stations in space. And with this we'll applications to your imagination, and go on to how this simple-minded gadget makes this all happen. T 'o understand it you'll have to make yet another change in your concept of the atom, which, you'll recall, appears as a billard ball glued to a stick in chemical models of molecules: or as a sort of solar system, electrons around a nucleus, when they're talking nuclear physics. There's nothing wrong with these concepts as long as they work, and they have worked well. According to the theory which fits the facts for laser, electrons can travel in orbits far removed from the nucleus, or closer in. When an electron falls from a high energy state (the far-out orbit) to a lower state it gives off the energy difference in the form of light. Conversely, when it leaves a lower orbit for a higher (i.e., goes from a lowerenergy state to a higher-energy state) it absorbs light. the calculation of energy difference between levels to a simple formula ( Ehv , in case you wondered, where E is the quantum of energy, v the frequency of radiation, and h is that constant of proportionality known as Planck's Constant.) The only reason for bringing this up is that frequency, the only variable in the equation, is what dictates whether or not electrons can be shifted from one level to another. Therefore the frequency of the pulses in the helical flash tube must be exact and precise in terms of the particular atoms of which the laser is made. Now let's make another model, not of atoms specifically, but of this laser theory in action. We'll borrow from the local dog kennels a ladder, and set it up against the living room wall. Now if you'll look closely you'll see that the bottom rung of the ladder is populated by fleas. We'll call them atoms at Energy Level One, or E-l. Now if you can persuade these fleas to' jump to the second rung, E-# -- say by flashing pictures of a fat chihuahua (at the right frequency, of course) -- they will absorb light energy as they go up. They won't stay on E-# very long, and when they drop back, they'll release energy. Now if you can pump the succulent image efficiently enough, you'll get a population inversion. There will be more fleas on E-# than on E-l. This would give you a gain in emitted energy as they dropped back again. In practice, it has been found that the E-#-to-ground pumping requires more energy in the pump than you can get out of the emission. However, with the right frequency, at the right intensity, the population can get so excited that it will jump clear to E-# and then drop back to E-#. At this level you start to show a profit, but good. So with a new slide, say a particularly fat old collie substituting for the chihuahua, you very readily get population inversion between E-# and E-#, and you have a bunch of wildly excited fleas as well, which is the excitement mentioned in the s e -- stimulated emission -- of laser. The profit is the a, or amplification. N ow return the ladder to the kennels. Keep the fleas or let them go; it's up to you. And let's take up the ruby laser again. You recall that in the pure ruby shaft, a few chromium atoms exist as an impurity. When light at the right frequency is pumped in by the spiral coil, these chromium atoms are driven to higher energy levels, from which they spontaneously fall back, emitting radiation which in turn excites more chromium atoms. This goes on while more and more light goes bashing around inside the rod. Both ends are mirrors, and the sides permit little of it to escape, so the only way out for the light is for that portion of it which bounces off the fully silvered end and is projected at the partly silvered end, where it emerges. Now you can see why the beam is so little dispersed, so perfectly aligned. Ai to why it is so pure -- it has to be, having been generated from the same energy level of the same electronactivity. That is, at the same frequency. The flash-tube that started all this was non-coherent -- rthat is, its light was the usual mess of frequencies emitted by . most of our familiar light-seurces. The laser beam is coherent. We hope we are by now, and you too. Experiments are rapidly going forward in both liquid and gaseous lasers. If anyone has succeeded with the former, we haven't heard about it yet. As to the later, it was a helium-neon laser which yielded the # He was excited by radio-frequency energy and transferred its excitement to the neon. Pumping is considerably easier than for solid lasers. In Case You Hadn't Noticed --  -- this issue of If has some special new features! The color is new. Something less obvious is the new type format -- a more compact style which actually gives you the equivalent of an extra fulllength novelette in every issue -- about as much as adding about # pages to our former issues. More than ever, If is your biggest bargain in science fiction today! IF  Serial Illustrated by Finlay A radiation storm between planets is no joke -- but it's nothing compared to the storm that hovers constantly over the head of my brother Clarkl My name is Podkayne Fries -- rhymes with "breeze" -- and don't call me Martian. I am a Marswoman; and they are something else entirely. ( Not that you will ever hear me saying anything against the Old Ones -- after all Vm named after one of them.) My brother Clark and I, handsomely escorted by our Uncle Tom , are on our way to Venus. Since l am going to be a ship's captain when  grow up ( don't laugh ; on Mars we don't have these silly notions about where woman's place is), you might say that this is the crowning experience of my life -- so far, anyway -- and you would be right. Except for a few old biddies who think Marsmen are savages, everybody is wonderful and the trip itself is positively heaven. As for the old biddies . I can fix them.  already have fixed them --  told Clark about them , and that's enough.  don't know what he'll do -- but I know they'll wish he hadn't... be cause although he's my brother and l love him ,  guess Clark is also a powerful little imp. You've heard of Earth's Mafia? The way we look at it, the Mafia have heard of Clark -- thafs why they stayed on Earth. M r. Sawonavong told me that we are likely to have a radiation storm almost any time now and that we'll have an emergency drill today to practice for it. The solar weather station on Mercury reports that "flare" weather is shaping up and has warned all ships in space and all manned satellites to be ready for it. The flares are expected to continue for about -- Wups! The emergency alarm caught me in the middle of a sentence. We've had our drill and I think the captain has all the passengers properly scared now. Some ignored the alarm, or tried to. whereupon crewmen in heavy armor fetched them. Clark got fetched. He was the very last they tracked down... and Captain Darling gave him a public scolding that was a work of art. and finished by warning Clark that if he failed to be the first passenger to reach shelter the next time the alarm sounded, Clark could expect to spend the rest of the trip in the shelter, twenty-four hours of the day, instead of having free run of passenger country. Clark took it with his usual wooden face, but I think it hit home, especially the threat to confine him. Tm sure the speech impressed the other passengers. It was the sort that raises blisters at twenty paces. Perhaps the captain intended it mostly for their benefit. Then the captain changed his tone to that of a patient teacher and explained in simple words what we could expect, why it was necessary so to reach shelter at once even if one were taking a bath, why we would be perfectly safe if we did. The solar flares trigger radiation, he told us, quite ordinary radiation, much like X-rays ("and other sorts," I mentally added), the sort of radiation which is found in space at all times. But the intensity reaches levels from a thousand to ten thousand times as high as "normal" space radiation -- And, since we are already inside the orbit of Earth, this is bad medicine indeed; it would kill an unprotected man about as quickly as shooting him through the head. Then he explained why we would not require a thousand to ten thousand times as much shielding in order to be safe. It's the cascade principle. The outer hull stops over # per cent of any radiation; then comes the "cofferdam" (cargo holds and water tanks) which absorbs some more; then comes the inner hull which is actually the floor of the the cylinder which is first-class passenger country. This much shielding is plenty for all normal conditions. The radiation level in our staterooms is lower than it is at home, quite a lot lower than it is most places on Earth, especially in the mountains. (I'm looking forward to seeing real mountains. Scary!) Then one day comes a really bad storm on the Sun and the radiation level jumps suddenly to # times normal -- and you could get and wake up dying. N o trouble. The emergency shelter is at the center of the ship, four shells farther in, each of which stops more than # per cent of what hits it. Like this: # # (after the first inner shell, the floor or first-class passenger country.) # (after the second inner shell) # (third) I (fourth -- and you're inside the shelter) But actually the shielding is better than that and it is safer to be in the ship's shelter during a bad solar storm than it is to be in Marsopolis. The only trouble -- and no small matter -- is that the shelter space is the geometrical care of he ship, just abaft the control room and not a whole lot bigger. Passengers and crew are stacked into it about as intimately as puppies in a basket. My billet is a shelf space half a meter wide, half a meter deep and just a trifle longer than I am, with other females brushing my elbows on each side of me. I am not a claustrophobe, but a coffin would be roomier. ' Rations are canned ones, kept there against emergencies; sanitary facilities can only be described as "dreadful." I hope this storm is only a solar squall and is followed by good weather on the Sun. To finish the trip to Venus in the shelter would turn a wonderful experience into a nightmare. The captain finished by saying, "We will probably have five to ten minutes warning from Hermes Station. But don't take five minutes getting here. The instant the alarm sounds head for the shelter at once as fast as possible. If you are not dressed, be sure you have clothes ready to grab -- and dress wheit you get here. If you stop to worry about anything, it may kill you. "Crewmen will search all passenger spaces the moment the alarm sounds, and each one is ordered to use force to send to shelter any passenger who fails to move fast. He won't argue with you. He'll hit you, kick you, drag you -- and I'll back him up. "One last word. Some of you have not been wearing your personal radiation meters. The law permits me to levy a stiff fine for such failure. Ordinarily I overlook such technical offenses -- it's your health, not mine. But, during this emergency, this regulation will be enforced. Fresh personal meters are now being passed out to each of you; old ones will be turned over to the surgeon, examined and exposures entered in your records." He gave the "all clear" order then and we all went back down to passenger country, sweaty and mussed. At least I was. I was just washing my face when the alarm sounded again -- and I swarmed up those four decks like a frightened cat. But I was only a close second. Clark passed me on the way. I t was just another dill. This time all passengers were in the shelter within four minutes. The captain didn't say anything but looked pleased. I've been sleeping raw but I'm going to wear pajamas tonight and all nights until this is over, and leave a robe where I can grab it. Captain Darling is a darling but I think he means exactly what he says -- and I won't play Lady Godiva. There isn't a horse in the whole ship. Neither Mrs. Royer nor Mrs, Garcia were at dinner this evening, although they were both amazingly agile both times the alarm sounded. They weren't in the lounge after dinner; their doors are closed, and I saw the surgeon coming out of Mrs. Garcia's room. I wonder. Surely Clark wouldn't poison them? Or would he? I don't dare ask him because of the remote possibility that he might tell me. I don't want to ask the surgeon, either, because it might attract attention to the Fries family. But I (if there truly is such a thing) long enough to find out what is behind those two closed doors. I hope Clark hasn't let his talents run away with him Oh, I'm as angry at those two as ever because there is just enough truth in the nasty things tjiey said to make it hurt. I am of mixed races and I know that some people think that is bad, even though there is no bias against it on Mars, i do have "convicts" among my ancestors -- but Pve never been ashamed of it. Or not much, although I suppose Pm inclined to dwell more on the highly selected ones. But a "convict" is not always a criminal. Admittedly there was that period in the early history of Mars when the commissars were running things on Earth and Mars was used as a penal colony; everybody knows that and we don't try to hide it. But the vast majority of the transportees were political prisoners -- "counter-revolutionists" -- enemies of the people. Is this bad? In any case there was the much longer period, involving fifty times as many colonists, when every new Marsman was selected as carefully as a bride selects her weddine gown -- and much more scientifically. And finally, there is the current period, since our Revolution and Independence. when we dropped all bars to immigration and welcome anyone who is healthy and has normal intelligence. No, I'm not ashamed of my ancestors or my people, whatever their skin shades or backgrounds; I'm proud of them. It makes me boiling mad to hear anyone sneer at them Why, I'll bet those two couldn't qualify for permanent visa even under our present "open door" policy? Feeble-minded -- But I do hope Clark hasn't done anything too drastic I wouldn't want Clark to have to spend the rest of his life on Titan; I love the little writch. Sort of. vra W e've had the radiation storm. I prefer hives. I don't mean the storm itself; k wasn't too bad. Radiation jumped to about # times normal for where we are now -- about eight-tenths of an astronomical unit from the Sun, say # kilometers in units you can get your teeth in. Mr. Savvonavong says that we would have been all right if the first-class passengers had simply gone up one deck to second-class passenger country... which certainly would have been more comfortable than stuffing all the passengers and crew into that maximum-safety mausoleum at the center of the ship. Second class accommodations are cramped and cheerless, and as for third class I would rather be shipped as freight. But either one would be a picnic compared with spending eighteen hours in the radiation shelter. For the first time I envied the half dozen aliens aboard. They don't take shelter; they simply remain locked in their specially conditioned staterooms as usual. No, they aren't allowed to fry. Those '"-numbered rooms are almost at the center of the ship anyhow, in officers' and crew's country, and they have their own extra layer of shielding, because you can't expect a Martian, for example, to leave the pressure and humidity he requires and join us humans in the shelter. It would be equivalent to dunking him in a bath tub and holding his head under. If he had a head, I mean. Still, I suppose eighteen hours of discomfort is better than being sealed into one small room for the whole trip. A Martian can simply contemplate the subtle difference between zero and nothing for that long or longer and a Venerian just estivates. But not me. I need unrest oftener than I need rest -- or my circuits get tangled and smoke pours out of my ears. But Captain Darling couldn't know ahead of time that the storm would be short and relatively mild. He had to assume the worst and protect his passengers and crew. Eleven minutes would have been long enough for us to be in the shelter, as shown later by instrument records. But that is hindsight and a captain doesn't save his ship and the lives depending on him by hindsight. I am beginning to realize that being captain isn't all glorious adventure and being saluted and wearing four gold stripes on your shoulders. Captain Darling is younger than Daddy and yet he has worry lines that make him look years older. If you missed the first installment --  -- accept a free copy of the November # IF containing it as a gift. See special subscription offer on cover, # issues for #; November # issue." This offer good for a limited time only -- take advantage of it now, and get the November issue Free! Query: Poddy, are you sure you have what it takes to captain an explorer ship? Answer : What did Columbus have that you don't? Aside from Isabella, I mean. Semper toujours, girls! I spent a lot of time before the storm in the control room. Hermes Solar Weather Station doesn't actually warn us when the storm is coming; what they do is fail to warn us that the storm is not coming. That sounds silly but here is how it works: The weathermen at Hermes are perfectly safe, as they are underground on the dark side of Mercury. Their instruments peek cautiously over the horizon in the twilight zone. They gather data about Solar weather, including running telephotos at several wave lengths. But the Sun takes about twentyfive days to turn around, so Hermes Station can't watch all of it all the time. Worse yet, Mercury is going around the Sun in the same direction that the Sun rotates, taking eighty-eight days for one lap. So when the Sun again faces where Mercury was, Mercury has moved on. What this adds up to is that Hermes Station faces exactly the same face of the Sun about every seven weeks. Which is obviously not good enough for weather predicting storms that can gather in a day or two, peak in a few minutes, and kill you dead in seconds or less. So the Solar weather is watched from Earth's Luna and from Venus's satellite station as well, plus some help from Deimos. But there is speed-of-light lag in getting information from these more distant stations back to the main station on Mercury -- maybe fifteen minutes for Luna and as high as a thousand seconds for Deimos... not good when seconds count. But the season of bad storms is only a small part of the Sun's cycle as a variable star -- say about a year out of each six. (Real years, I mean -- Martian years. The Sun's cycle is about eleven of those Earth years that astronomers still insist on using.) That makes things a lot easier. Five years out of six a ship stands very little chance of being hit by a radiation storm. But, during the stormy season, a careful skipper (the only sort who lives to draw a pension) will plan his orbit so that he is in the worst danger zone, say inside the orbit of Earth, only during such time as Mercury lies between him and the Sun, so that Hermes Station can always warn him of coming trouble. That is exactly what Captain Darling has done. The Tricorn waited at Deimos nearly three weeks longer than the guaranteed sight-seeing time on Mars called for by the Triangle Line's advertising, in order to place his approach to Venus so that Hermes Station could observe and warn -- because we are right in the middle of the stormy season. I suppose the Line's business office hates these expensive delays -- Maybe they lose money during the stormy season. But three weeks delay is better than losing a whole shipload of passengers. But when the storm does start, radio communications goes all to pieces at once -- Hermes Station can't warn the ships in the sky. S talemate? Not quite. Hermes Station can see a storm shaping up; they can spot the conditions on the Sun which are almost certainly going to produce a radiation storm very shortly. So they send out a storm warning -- and the Tricorn and other ships hold radiation-shelter drills. Then we wait... one day, two days, or a whole week, and the storm fails to develop, or it builds up and starts shooting nasty stuff in great quantities. All during this time the spaceguard radio station on the dark side of Mercury sends a continuous storm warning, never an instant's break, giving a running account of how the weather looks on fhe Sun. -- and suddenly it stops. Maybe it's a power failure and the standby transmitter will cut in. Maybe it's just a "fade" and the storm hasn't broken yet and transmission will resume with reassuring words. But it may be that the first blast of the storm has hit Mercury with the speed of light, no last-minute warning at all, and the station's eyes are knocked out and its voice is swallowed up in enormously more powerful radiation. The officer-of-the-watch in the control room can't be sure and he dare not take a chance. The instant he loses Hermes Station he slaps a switch that starts a big clock with just a seond hand. When that clock has ticked off a certain number of seconds -- and Hermes Station is still silent -- the general alarm sounds. The exact number of seconds depends on where the ship is, how far from the Sun, how much longer it will take the first blast to reach the ship after it has already hit Hermes Station. Now here is where a captain bites his nails and gets gray hair and earns his high pay... because he has to decide how many seconds to set that clock for. Actually, if the first and worst blast is at the speed of light, he hasn't any warning time at all -- because the break in the radio signal from Hermes and that first wave front from the Sun will reach him at the same instant. Or, if the angle is unfavorable, perhaps it is his own radio reception that has been clobbered, and Hermes Station is still trying to reach him with a last-moment warning. He doesn't know. But he does know that if he sounds the alarm and chases everybody to shelter every time the radio fades for a few seconds, he will get people so worn out and disgusted from his crying "Wolf!" that when the trouble really comes they may not move fast enough. He knows, too, that the outer hull of his ship will stop almost anything in the electromagnetic spectrum. Among photons (and nothing else travels at speed-of-light) only the hardest X-radiation will get through to passenger country and not much of that. But traveling along behind, falling just a little behind each second, is the really dangerous stuff -- big particles, little particles, middle-sized particles, all the debris of nuclear explosion. This stuff is moving very fast but not quite at speed-of-light! He has to get his people safe before it hits. C aptain Darling picked a delay of twenty-five seconds, for where we were and what he expected from the weather reports. I asked him how he picked it and he just grinned without looking happy and said, "I asked my grandfather's ghost." Five times while I was in the control room the officer of the watch started the clock... and five times contact with Hermes Station was picked up again before time ran out and the switch was opened. The sixth time the seconds trickled away while all of us held our breaths... and contact with Hermes wasn't picked up again and the alarm sounded like the wakeful trump of doom. The captain looked stony-faced and turned to duck down the hatch into the radiation shelter. I didn't move, because I expected to be allowed to remain in the control room. Strictly speaking, the control room is part of the radiation shelter, since it is just above it and is enclosed by the same layers of cascade shielding. (It's amazing how many people think that a captain controls his ship by peering out a port, as if he were driving a sand wagon. But he doesn't of course. The control room is inside, where he can watch things much more accurately and conveniently by displays and instruments. The only viewport in the Tricorn is one at the top end of the main axis, to allow passengers to look out at the stars. But we have never been headed so that the mass of the ship would protect that sight-seeing room from solar radiation, so it has been locked off this whole trip.) I knew I was safe where I was, so I hung back, intending to take advantage of being "teacher's pet" -- for I certainly didn't want to spend hours or days stretched out on a shelf with gabbling and maybe hysterical women crowding me. I should have known. The captain hesitated a split second as he started down the hatch and snapped, "Come along, Miss Fries." I came. He always calls me "Poddy" -- and his voice had spank in it. Third-class passengers were already pouring in, since they have the shortest distance to go, and crew members were mustering them in their billets. The crew has been on emergency routine ever since we first were warned by Hermes Station, with their usual one watch in three replaced by four hours on and four hours off. Part of the crew had been staying dressed in radiation armor (which must be very uncomfortable) and simply hanging around passenger country. They can't take that heavy armor off for any reason at all until their reliefs show up, dressed also in armor. These crewmen are the "chasers" who bet their lives that they can check every passenger space, root out stragglers, and still reach the shelter fast enough not to accumulate radiation poisoning. They are all volunteers, and the chasers on duty when the alarm sounds get a big bonus and the other half of them who were lucky enough not to be on duty get a little bonus. T he chief officer is in charge of the first section of chasers and the purser is in charge of the second. But they don't get any bonus, even though the one of them on duty when the alarm sounds is by tradition and law the last man to enter the safety of the shelter. This hardly seems fair... but it is considered their honor as well as their duty. Other crewmen take turns in the radiation shelter and are equipped with mustering lists and billeting diagrams. Naturally service has been pretty skimpy of late, with so many of the crew pulled off their regular duties in order to do just one thing and do it fast at the first jangle of the alarm. Most of these emergency duty assignments have to be made from the stewards and clerks; engineers and communicators and such usually can't be spared. So staterooms may not be made up until late afternoon -- unless you make your own bed and tidy your room yourself, as I have been doing -- and serving meals takes about twice as long as usual, and lounge service is almost non-existent. But -- of course -- the passengers realize the necessity for this temporary mild austerity and are grateful because it is all done for their own safety... You think so? My dear, if you believe that, you will believe anything. You haven't Seen Life until you've seen a rich, elderly Earthman deprived of something he feels is his rightful due, because he figures he paid for it in the price of his ticket. I saw one man, perhaps as old as Uncle Tom and certainly old enough to know better, almost have a stroke. He turned purple, really purple, and gibbered -- all because the bar steward didn't show up on the bounce to fetch him a new deck of playing cards. The bar steward was in armor at the time and couldn't leave his assigned area, and the lounge steward was trying to be three places at once and answer stateroom rings as well. This didn't mean anything to our jolly shipmate. He was threatening to sue the Line and all its directors when his speech became incoherent. Not everybody is that way, of course. Mrs. Grew, fat as she is, has been making her own bed and she is never impatient. Some others who are ordinarily inclined to demand lots of service have lately been making a cheerful best of things. But some of them act like children with tantrums. That isn't pretty in children and is even uglier in in grandparents. The instant I followed the Captain into the radiation shelter I discovered just how efficient Tricorn service can be when it really matters. I was snatched -- snatched like a ball, right out of the air -- and passed from hand to hand. Of course I don't weigh much at one-tenth gravity, all there is at the main axis; but it is rather breath-taking. Some more hands shoved me on my billet, already stretched out, as casually and impersonally as a housewife stows clean laundry, and a voice called out, "Fries, Podkayne!" and another voice answered, "Check." T he spaces around me, and above and below and across from me, filled up awfully fast, with the crewmen working with the unhurried efficiency of automatic machinery sorting mail capsules. Somewhere a baby was crying and through it I heard the captain saying, "Is that the last?" "Last one, Captain," I heard the purser answer. "How's the time?" "Two minutes thirty-seven seconds -- and your boys can start figuring their pay-off, because this one is no drill." "I didn't think it was, Skipper -- and I've won a small bet from the mate myself." Then the purser walked past my billet, carrying someone -- and I tried to sit up and bumped my head and my eyes bugged out. The passenger he was carrying had fainted; her head lolled loosely over the crook of his arm. At first I couldn't tell who it was -- as the face was a bright red. And then I recognized her and  almost fainted. Mrs. Royer! Of course the first symptom of any bad radiation exposure is erythema. Even with a sunburn, or just carelessness with an ultra-violet lamp, the first thing you see is the skin turning pink or bright red. But was it possible that Mrs. Royer had been hit with so much sharp radiation in so very little time that her skin had already turned red in the worst "sunburn" imaginable? Just from being last man in? In that case she hadn't fainted; she was dead. And if that was true, then it was equally true that the passengers who were last to reach the shelter must all have received several times the lethal dosage. They might not feel ill for hours yet; they might not die for days. But they were just as dead as if they were already stretched out stiff and cold. How many? I had no way of guessing. Possibly -- "probably" I corrected myself -- all the first-class passengers; they had the farthest to go and were most exposed to start with. Uncle Tom and Clark -- I felt sudden sick sorrow and wished that I had not been in the control room. If my brother and Uncle Tom were dying. I didn't want to be alive myself. I don't think I wasted any sympathy on Mrs. Royer. I did feel a shock or horror when I saw that flaming red face. But, truthfully, I didn't like her. I thought she was a parasite with contemptible opinions... and, if she had died of heart failure instead, I can't honestly say that it would have affected my appetite. None of us goes around sobpeople who have died in the past... nor over those still living and yet to be born whose single certain heritage is death (including Podkayne Fries herself). So why should you cry foolish tears simply because you happen to be in the neighborhood when someone you don't like -- despise, in fact -- comes to the end of her unlovely string? I n any case, I did not have time to feel sorrow for Mrs. Royer; my heart was filled with grief over my brother and my uncle. I was sorry that I hadn't been sweeter to Uncle Tom, instead of imposing on him and expecting him always to drop whatever he was doing to help me with my silly problems. I regretted all the many times I had fought with my brother. After all, he was a child and I am a woman; I should have made allowances. Tears were welling out of my eyes and I almost missed the captain's first words: "Shipmates," he said, in a voice firm and very soothing -- "my crew and our guests aboard... this is not a drill: this is indeed a radiation storm. "Do not be alarmed. We are all, each and every one of us, perfectly safe. The surgeon has examined the personal radiation exposure meter of the very last one to reach the shelter. It is well within safe limits. Even if they were added to the accumulated exposure of the most-exposed person aboard -- who is not a passenger by the way, but one of the ship's company -- the total would still be inside the conservative maximum for personal health and genetic hygiene. "Let me say it 'again. No one has been hurt, no one is going to be hurt. We are sftnply going to suffer a mild inconvenience. I wish I could tell you how long we will have to remain here in the safety of the shelter. But I do not know. It might be a few hours, it might be several days. The longest radiation storm of record lasted less than a week. We hope that Old Sol is not bad-tempered this time. But, until we receive word from Hermes Station that the storm is over, we will have to stay inside here. Once we know a storm is over it usually does not take too long to check the ship and make sure that your usual comfortable quarters are safe. Until then... be patient and be patient with each other." I started to feel better as soon as the captain started to talk. His voice was almost hypnotic; it had the soothing all-better-now effect of a mother reassuring a child. I relaxed and was simply weak with the aftereffects of my fear. But presently I began to wonder. Would Captain Darling tell us that everything was all right when really everything was All Wrong simply because it was too late and nothing could be done about it? I thought over everything I had ever learned about radiation poisoning, from the simple hygiene they teach in kindergarten to a tape belonging to Mr. Clancy that I had scanned only that week. And I decided that the captain had been telling the truth. W hy? Because, even if my worst fears had been correct, and we had been hit as hard and unexpectedly as if a nuclear weapon had exploded by us, nevertheless something can always be done about it. There would be three groups of us -- those who hadn't been hurt at aH and were not going to die (certainly everybody who was in the control room or in the shelter when it happened, plus all or almost all the thirdclass passengers if they had moved fast), a second group so terribly exposed that they were certain to die, no matter what (let's say everybody in first-class country) -- and a third group, no telling how large, who had been dangerously exposed but could be saved by quick and drastic treatment. In which case that quick and drastic action would be going on. They would be checking our exposure meters and reshuffling us -- sorting out the ones in danger who required rapid treatment, giving morphine shots to the ones who were going to die anyhow and moving them off by themselves, stacking those of us who were safe by ourselves to keep us from getting in the way, or drafting us to help nurse the ones who could be helped. That was certain. But there was nothing going on, nothing at all -- just some babies crying and a murmur of voices. Why, they hadn't even looked at the exposure meters of most of us. It seemed likely that the surgeon had checked only the last few stragglers to reach the shelter. Therefore the captain had told us the simple, heart-warming truth. I felt so good that I forgot to wonder why Mrs. Royer had looked like a ripe tomato. I relaxed and soaked in the warm and happy fact that darling Uncle Tom wasn't going to die and that my kid brother would live to cause me lots more homey grief. I almost went to sleep --  -- and was yanked out of it by the woman on my right starting to scream: "Let me out of herel Let me out of here T Then I did see some fast and drastic emergency action. Two crewmen swarmed up to our shelf and grabbed her; a stewardess was right behind them. She slapped a gag over the woman's mouth and gave her a shot in the arm, all in one motion. Then they held her until she stopped struggling. When she was quiet, one of the crewmen picked her up and took her somewhere. Shortly thereafter a stewardess showed up who was collecting exposure meters and passing out sleeping pills. Most people took them but I resisted -- I don't like pills at best and I certainly won't take one to knock me out so that I won't know what is going on. The stewardess was insistent but I can be awful stubborn, so she shrugged and went away. After that there were three or four more cases of galloping claustrophobia or maybe just plain screaming funk; I wouldn't know. Each was taken care of promptly with no fuss and shortly the shelter was quiet except for snores, a few voices and fairly continuous sounds of babies crying. T here weren't any babies in first class and not many children of any age. Second class has quite a few kids, but third class is swarming with them and every family seems to have at least one young baby. It's why they are there, of course. Almost all of third class are Earth people emigrating to Venus. With Earth so crowded, a man with a big family can easily reach the point where emigration to Venus looks like the best way out of an impossible situation, so he signs a labor contract and Venus Corporation pays for their tickets as an advance against his wages. I suppose it's all right. They need to get away and Venus needs all the people they can get. But I'm glad Mars Republic doesn't subsidize immigration. or we would be swamped. Our immigrants have to pay their own wav. They even have to deboard, tickets they can't cash in for two of our years A good thing, too. At least a third of our immigrants who come to Mars just can't adjust. Thev get homesick and despondent and use those return tickets to go back to Earth. I can't understand anyone's not liking Mars; but if they don't then it's better if they don't stay. I lay there, thinking about such things, a little bit excited and a little bit bored, and mostly wondering why somebody didn't do something about those poor babies. The lights had been dimmed and when somebody came up to my shelf I didn't see who it was at first. "Poddy?" came Girdie's voice, softly but clearlv. "Are you in there?" "I think so What's up, Girdie?" I tried to keep mv voice down. too. "Do you know how to change a baby?" "I certainly do I" Suddenly I wondered how Duncan was doing... and realized that I hadn't really thought about him in days. Had he forgotten me? Would he know Grandmaw Poddy the next time he saw her? "Then come along, chum. There's work to be done." There certainly was. The lowest part of the shelter, four catwalks below my billet and just over the engineering spaces, was cut like a pie into four quarters -- sanitary units, two sick bays, for men and for women and both crowded -- and jammed into a little corner between the infirmaries was a sorry pretense for a nursery, not more than two meters in any dimension. On three walls of it babies were stacked high in canvas crib baskets snap-hooked to the walls, and more overflow into the women's sick bay. A sweeping majority of those babies were crying. In the crowded middle of this pandemonium two harrassed stewardesses were changing babies, working on a barelybig-enough shelf let down out of one wall. Girdie tapped one of them on the shoulder. "All right, girls, reinforcements have landed. So get some rest and a bite to eat." T he older one protested feebly, but they were awfully glad to take a break. They backed out and Girdie and I moved in and took over. I don't know how long we worked, as we didn't have time to think about it -- there was always more than wo could do and we never quite got caught up. But it was better than lying on a shelf and staring at another shelf just centimeters above your nose. The worst of it was that there simply wasn't enough room. I worked with both elbows held in close, to keep from bumping Girdie on one side and a basket crib that was nudging me on the other side. But I'm not complaining about that. The engineer who designed that shelter into the Tricorn had been forced to plan as many people as possible into the smallest space; there wasn't any other way to do it. I doubt if he worried much about getting babies changed and dry. He had enough to do just worrying about how to keep them alive. But you can't tell that to a baby. Girdie worked with an easy, nolost-motions efficiency that surprised me; I would have guessed that she had never had her hands on a baby. But she knew what she was doing and was faster than I was. "Where are their mothers?" I asked, meaning: "Why aren't those lazy slobs here helping instead of leaving it to the stewardesses and some volunteers?" Girdie understood me. "Most of them have other children to keep quiet. They have their hands full. A couple of them went to pieces themselves; they're in there sleeping it off." She jerked her head toward the sick bay. I shut up, as it made sense. You couldn't possibly take care of an infant properly in one of those shallow niches the passengers were stacked in -- and if each mother tried to bring her own baby down here each time, the traffic jam would be indescribable. Jo, this assembly-line system was necessary. I said, "We're running out of Disposies." "Stacked in a cupboard behind you. Did you see what happened to Mrs. Garcia's face?" "Huh?" I squatted and got out more supplies. "You mean Mrs. Royer, don't you?" "I mean both of them. But I saw Milady Garcia first and got a better look at her, while they were quieting her down. You didn't see her?" "No." "Sneak a look into the women's ward first chance you get. Her face is the brightest, most amazing chrome yellow I've ever seen in a paint pot, much less on a human face." I gasped. "Gracious! I did see Mrs. Royer -- bright red instead of yellow. Girdie -- what in the world happened to make them that way?" "I'm fairly sure I know what happened," Girdie answered slowly, "but no one can figure out how it happened." "I don't follow you." "The colors tell the story. Those are the exact shades of two of the water-activated dyes used in photography. Know anything about photography, hon?" "Not much," I answered. I wasn't going to admit what little I did know... because Clark is a very accomplished photographer. And I wasn't going to mention that, either! #T XTell, surely you've seen someVV one taking snapshots. You pull out the tab and there is your picture -- only there's no picture as yet. Clear as glass. So you dip it in water and slosh it around for about thirty seconds. Still no picture. Then you lay it anywhere in the light and the picture starts to show... and when the colors are bright enough to suit you, you cover it up and let it finish drying in darkness, so that the colors won't get too garish." Girdie suppressed a chuckle. "From the results, I would say that they didn't cover their faces in time to stop the process. They probably tried to scrub it off and made it worse." I said, in a puzzled tone -- and I was puzzled, about part of it: "I still don't see how it could happen." "Neither does anybody else. But the Surgeon has a theory. Somebody booby-trapped their wash cloths." "Huh?" "Somebody in the ship must have a supply of the pure dyes. That somebody soaked two wash cloths in the inactive dyes -- colorless, I mean -- and dried them carefully, all in total darkness. Then that same somebody sneaked those two prepared wash cloths into those two staterooms and substituted them for wash cloths they found there on the stateroom wash trays. That last part wouldn't be hard for anyone with cool nerves. Service in the staterooms has been pretty haphazard the last day or two, what with this flap over the radiation storm. Maybe a fresh wash cloth appears in your room, maybe it doesn't -- and all the If you missed the first installment --  -- accept a free copy of the November # If containing it as a gift.See special subscription offer on cover, # issues for #; November # issue." This offer good for a limited time only -- ship's wash cloths and towels are the same pattern. You just wouldn't know." I certainly hope not, I said to myself -- and added, aloud, "I suppose not." "Certainly not. It could be one of the stewardesses. Or any of the passengers. But the real mystery is: where did the dyes come from? The ship's shop doesn't carry them... just the rolls of prepared film... and the surgeon says that he knows enough about chemistry to be but a master chemist, using a special laboratory, could possibly separate out pure dyes from a roll of film. He thinks, too, that since the dyes aren't even manufactured on Mars, this somebody must be someone who came aboard at Earth." Girdie glanced at me and smiled. "So you're not a suspect. Poddy. But I am." "Why are you a suspect?" (And if I'm not a suspect, then my brother isn't a suspect!) "Why, that's silly!" "Yes, it is... because I wouldn't have known how even if I'd had the dyes. But it isn't... inasmuch as I could have bought them before I left Earth. And I don't have reason to like either of those women." "I've never heard you say a word against them." "No, but they've said a few thousand words about me -- and other people have ears. So I'm a hot suspect, Poddy. But don't fret about it. I didn't do it, so there is no possible way to show that I did." She chuckled. "And I hope they never catch the somebody who did!" I didn't even answer, "Me, too!" I could think of one person who might figure out a way to get pure dyes out of a roll of film, without a complete chemistry laboratory...  and I was checking quickly through my mind every item I had seen when I searched Clark's room. There hadn't been . anything in Clark's room which could have been photographic dyes. No, not even film. Which proves precisely nothing where Clark is concerned. I just hope that he was careful about fingerprints. T wo other stewardesses came in presently and we fed all the babies. Then Girdie and I managed a sort of wash-up and had a snack standing up, and then I went back up to my assigned shelf and surprised myself by falling asleep. I must have slept three or four hours, because I missed the happenings when Mrs. Dirkson had her baby. She is one of the Terran emigrants to Venus and she shouldn't have had her baby until long after we reach Venus. I suppose the excitement stirred things up. Anyhow, when she started to groan, they carried her down to that dinky infirmary and Dr. Torland took one look at her and ordered her carried up into the control room -- because the control room was the only place inside the radiation-safe space roomy enough to let him do what needed to be done. So that's where the baby was bom, on the deck of the control room, right between the chart tank and the computer. Dr. Torland and Captain Darling are godfathers and the senior stewardess is godmother and the baby's name is "Radiant," which is a poor pun but rather pretty. They jury-rigged an incubator for Radiant right there in the control room before they moved Mrs. Dirkson back to the infirmary and gave her something to make her sleep. The baby was still there when I woke up and heard about it. I decided to take a chance that the captain was feeling more mellow now, and sneaked up to the control room and stuck my head in. "Could I please see the baby?" The captain looked annoyed, then he barely smiled and said, "All right, Poddy. Take a quick look and get out." So I did. Radiant masses about a kilo and. frankly, she looks like cat meat, not worth saving. But Dr. Torland says that she is doing well and that she will grow up to be a fine, healthy girl -- prettier than I am. I suppose he knows what he is talking about, but if she is ever going to be prettier than I am, she has lots of kilometers to go. She is almost the color of Mrs. Royer and she's mostly wrinkles. But no doubt shell outgrow it, because she looks like one of the pictures toward the end of the series in a rather goody-goody school book called The Miracle of Life. The earlier pictures, in that series were even less appetizing. It is probably just as well that we can't possibly see babies until they are ready to make their debut, or the human race would lose interest and die It would probably be still better to lay eggs. Human engineering isn't all that it might be, especially for us female types. I went back down where the more mature babies were to see if they needed me. They didn't, not right then, as the babies had been fed again and a stewardess ahd a young woman I had never met were on duty and claimed that they had been working only a few minutes. I hung around anyhow, rather than go back up to my shelf. Soon I was pretending to be useful by reaching past the two who really were working and checking the babies, then handing down the ones who needed servicing as quickly as shelf space was cleared. It speeded things up a little. Presently I pulled a little wiggler out of his basket and was cuddling him. The stewardess looked up and said, "I'm ready for him." "Oh, he's not wet," I answered. "Or 'she' as the case may be. Just lonely and needs loving." "We haven't time for that." "I wonder." The worst thing about that midget nursery was the high noise level. The babies woke each other and egged each other on and the decibels were something fierce. No doubt they were all lonely and probably frightened -- I'm sure I would be. "Most of these babies need loving more than they need anything else." "They've all had their bottles." "A bottle can't cuddle." She didn't answer, but just started checking the other infants. But I didn't think what I had said was silly. A baby can't understand your words and he doesn't know where he is if you put him in a strange place, nor what has happened. So he cries. Then he needs to be soothed. Girdie showed up just then. "Can I help?" "You certainly can. Here... hold this one." In a few minutes I rounded up three girls about my age and I ran across Clark prowling around the catwalks instead of staying quietly in his assigned billet so I drafted him, too. He wasn't exactly eager to volunteer. But doing anything was slightly better than doing nothing; he came along. I couldn't use any more help as standing room was almost non-existent. We worked it only by having two baby-cuddlers sort of back into each of the infirmaries, with the mistress of ceremonies (me) standing in the little space at the bottom of the ladder, ready to scrunch in any direction to let people get in and out of, the washrooms and up and down the ladder -- and with Girdie, because she was tallest, standing back of the two at the changing shelf and dealing out babies, the loudest back to me for further assignment and the wet ones down for service -- and vice versa; dry ones back to their baskets unless they started to yell, ones that had fallen asleep from being held and cuddled likewise. At least seven babies could receive personal attention at once, and sometimes as high as ten or eleven, because at one-tenth gee your feet never get tired and a baby doesn't weigh anything at all worth mentioning; it was possible to hold one in each arm and sometimes we did. In ten minutes we had that racket quieted down to an occasional whimper, quickly soothed. I didn't think Clark would stick it out, but he did -- probably because Girdie was part of the team. With a look of grim nobility on his face the like of which I have never before seen there he cuddled babies and presently was saying, "Kitchy-koo,kitchy-koo!" and "TTiere, there, honey bun," as if he had been doing it all his life. Furthermore, the babies seemed to like him. He could soothe one down quickest of any of us. T tois went on for several hours, with volunteers moving in and tired ones moving out and positions rotating. I was relieved once and had another snatched meal and then stretched out on my shelf for about an hour before going back to duty. I was back at the changing shelf when the captain called us all by speaker: "Attention, please. In five minutes power will be cut and the ship will be in free fall while a repair is made outside the ship. All passengers strap down. All crew members observe precautions for free fall." I went right on changing the baby under my hands; you can't walk off on a baby. In the meantime babies that had been being cuddled were handed back and stowed, and the cuddling team was chased back to their shelves to strap down and spin was being taken off the ship. One rotation every twelve seconds you simply don't notice at the center of the ship -- but you do notice when the unspinning starts. The stewardess with me on the changing bench said, "Poddy, go up and strap down. Hurry." I said, "Don't be silly, Bergitta, there's work to be done," and popped the baby I had just dried into its basket and fastened the zipper. "You're a passenger. That's an order -- please " "Who's going to check all these babies? You? And how about those four in on the floor of the women's sick bay?" Bergitta looked startled and hurried to fetch them. All the other stewardesses were busy checking on strap-down; she didn't bother me any more with That's-an-order; she was too busy hooking up the changing shelf and fastening baby baskets to the space. I was checking all the others and almost all of them had been left unzipped -- logical enough while we were working with them, but zipping the cover on a baby basket is the 'same as strapping down for a grown-up. It holds them firmly but comfortably with just their heads free. I still hadn't finished when the siren sounded and the captain cut the power. Oh, brother! Pandemonium. The siren woke the babies who were asleep and scared any who were awake and every single one of those squirmy little worms started to cry at the top of its lungs... and one I hadn't zipped yet popped right out of its basket and floated right into the middle of space and I snagged it by one leg and was loose myself and the baby and I bumped gently against the baskets on one wall -- only it wasn't a wall any longer, it was just an obstacle to further progress. Free fall can be very confusing when you are not used to it, which I admit I am not. Or wasn't. The stewardess grabbed us both. She shoved the elusive little darling back into her straightjacket and zipped it while I hung onto a hand hold. And by then two more were loose. I did better this time. I snagged one without letting go and just kept it captive while Bergitta took care of the other one. Bergitta really knew how to handle herself in zero gravity, with unabrupt graceful movements like a dancer in a slowmotion solly. I made a mental note that this was a skill I must acquire. I thought the emergency was over. I was wrong. Babies don't like free fall; it frightens them. It also makes their sphincters most erratic. Most of the latter we could ignore -- but Disposes don't catch everything; regrettably some six or seven of them had been fed in the last hour. I know now why stewardesses are all graduate nurses. We kept five babies from choking to death in the next few minutes. That is, Bergitta cleared the throat of the first one that up-chucked its milk and, seeing what she had done, I worked on the second one in trouble while she grabbed the third. And so on. Then we were very busy trying to clear the air with clean Disposies because -- listen, dear, if you think you've had it tough because your baby brother threw up all over your new party dress, then you should try free fall, where it doesn't settle anywhere in particular but just floats around like smoke until you either get it or it gets you. From six babies. In a small compartment. By the time we had the mess cleaned up, or #  so, anyway, we were both mostly sour milk from hair part to ankle and the captain was warning us to stand by for acceleration, which came almost at once to my great relief. The chief stewardess showed up and was horrified that I had not strapped down. I told her in a ladylike way to go to hell, using a more polite idiom suitable to my age and sex -- and asked her what Captain Darling would think about a baby passenger choking to death simply because I had strapped dojvn all regulation-like and according to orders? And Bergitta backed me up and told her that I had cleared choke from at least two and maybe more -- she had been too busy to count. Mrs. Peal, the C.S., changed her tune in a hurry and was sorry and thanked me. She sighed and wiped her forehead and trembled and you could see that she was dead on her feet. But nevertheless she checked all the babies herself and hurried out. Pretty quickly we were relieved. Bergitta and I crowded into the women's washroom and tried to clean up some -- not much good as we didn't have any clean clothes to change into. The "All Clear" felt like a reprieve from purgatory. A hot bath was heaven itself, with the angels singing. "A" deck had already been checked for radiation level and pronounced safe while the repair outside the ship was being made. The repair itself, I learned, was routine. Some of the antennas and receptors and things outside the ship can't take a flare storm. They burn out, so immediately after a storm men go outside in armored space suits and replace them. This is normal and unavoidable, like replacing lighting tubes at home. But the men who do If you missed the first installment --  -- accept a free copy of the November # If containing it as a gift. See special subscription offer on cover, # issues for #; November # issue." This offer good for a limited time only -- it get the same radiation bonus that the passenger chasers get -- because Old Sol could burn them down with one tiny little afterthought. I soaked in warm, clean water and thought how miserable an eighteen hours it had been. Then I decided that it hadn't been so bad after all. It's lots better to be miserable than to be bored. IX I am now twenty-seven years old. Venus years, of course, but it sounds so much better. All is relative. Not that I would stay here on Venus even if guaranteed the Perfect Age for a thousand years. Venusberg is sort of an organized nervous breakdown and the country outside the city is even worse. What little I've seen of it. And I don't want to see much of it. Why they ever named this dreary, smog-ridden place for the Goddess of Love and Beauty I'll never know. This planet appears to have been put together from the scrap left over after the rest of the Solar System was finished. I don't think I would go outside Venusberg at all except that I've just got to see fairies in flight. The only one I've seen so far is in the lobby of the hilton we are staying in and is stuffed. Actually I'm just marking time until we shape for Earth, because Venus is a Grave Disappointment. Now I'm keeping my fingers crossed that Earth will not be a G.D., too. But I don't see how it can be. There is something deliciously primitive about the very thought of a planet where one can go outdoors without any special preparations. Why, Uncle Tom tells me that there are places along the Mediterranean (that's an ocean in La Belle France) where the natives bathe in the ocean itself without any clothing of any sort at all, much less insulasuits or masks. I wouldn't like that. Not that I'm body proud; I enjoy a good sauna sweat-out as well as the next Marsman. But it would scare me crosseyed to bathe in an ocean. I don't ever intend to get wet all over in anything larger than a bath tub. I saw a man fished out of the Grand Canal once, in early spring. They had to thaw him before they could cremate him. But it is alleged that, along the Mediterranean shore, the air in the summer time is often blood temperature and the water not much cooler. As may be. Podkayne is not going to take any silly chances. Nevertheless I am terribly eager to see Earth, in all its fantastic unlikeliness. It occurs to me that my most vivid conceptions of Earth come from the Oz stories. When you come right down to it I suppose that isn't too reliable a source. I mean, Dorothy's conversations with the Wizard are instructive -- but about what? When I was a child I believed every word of my Oz tapes... but now I am no longer a child and I do not truly suppose that a whirlwind is a reliable means of transportation, nor that one is likely to encounter a Tin Woodman on a road of yellow brick. Tik-Tok, yes -- because we really do have Tik-Toks in Marsopolis for the simpler and more tedious work. Not precisely like Tik-Tok of Oz, of course, and not called "Tik-Toks" by anyone but children... but near enough, near enough, quite sufficient to show that the Oz stories are founded on fact, if not precisely historical. And I believe in the Hungry Tiger, too, in the most practical way possible, because there was one in the municipal zoo when I was a child, a gift from the Calcutta Kiwanis Klub to Marsopolis Kiwanians. It always looked at me as if it were sizing me up as an appetizer. It died when I was about five. I didn't know whether to be sorry or glad. It was so beautiful... and so very Hungry. But Earth is still many weeks away and, in the meantime, Venus does have some points of interests for the newcomer, such as I. I n traveling I strongly recommend traveling with my Uncle Tom. On arriving here there were no silly waits in "Hospitality" (!) rooms; we were given the "courtesy of the port" at once -- to the extreme # chagrin of Mrs. Royer. "Courtesy of the port" means that your baggage isn't examined and that nobody bothers to look at that bulky mass of documents -- passport and health record and security clearance and solvency proof and birth certificate and I.D.s and nineteen other silly forms. Instead we were whisked from satellite station to space port in the private yacht of the Chairman of the Board and were met there by the chairman himself! -- and popped into his Rolls and wafted royally to Hilton Tannhauser. We were invited to stay at his official residence (his "cottage," that being the Venus word for a palace) but I don't think he really expected us to accept because Uncle Tom just cocked his left or satirical eyebrow and, "Mr. Chairman, I don't think you would want me to appear to be bribed even if you manage," he said. And the chairman didn't seem offended at all He just chuckled till his belly shook like Saint Nicholas (whom he strongly resembles even to the beard and the red cheeks although his eyes are cold even when he laughs, which is frequently.) "Senator," he said, "you know me better than that. My attempt to bribe you will be much more subtle. Perhaps through this young lady. Miss Podkayne, are you fond of jewelry?" I told him honestly that I wasn't, very, because I always lose it. So he blinked and said to Clark, "How about you, son?" Clark said, "I prefer cash." The chairman blinked again and said nothing. Nor had he said anything to his driver when Uncle Tom declined the offer of his roof; nevertheless we flew straight to our hilton -- which is why I don't think he ever expected us to stay with him. But I am beginning to realize that this is not entirely a pleasure trip for Uncle Tom... and to grasp emotionally a fact known only intellectually in the past, i.e., Uncle Tom is not merely the best pinochle player in Marsopolis, he sometimes plays other games for higher stakes. I must confess that the what or why ties outside my admittedly youthful horizon -- save that everyone knows that the Three-Planets Conference is coming up Query: Could U.T. conceivably be involved in this? As a consultant or something? I hope not. as it might keep him tied up for weeks on Luna. I have no wish to waste time on a dreary ball of slag while the Wonders of Terra await me -- and Uncle Tom just might be difficult about letting me go down to Earth without him. But I wish still more strongly that Clark had not answered the chairman truthfully. Still, Clark would not sell out his own uncle for more money. On the other hand, Clark does not regard money as "mere." I must think about this -- But it is some comfort to realize that anyone who handed Clark a bribe would find that Clark had not only taken the bribe but the hand. P ossibly our suite at the Tannhauser is intended as a bribe, too. Are we paying for it? I'm almost afraid to ask Uncle Tom, but I do know this: the servants that come with it won't accept tips. Not any. Although I very carefully studied up on the subject of tipping, both for Venus and Earth, so that I would know what to do when the time came -- and it had been my understanding that anyone on Venus always accepts tips, even ushers in churches and bank tellers. But not the servants assigned to us. I have two tiny little amber dolls, identical twins, who shadow me and would bathe me if I would let them. They speak Portuguese but not Ortho -- and at present mv Portuguese is limited to "Gobble-Gobble" (which means "Thank you") and I have trouble explaining to them that I can dress and undress myself and I'm not too sure about their names. They both answer to "Maria." Or at least I don't think they speak Ortho. I must think about this, too. Venus is officially bilingual, Ortho and Portuguese, but I'll bet I heard at least twenty other languages the first hour we were down. German sounds like a man being choked to death, French sounds like a cat fight, while Spanish sounds like molasses gurgling gently out of a jug. Cantonese -- Well, think of a man trying to vocalize Bach who doesn't like Bach very much to start with. Fortunately almost everybody understands Ortho as well. Except Maria and Maria. If true. I could live a long time without the luxury of personal maids but I must admit that this hilton suite is quite a treat to a plain-living wholesome Mars girl, namelv me. Especially as I am in it quite a lot of the time and will be for a while vet. The ship's surgeon. Dr. Torland, gave me many of the special inoculations needed for Venus on the trip here -- an unpleasant subject I chose not to mention -- but there still remain many more before it will be safe for me to go outside the city, or even very much into the city. As soon as we reached our suite a phvsician appeared and played chess on my back with scratches, red to move and mate in fiye moves. Three hours later I had several tens of welts, with something horrid that must be done about each of them Clark ducked out and didn't get his scratch tests until the next morning. I misdoubt he will die of Purple Itch or some such, were it not that his karma is so clearly reserving him for hanging. Uncle Tom refused the tests. He was through all this routine more than twenty years ago and anyhow he claims that the too, too mortal flesh is merely a figment of the imagination. So I am more or less limited for a few days to lavish living here in the Tannhauser. If I go out I must wear gloves and a mask even in the city. But one whole wall of the suite's salon becomes a stereo stage simply by voice request, either taped or piped live from any theater or club in Venusberg -- and some of the "entertainment" has widened my sophistication unbelievably, especially when Uncle Tom is not around. I am beginning to realize that Mars is an essentially puritanical culture. Of course Venus doesn't actually have laws, just company regulations, none of which seem to be concerned with personal conduct. But I had been brought up to believe that Mars Republic is a free society. I suppose it is. However, there is "freedom" and "freedom." H ere the Venus Corporation owns everything worth owning and runs everything that shows a profit, all in a fashion that would make Marsmen swoon. But I guess Venusmen would swoon at how straitlaced we are. I know this Mars girl blushed for the first time in I don't know when and switched off a show that I didn't really believe. But the solly screen is far from being the only astonishing feature of this suite. It is so big that one ?# should carry food and water when exploring it and the salon is so huge that local storms appear distinctly possible. My private bath is a suite in itself, with so many gadgets in it that I ought to have an advanced degree in engineering before risking washing my hands. But I've learned how to use them all and purely love them! I had never dreamed that I had been limping along all my life without Utter Necessities. Up to now my top ambition along these lines has been not to have to share a wash stand with Clark because it has never been safe to reach for my own Christmas-present cologne without checking to see that it is not nitric acid or worse. Clark regards a bathroom as an auxiliary chemistry lab; he's not much interested in staying clean. But the most astonishing thing in our suite is the piano. No, no, dear, I don't mean a keyboard hooked into the sound system; I mean a real piano. Three legs. Made out of wood. Enormous. That odd awkward-graceful curved shape that doesn't fit anything else and can't be put in a corner. A top that opens up and lets you see that it really does have a harp inside and very complex machinery for making it work. I think that there are just four real pianos on all of Mars, the one in the Museum that nobody plays and probably doesn't work, the one in Lowell Academy that no longer has a harp inside it, just wiring connections that make it really the same as any other piano, the one in the Rose House (as if any President ever had time to play a piano!), and the one in the Beaux Arts Hall that actually is played sometimes by visiting artists although I've never heard it. I don't think there can be another one, or it would have been bannerlined in the news, wouldn't you think?  This one was made by a man named Steinway and it must have taken him a lifetime. I played Chopsticks on it (that being the best opus in my limited repertoire) until Uncle asked me to stop. Then I closed it up, keyboard and top, because I had seen Clark eyeing the machinery inside, and warned him sweetly but firmly that if he touched one finger to it I would break all his fingers while he was asleep. He wasn't listening but he knows I mean it. That piano is Sacred to the Muses and is not to be taken apart by our Young Archimedes. I don't care what the electronics engineers say. There is a vast difference between a "piano" and a real piano. No matter if their silly oscilloscopes "prove" that the sound is identical. It is like the difference between being warmly clothed -- or climbing up in your Daddy's lap and getting really warm. I haven't been under house arrest all the time. I've been to the casinos, with Girdie and with Dexter Cunha, Dexter being the son of Mr. Chairman of the Board Kurt Cunha. Girdie is leaving us here, going to stay on Venus, and it makes me sad. I asked her, "Why?" We were sitting alone in our palatial salon Girdie is staying in this same hilton, in a room not very different nor much larger than her cabin in the Tricorn. I guess I'm just mean enough that I wanted her to see the swank we were enjoying. But my excuse was to have her help me dress. For now I am wearing (Shudder?) support garments. Arch supports in my shoes and tight things here and here intended to keep me from spreading out like an amoeba. I won't say what Clark calls them because Clark is rude, crude, unrefined, and barbaric. I hate them. But, at # of one standard gee I need them despite all that exercise I took aboard ship. This alone is reason enough not to live on Venus, or on Earth, even if they were as delightful as Mars. Girdie did help me -- she had bought them for me in the first place -- but she also made me change my makeup, one which I had most carefully copied out of the latest issue of Aphrodite. She looked at me and said, "Go wash your face. Poddv Then we'll start over." I pouted out my lip and said, "Won't?" The one thing I had noticed most and quickest was that every female on Venus wears paint like a Red Indian shooting at the Good Guys in the sollies. Even Maria and Maria wear three times as much makeup just to work in as Mother wears to a formal reception -- and Mother doesn't wear any when working. "Poddy, Poddy? Be a good girl." "I am being a good girl. It's polite to do things the way the local people do them, I learned that when I was just a child. And look at yourself in the mirror?" Girdie was wearing as high-styled a Venusberg face-do as any in that magazine. "I know what I look like. But I am more than twice your age and no one even suspects me of being young and sweet and innocent. Always be what you are, Poddy. Never pretend. Look at Mrs. Grew. She's a comfortable fat old woman. She isn't kittenish, she's just nice to be around." "You want me to look like a hick tourist?" "I want you to look like Poddy. Come, dear, we'll find a happy medium. I grant you that even the girls your age here wear more makeup than grown-up women do on Mars -- so we'll compromise Instead of painting you like a Venusberg trollop, we'll make you a young lady of good family and gentle breeding, one who is widely traveled and used to all sorts of customs and manners -- and so calmly sure of herself that she knows what is best for her... , totally uninfluenced by local fads." Girdie is an artist, I must admit. She started with a blank canvas and worked on me for more than an hour When she got through, you couldn't see that I was wearing any makeup at all. B ut here is what you could see: I was at least two years older (real years. Mars years, or about six Venus years); my face was thinner and my nose not pug at all and I looked ever so slightly world-weary in a sweet and tolerant way. My eyes were enormous. "Satisfied?" she asked. "I'm beautiful !" "Yes, you are. Because you are still Poddy. All I've done is make a picture of Poddy the way she is going to be. Before long." My eyes filled with tears and we had to blot them up very hastily and she repaired the damage. "Now," she said briskly, "all we need is a club. And your mask." "What's the club for? And I won't wear a mask, not on top of this." "The club is to beat off wealthy stockholders who will throw themselves at your feet. And you will wear your mask, or else we won't go" We compromised. I wore the mask until we got there and Girdie promised to repair any damage to my face -- and promised that she would coach me as many times as necessary until I could put on that lovely, lying face myself. The casinos are safe, or supposed to be. The air is not merely filtered and conditioned but freshly regenerated, free of any trace of pollen, virus, colloidal suspension or whatever. This is because lots of tourists don't like to take all the long list of immunizations necessary actually to live on Venus... but the Corporation wouldn't think of letting a tourist get away unbled. So the hiltons are safe and the casinos are safe and a tourist can buy a health insurance policy from the Corporation for a very modest premium. Then he finds that he can cash his policy back in for gambling chips any time he wants to. I understand that the Corporation hasn't had to pay off on one of those policies very often. Venusberg assaults the eye and ear even from inside a taxi. I believe in free enterprise; all Marsmen do, it's an article of faith and the main reason we won't federate with Earth (and be outvoted five hundred to one). But free enterprise is not enough excuse to blare in your ears and glare in your eyes every time you leave your own roof. The shops never close (I don't think anything ever closes, in Venusberg) and full color and stereo ads climb right inside your taxi and sit in your lap and shout in your ear. Don't ask me how this horrid illusion is produced. The engineer who invented it probably flew off on his own broom. This red devil about a meter high appeared between us and the partition separating us from the driver (there wasn't a sign of a solly receiver) and started jabbing at us with a pitchfork. "Get the HiHo Habit!" it shrieked. "Everybody drinks Hi-Ho! Soothing, Habit-Forming, T)ee-lishus! Get High with HiHo!" I shrank back against the cushions. Girdie phoned the driver. "Please shut that thing off." It faded down to just a pink ghost and the commercial dropped to a whisper while the driver answered, "Can't, Madam. They rent the concession." Devil and noise came back on full blast. And I learned something about tipping. Girdie took money from her purse, displaying one note. Nothing happened and she added a second; noise and image faded down again. She passed them through a slot to the driver and we weren't bothered any more. Oh, the transparent ghost of the red devil remained and a nagging whisper of his voice, until both were replaced by another ad just as faint -- but we could talk. The giant ads in the street outside were noisier and more dazzling; I didn't see how the driver could see or hear to drive, especially as traffic was unbelievably thick and heart-stoppingly fast and frantic and our driver kept cutting in and out of lanes and up and down in levels as if he were trying utmostly to beat Death to a hospital. By the time we slammed to a stop on the roof of Dom Pedro Casino I figure Death wasn't more than a half a lap behind. I learned later why they drive like that. The hackie is an employe of the Corporation, like most everybody -- but he is an "enterprise-employe," not on wages. Each day he has to take in a certain amount in fares to "make his nut" -- the corporation gets all of this. After he has rolled up that fixed number of paid kilometers, he splits the take with the Cprporation on all other fares the rest of the day. So he drives like ipad to pay off the nut as fast as possible and start making some money himself. Then he keeps on driving fast because he's got to get his while the getting is good. Uncle Tom says that most people on Earth have much the same deal, except it's done by the year and they call it income tax. In Xanadu did Kubla Khan A stately pleasure dome decree -- Dom Pedro Casino is like that. Lavish. Beautiful. Exotic. The arch this may well be true. However, all Girdie and I visited were the gaming rooms. I never saw so much money in my whole life! A sign outside the gambling sector read: All Games Are Honest All Games Have A House Percentage So Come On In and Have Fun --  (While We Prove It) Checks Accepted. All Credit Cards Honored. Free Breakfast and a Ride to your Hilton when You Go Broke. Your Host, Dom Pedro I said, "Girdie, there really is somebody named Dom Pedro?" She shrugged. "He's an employe and that's not his real name. But he does look like an emperor. I'll point him out. You can meet him if you like and he'll kiss your hand. If you like that sort of thing. Come on." She headed for the roulette tables while I tried to see everything at once. It was like being on the inside of a kaleidoscope. People beautifully dressed (employes mostly, people dressed every sort of way, from formal evening wear to sports shorts (tourists mostly), bright lights, staccato music, click and tinkle and shuffle and snap, rich hangings, armed guards in comic opera uniforms, trays of drinks and food, nervous excitement, and money -- I stopped suddenly, so Girdie stopped. My brother Clark. Seated at a crescent-shaped table at which a beautiful lady was dealing cards. In front of him several tall stacks of chips and an imposing pile of paper money. I should not have been startled. If you think that a six-year-old boy (or eighteen-year-old if you use their years) wouldn't be allowed to gamble in Venusberg, then you haven't been to Venus. Never mind what we do in Marsopolis, here there are just two requirements to gamble: (a) you have to be alive; (b) you have to have money. You don't have to be able to talk Portuguese nor Ortho, nor any known language. As long as you can nod, wink, grunt or flip a tendril, they'll take your bet. And your shirt. No, I shouldn't have been surprised. Clark heads straight for money the way ions head for an electrode. Now I knew where he had ducked out to the first night and where he had been most of the time since. I went up and tapped him on the shoulder. He didn't look around at once but a man popped up out of the rug like a genie from a lamp and had me by the arm. Clark said to the dealer, "Hit me," and looked around. "Hi, Sis. It's all right, Joe, she's my sister." "Okay?" the man said doubtfully, still holding my arm. "Sure, sure. She's harmless. Sis, this is Josie Mendoza, company cop, on lease to me for tonight. Hi, Girdie!" Clark's voice was suddenly enthusiastic. But he remembered to say, "Joe, slip into my seat and watch the stuff. Girdie, this is swell! You gonna play blackjack? You can have my seat." (It must be love, dears. Or a high fever.) She explained that she was about to play roulette. "Want me to come help?" he said eagerly. "I'm pretty good on the wheel, too." She explained to him gently that she did not want help because she was working on a system, and promised to see him later in the evening. Girdie is unbelievably patient with Clark. I would have -- Come to think of it, she's unbelievably patient with me. If Girdie has a system for roulette, it didn't show. We found two stools together and she tried to give me a few chips. I didn't want to gamble and told her so, and she explained that I would have to stand up if I didn't. Considering what # gee does to my poor feet I bought a few chips of my own and did just what she did, which was to place minimum bets on the colors, or on odd or even. This way you don't win, you don't lose -- except that once in a long while the little ball lands on zero and you lose a chip permanently (that "house percentage" the sign warned against). The croupier could see what we were doing but we actually were gambling and inside the rules. He didn't object. I discovered almost at once that the trays of food circulating and the drinks were absolutely free -- to anyone who was gambling. Girdie had a glass of wine. I don't touch alcoholic drinks even on birthdays and I certainly wasn't going to drink Hi-Ho, after that obnoxious ad -- but I ate two or three sandwiches, and asked for and got -- they had to go get it -- a glass of milk. I tipped the amount I saw Girdie tip. W e had been there over an hour and I was maybe three or four chips ahead when I happened to sit up straight -- and knocked a glass out of the hand of a man standing behind me, all over him, some over me. "Oh, dear!" I said, jumping down from my stool and trying to dab off the wet spots on him with my kerchief. "I'm terribly sorry!" He bowed. "No harm done to me. Merely soda water. But I fear my clumsiness has ruined milady's gown." Out of one corner of her mouth Girdie said, "Watch it, kid!" but I answered, "This dress? Huh-uh! If that was just water, there won't be a wrinkle or a spot in ten minute. Nothing but travel clothes." "You are a visitor to our city? Then permit me to introduce myself less informally than by soaking you to the skin." He whipped out a card. Girdie was looking grim but I rather liked his looks. He was actually not impossibly older than I am (I guessed at twelve Mars years, or say thirty-six of his own -- and it turned out he was only thirtytwo), dressed in the very elegant Venus evening wear, with cape and stick and formal ruff... and the cutest little waxed moustaches. The card read: Dexter Kurt Cunha, Stk. I read it, then reread it, then said, "Dexter Kurt Cunha. Are you any relation to -- " "My father." "Why, I know your father!" -- and put out my hand. Ever had your hand kissed? It makes chill bumps that race up your arm across your shoulders and down the other arm -- and of course nobody would ever do it on Mars. This is a distinct shortcoming in our planet and one I intend to correct, even if I have to bribe Clark to institute the custom. By the time we had names straight Dexter was urging us to share a bite of supper and some dancing with him in the roof garden. But Girdie was balky. "Mr. Cunha," she said, "that is a very handsome calling card. But I am responsible for Podkayne to her uncle, and I would rather see your I.D." For a split second he looked chilly. Then he smiled warmly at her and said, "I can do better," and held up one hand. T l he most imposing old gentleman I have ever seen hurried over. From the medals on his chest I would say that he had wop every spelling contest from first grade on. His bearing was kingly and his costume unbelievable. "Yes, Stockholder?" "Dorn Pedro, will you please identify me to these ladies?" "With pleasure, sir." So Dexter was really Dexter and I got my hand kissed again. Dom Pedro does it with a great flourish but it didn't have quite the same effect. I don't think he puts his heart into it the way Dexter does. Girdie insisted on stopping to collect Clark -- and Clark suffered an awful moment of spontaneous schizophrenia, for he was still winning. But love won out and Girdie went up on Clark's arm, with Josie trailing us with the loot. I must say I admire my brother in some ways. Spending cash money to protect his winnings must have caused even deeper conflict in his soul, if any, than leaving the game while he was winning. The roof garden is the Brasilia Room and is even more magnificent than the casino proper, with a nightsky roof to match its name, stars and the Milky Way and the Southern Cross such as nobody ever in history actually saw from anywhere on Venus. Tourists were lined up behind a velvet rope waiting to get in. But not us. It was, "This way, if you please, Stockholder," to an elevated table right by the floor and across from the orchestra. We danced and we ate foods I've never heard of and I let a glass of champagne be poured for me but didn't try to drink it because the bubbles go up my nose -- and wished for a glass of milk or at least a glass of water because some of the food was quite spicy, but didn't ask for it. But Dexter leaned over me and said, "Poddy, my spies tell me that you like milk." "I do!" "So do I. But I'm too shy to order it unless I have somebody to back me up." He raised a finger and two glasses of milk appeared instantly. But I noticed that he hardly touched his. However I did not realize I had been hoaxed until later. A singer, part of the floor show, a tall handsome dark girl dressed as a gypsy -- if gypsies did ever dress that way, which I doubt, but she was billed as "Romany Rose" -- toured the ringside tables singing topical verses to a popular song. She stopped in front of us, looked right at me and smiled, struck a couple of chords and sang: "Poddy Fries came to town. Pretty, winsome Poddy -- Silver shoes and sky blue gown, Lovely darling Podkayne -- "She has sailed the starry sea, Pour another toddy! Lucky Dexter, lucky we! Drink a toast to Poddy!" And everybody clapped and Clark pounded on the table and Romany Rose curtseyed to me and I started to cry and covered my face with my hands and suddenly remembered that I mustn't cry because of my makeup and dabbed at my eyes with my napkin and hoped I hadn't ruined it, and suddenly silver .buckets with champagne appeared all over that big room and everybody did drink a toast to me, standing up when Dexter stood up in a sudden silence brought on by a roll of drums. I was speechless and just barely knew enough to stay seated myself and nod and try to smile when he looked at me --  -- and he broke his glass, just like story tapes, and everybody imitated him and for a while there was crash and tinkle all over the room, and I felt like Ozma just after she stops being Tip and is Ozma again and I had to remember my makeup very hard indeed! Later on, after I had gulped my stomach back into place and could stand up without trembling, I danced with Dexter again. He is a dreamy dancer -- a firm, sure lead without ever turning it into a wrestling match. During a waltz I said, "Dexter? You spilled that glass of soda water. On purpose." "Yes. How did you know?" "Because it is a sky blue dress -- or the color that is called 'sky blue, for Earth, although I've never seen a sky this color. And my shoes are silvered. So it couldn't have been an accident. Any of it." He just grinned, not a bit ashamed. "Only a little of it. I went first to your hilton. It took almost half an hour to find out who had taken you where and I was furious, because Papa would have been most vexed. But I found you." I chewed that over and didn't like the ta-ste. "Then you did it because your Daddy told you to. Told you to entertain me because I'm Uncle Tom's niece." "No, Poddy." "Huh? Better check through the circuits again. That's how the numbers read." "No, Poddy. Papa would never order me to entertain a lady -- other than formally, at our cottage -- lady on my arm at dinner, that sort of thing. What he did do was show me a picture of you and ask me if I wanted to. And I decided I did want to. But it wasn't a very good picture of you, didn't do you justice. Just one snapped by one of the servants of the Tannhauser when you didn't know it -- (I decided I had to find some way to get rid of Maria and Maria, a girl needs privacy. Although this hadn't turned out too dry.) But he was sill talking. -- and when I did find you I almost didn't recognize you, you were so much more dazzling than the photograph. I almost shied off from introducing myself. Then I got the wonderful idea of turning it into an accident. I stood behind you with that glass of soda water almost against your elbow for so long the bubbles all went out of it -- and when you did move you bumped me so gently I had to slop it over myself to make it enough of an accident to let me be properly apologetic." He grinned most disarmingly. "I see," I said. "But, look, Dexter, the photograph was probably a very good one. This isn't my own face." I explained what Girdie had done. H e shrugged. "Then some day wash it for me and let me look at the real Poddy. I'll bet I'll recognize her. Look, dear, the accident was only half fake, too. We're even." "What do you mean?" "They named me 'Dexter' for my maternal grandfather, before they found out I was left-handed. Then it was a case of either renaming me 'Sinister,' which doesn't sound too well -- or changing me over to righthanded. But that didn't work out either. It just made me the clumsiest man on three planets -- " (This while twirling me through a figure eight!) knocking things over. You can follow me by the sound of fractured frangibles. The problem was not to cause an accident, but to keep from instant." He grinned that impish grin. "I feel very triumphant about it. But forcing me out of left-handedness did something else to me too. It's made me a natural-born rebel -- You take the if out of gift if you give if this year IF Has become more and more a factor in the science fiction field. The line-up for # already includes such authors as -- Clifford Simak, Robert A. Heinlein, Fred Pohl, Hal Clement, Keith Laumer and many more of your favorites, that are certainly favorites of the person you plan to give this most welcome gift. A special card will announce your gift to the lucky recipient and each issue will remind him of your thoughtfulness. (These special low prices are good until December #th) (# issues) S# additional # Q #st Subscription  or Subscription  IF Science Fiction  #I Hudson Street, New York #, N.Y. Please enter Special Gift Subscriptions to the following and send gift card announcements. I enclose Name Name Address... Add ress City State City State I year # years Price I year # years Price Sign Card Sign Card Name Address City State I year .I # years Price Sign Card Name Address City State I year # years Price Sign Card Name Address City I year... Sign Card . State...Price... Name Address. City State I year # years Price... Sign Card # years and I think you are one, too." "I certainly am. I am expected to be Chairman of the Board someday, like my papa and my grandpapa. But I shan't. I'm going to space." "Oh! So am I!" We stopped dancing and chattered about spacing. Dexter intends to be an explorer captain just like me. Only I didn't quite admit that my plans for spacing included pilot and master; it is never well in dealing with a male to let him know that you think you can do whatever it is he can do best or wants to do most. But Dexter intends to go to Cambridge and study paramagnetics and Davis mechanics and be ready when the first true star ships are ready. Goodness! "Poddy, maybe we'll even do it together. Lots of billets for women in star ships." I agreed that that was so. "But let's talk about you. Poddy, it wasn't that you looked so much better than your picture." "No?" (I felt vaguely disappointed.) "No. Look. I know your background, I know you've lived all your life in Marsopolis. Me, I've been everywhere. Sent to Earth for school, took the Grand Tour while I was there, been to Luna, of course, and all over Venus -- and to Mars. When you were a little girl. I wish I had met you then." "Thank you." (I was beginning to feel like a poor relation.) "So I know exactly what a honkytonk town Venusberg is... and what a shock it is to people the first time. Especially anyone reared in a gentle and civilized place like Marsopolis. Oh, I love my home town but I know what it is -- I've been other places. Poddy? Look at me, Poddy. The thing that impressed me about you was your aplomb." "Me?" "Your amazing and perfect savoirfaire... under conditions I knew were strange to you. Your uncle has been everywhere, and Girdie, I take it, has been, too. But lots of strangers here, older women, become quite giddy when first exposed to the fleshpots of Venusberg. But you carry yourself like a queen." (This man I liked! Definitely. After years and years of "Beat it, runt!" it does something to a woman to be told she has savoir-faire. I didn't even stop to wonder if he told all the girls that -- I didn't want to!) W e didn't stay much longer. Girdie made it plain that I had to get my "beauty sleep." So Clark went back to his game (Jose appeared out of nowhere at the right time -- and I thought of telling Clark he had better git fer home, too, but I decided that wasn't "savoir-faire" and anyhow he wouldn't have listened) and Dexter took us to the Tannhauser in his Papa's Rolls (or maybe his own, I don't know) and bowed over our hands and kissed them as he left us. I was wondering if he would try to kiss me good night and had made up my mind to be cooperative about it. But he didn't try. Maybe it's not a Venusberg custom, I don't know. Girdie went up with me because I wanted to chatter. I bounced myself on a couch and said, "Oh, Girdie, it's been the most wonderful night of my life!" "It hasn't been a bad night for me," she said quietly. "It certainly can't hurt me to have met the son of the Chairman of the Board." It was then that she told me that she was staying on Venus. "But, Girdie -- why? "Because I'm broke, dear. I need a job." "You? But you're rich. Everybody knows that." She smiled. "I was rich, dear. But my last husband went through it all. He was an optimistic man and excellent company. But not nearly the businessman he thought he was. So now Girdie must gird her loins and get to work. Venusberg is better than Earth for that. Back home I could either be a parasite on my old friends until they got sick of me -- the chronic house guest. Or get one of them to give me a job that would really be charity, since I don't know anything. Or disappear into the lower depths and change my name. Here, nobody cares and there is always work for anyone who wants to work. I don't drink and I don't gamble. Venusberg is made to order for me." "But what will you do? It was hard to imagine her as anything but the rich society girl whose parties and pranks were known even on Mars. "Croupier, I hope. They make the highest wages... and I've been studying it. I've been practicing dealing, too -- for blackjack, or faro, or chemin de fer. But I'll probably have to start as a change girl." "Change girls? Girdie, would you dress that way?" She shrugged. "My figure is still good... and I'm quite quick at counting money. It's honest work, Poddy. It has to be. Those change girls often have as much as ten thousand on their trays." I decided I had fubbed and shut up. I guess you can take the girl out of Marsopolis but you cap't quite take Marsopolis out of the girl. Those change girls practically don't wear anything but the trays they carry money on. But it certainly was honest work and Girdie has a figure that had all the junior officers in the Tricorn running in circles and dropping one wing. I'm sure she could have married any of the bachelors and insured her old age thereby with no effort. Isn't it more honest to work? And, if so, why shouldn't she capitalize her assets? She kissed me goodnight soon after and ordered me to go right to bed and to sleep. Which I did -- all but sleep. Well, she wouldn't be a change girl long; she'd be a croupier in a beautiful evening gown... and saving her wages and her tips and someday she would be a stockholder, one share anyway, which is all anybody needs for old age in the Venus Corporation. And I would come back and visit her when I was famous. I wondered if I could ask Dexter to put in a good word for her to Dom Pedro? Then I thought about Dexter -- I know this can't be love; I was in love once and it feels entirely different. It hurts. This just feels grand. X I hear that Clark has been negotiating to sell me (black market, of course) to one of the concessionaires who ship wives out to contract colonists in the bush. Or so they say. I do not know the truth. But There Are Rumors. What infuriates me is that he is said to be offering me at a ridiculously low price! But in truth it is this very fact that convinces me that it is just a rumor, carefully planted by Clark himself, to annoy me -- because, while I would not put it past Clark to sell me into what is tantamount to chattel slavery and a Life of Shame if he could get away with it, nevertheless he would wring out of the sordid transaction every penny the traffic would bear. This is certain. It is much more likely that he is suffering a severe emotional reaction from having opened up and become almost human with me the other night -- and therefore found it necessary to counteract it with this rumor in order to restore our relations to their normal, healthy, cold-war status. Actually I don't think he could get away with it, even on the black market, because I don't have any contract with the Corporation. Even if he forged one, I could always manage to get a message to Dexter, and Clark knows this. Girdie tells me that the black market in wives lies mostly in change girls or clerks or hilton chambermaids who haven't managed to snag husbands in Venusburg (where men are in short supbeing sold out back (where wonien are scarce) in order to jump their contracts. They don't sqiiawk and the Corporation overlooks the matter. Most of the bartered brides, of course, are single women among the immigrants, right off a ship. The concessionaires pay their fare and squeeze whatever cumshaw they can out of the women themselves and the miners or ranchers to whom their contracts are assigned. All Kosher. Not that I understand it. I don't understand anything about how this planet really works. No laws, just Corporate regulations. Want to get married? Find somebody who claims to be a priest or a preacher and have any ceremony you like -- but it hasn't any legal standing because it is not a contract with the Corporation. Want a divorce? Pack your clothes and get out, leaving a note or not as you see fit. Illegitimacy? They've never heard of it. A baby is a baby and the Corporation won't let one want, because that baby will grow up and be an employe and Venus has a chronic labor shortage. Polygamy? Polandry? Who cares? The Corporation doesn't. Bodily assault? Don't try it in Venusberg. It is the most thoroughly policed city in the system -- violent crime is bad for business. I don't wander around alone in some parts of Marsopolis, couth as my home town is, because some of the old sand rats are a bit sun struck and not really responsible. But I'm perfectly safe alone anywhere in Venusberg. The only assault I risk is from super-salesmanship. (The bush is another matter. Not the people so much, but Venus itself is lethal -- and there is always a chance of encountering a Venerian who has gotten hold of a grain of happy dust. Even the little wingety fairies are bloodthirsty if they sniff happy dust.) Murder? This is a very serious violation of regulations. You'll have your pay checked for years and years and years to offset both that employe's earning power for what would have been his working life... and his putative value to the Corporation, all calculated by the company's actuaries who are widely known to have no hearts at all, just liquid helium pumps. anybody on Venus, don't do it! Lure him to a planet where murder is a social matter and all they do is hang you or something. No future in it on Venus. There are three classes of people on Venus: stockholders, employes and a large middle ground. Stockholder-employes (Girdie's ambition), enterprise employes (taxi drivers, ranchers, prospectors, some retailers, etc.) -- and of course future employes, children still being educated. And there are tourists. But tourists aren't people. They have more the status of steers in a cattle pen -- valuable assets to be treated with great consideration but no pity. A person from out-planet can be a tourist for an hour or a lifetime -- just as long as his money holds. No visa, no rules of any sort, everybody welcome -- but you must have a return ticket and you can't cash it in until after you sign a contract with the Corporation. If you do. I wouldn't. I still don't understand how the system works even though Uncle Tom has been very patient in explaining. But he says he doesn't understand it either. He calls it "corporate fascism" -- which explains nothing -- and says that he can't make up his mind whether it is the grimmest tyranny the human race has ever known... or the most perfect democracy in history. He says that nothing here is as bad in many ways as the conditions over # of the people on Earth endure -- and that it isn't even as bad in creature comforts and standards of living as lots of people on Mars, especially the sand rats, even though we never knowingly let anyone starve for lack of medical attention. I Just Don't Know. I can see now that all my life I have simply taken for granted the way we do things on Mars. Oh. sure, I learned about other systems in school -- but it didn't soak in. Now I am beginning to grasp emotionally that There Are Other Ways Than Ours... and that people can be happy under them. Take Girdie. I can see why she didn't want to stay on Barth, not the way things had changed for her. But she could have stayed on Mars; she's just the sort of high class immigrant we want. But Mars didn't tempt her at all. This bothered me because (as you may have gathered) I think Mars is just about perfect. And I think Girdie is just about perfect. Yet a horrible place like Venusberg is what she picked. She says it is a Challenge. Furthermore Uncle Tom says that she is Dead Right; Girdie will have Venusberg eating out of her hand in two shakes and be a stockholder before you can say Extra Dividend. I guess she's right. I felt awfully sorry for Girdie when I found out she was broke. "I wept that I had no shoes -- till I met a man who had no feet." Like that, I mean. I've never been broke, never missed any meals, never worried about the future -- yet I used to feel sorry for Poddy when money was a little tight around home and I couldn't have a new party dress. Then I found out that the rich and glamorous Miss FitzSnugglie (I still won't use her right name, it wouldn't be fair) had only her ticket back to Earth and had borrowed the money for that. I was so sorry it hurt. B ut now I'm beginning to realize that Girdie has her "feet" no matter what, and will always land on them. She has indeed been a change girl, for two whole nights -- and asked me, please, to see to it that Clark did not go to Dom Pedro Casino those nights. I don't think she cared at all whether or not I saw her... but she knows what a horrible case of puppy love Clark has on her and she's just so sweet and good all through that she did not want to risk making it worse andor shocking him. But she's a dealer now and taking lessons for croupier, and Clark goes there every night. But she won't let him play at her table. She told him point blank that he could know her socially or professionally, but not both -- and Clark never argues with the inevitable. He plays at some other table and tags her around whenever possible. Do you suppose that my kid brother actually does possess psionic powers? I know he's not a telepath, else he would have cut my throat long since. But he is still winning. Dexter assures me that (a) the games are absolutely honest, and (b) that no one can possibly beat them, not in the long run, because the house collects its percentage no matter what. "Certainly you can win. Poddy," he assured me. "One tourist came here last year and took it happily -- and advertised it all over Earth -- and still made money the very week he struck it rich. Don't you even suspect that we are giving your brother a break. If he keeps it up long enough, we will not only win it all back but take every buck he started with. If he's as smart as you say he is, he'll quit while he's ahead. But most people aren't that smart -- and Venus Corporation never gambles on anything but a sure thing." Again, I don't know. But it was both Girdie and winning that caused Clark to become almost human with me. For a while. It was last week, the night I met Dexter -- and Girdie told me to go to bed and I did but I couldn't sleep. I left my door open so that I could hear Clark come in -- or if I didn't, phone somebody and have him chased home because, while Uncle Tom is responsible for both of us, I'm responsible for Clark and always have been. I wanted Clark to be home and in bed before Uncle Tom got up. Habit, I guess. He did come sneaking in about two hours after I did and I psst'd to him and he came into my room. You never saw a six-year-old boy with so much money! Josie had seen him to our door, so he said. Don't ask me why he didn't put it in the Tannhauser's vault. Or do ask me. I think he wanted to fondle it. He certainly wanted to boast. He laid it out in stacks on my bed, counting it and making sure that I knew how much it was. He even shoved a pile toward me. "Need some. Poddy? I won't even charge you interest. Plenty more where this came from."  I was breathless. Not the money, I didn't need any money. But the offer. There had been times in the past when Clark has lent me money against my allowance -- and charged me exactly # interest come allowance day. Till Daddy caught and spanked us both. So I thanked him most sincerely and hugged him. Then he said, "Sis, how old would you say Girdie is?" I began to understand his offthe-curve behavior. "I really couldn't guess," I answered carefully. (Didn't need to guess. I knew.) "Why don't you ask her?" "I did. She just smiled at me and said that women don't have birthdays." "Probably an Earth custom," I told him and let it go at that. "Clark, how in the world did you win so much money?" "Nothing to it," he said. "All those games, somebody wins, somebody loses. I just make sure I'm one who wins." "But how?" He just grinned his worst grin. "How much money did you start with?" He suddenly looked guarded. But he was still amazingly mellow, for Clark, so I pushed ahead. I said, "Look, if I know you, you can't get all your fun out of it unless somebody knows, and you're safer telling me than anyone else. Because I've never told on you yet. Now have I?" He admitted that this was true by not answering. It is true. When he was small enough, I used to clip him one occasionally. But I never tattled on him. Lately clipping him has become entirely too dangerous; he can give me a fat lip quicker than I can give him one. But I've never tattled on him. "Loosen up," I urged him. "I'm the only one you dare boast to. How much were you paid to sneak those three kilos into the Tricorn in my baggage?" He looked very smug. "Enough." "Okay, I won't pry any further about that. But what was it you smuggled? You've had me utterly baffled." "You would have found it if you hadn't been so silly anxious to explore the ship. Poddy, you're stupid. You know that, don't you? You're as predictable as the law of gravity. I can Ob: ays outguess you." I didn't get mad. If Clark gets you sore, he's got you. "Guess maybe," I admitted. "Are you going to tell me what it was? Not happy dust, I hope?" "Oh, no!" he said and looked shocked. "You know what they do to you for happy dust around here? They turn you over to natives who are hopped up with it, that's what they do -- and then they don't even have to bother to cremate you." I shuddered and returned to the subject. "Going to tell me?" "Mmm..." "I swear by Saint Podkayne Not to Tell." This is my own private oath, nobody else would or could use it. "Better not," he warned me. "You won't like it." "By Saint Podkayne!" (and I should have kept my lip zipped.) "Okay," he said. "But you swore it. A bomb." "A what?" "Oh, not much of a bomb. Just a little squeezer job. Total destruction not more than a kilometer. Nothing much." To Be Concluded i ' k k'kt'k'k'k ickick' kk'kkkkkkkkk'ktrk'k'ktkk ' k'k'k'k'ki'Akkkkk kkkkkkrW  K K  Kr( K K K r 't(  K K  K In the First Issue -- People of the Sea by Arthur C. Clarke Third Planet by Murray Leinster To See The Invisible Man by Robert Silverberg The Long Remembered Thunder by Keith Laumer -- and many more in this big first issue. IF # Short Story by David Mason T he highway stretched away in ruler-straight perspective toward both horizon's, black and shining in the sun like a river of ink. Beside it, the bright pastel buildings of Rest Stop # stood among the green trees. Occasionally a car shot past, a flash of metal and a hiss of split wind; but the road was one which was used more often at night, and was nearly empty in the afternoon. Sam was the only attendant on duty. Stop # needed only two human attendants, even at its busiest hours. He  sat, staring out at the highway, his elbows on the lunch counter, his round face blank, but his mouth set tightly. The phone at his elbow emitted a small grunting noise. "You still there?" the phone voice said inquiringly. It was like any other car on the road. It was automatic, self-contained -- and eternal! "Yeah." Sam said, still staring at the highway. "Well... " The voice paused. "Look, it might not come your way. It usually turns west at the New Britain intersection." "Not always." Sam said. "It went by here once before." "It almost never stops, anyway," the voice said firmly. "It won't stop." "Some times it does," Sam said. "It doesn't have to." Sam shrugged and said nothing. "Okay, then," the voice said. "I called you about it, anyway." "Thanks." Sam turned away, still watching the road. Far off a speck of metal gleamed, growing larger. The distant high sound of brakes began, as a car decelerated, coming toward the Stop. It was just an ordinary car, Sam told himself. That other car was still hundreds of miles away. But his hands were damp as he watched it grow larger. It was an ordinary Talman sedan, with two people in it. It swung into the Stop's parking area, and its doors slid open smoothly. A small red light flashed on its arched front. The repair signal. In response the doors of the Repair shop opened. The Talman waited, as a man and a woman emerged from its padded interior and moved slowly into the Repair shop. The doors closed behind it. The couple came toward the restaurant, where Sam stood waiting. "Hi," the man said to Sam. "Afternoon." Sam moved to the counter. "Something to eat while you're waiting, folks?" The tall, dark girl glanced out at the closed doors of the Repair shop. "How long's that car going to take?" she asked in a tired voice. "I wanted to get home tonight." "Not long," Sam said. "It didn't look like anything complicated." "How can you tell?" the man asked, sitting down. "It could take all night." "Like something to eat while you're waiting?" Sam asked. The woman stared at the lunch racks critically. "I never like these places to eat in," the woman said, curling her lip. "You never know how long the food's been stored in the robot." "Oh, hell, Grace," the man said wearily. To Sam he gave an apologetic shrug. "Just coffee." "Well, you don't know," the woman insisted. "I mean..." She watched Sam drawing the coffee into a cup. "I used to cook a lot, by hand, till Jack had the autokitchen put in. He never had any stomach trouble till then. It's getting so everything's... oh, I don't know. It's all out of reach. You don't know what's happening any more. Like the car." "I wish I knew what she's talking about half the time." Jack said, blowing on his coffee. Sam leaned on the counter, looking past the couple toward the empty road. "I know what the lady means," Sam said, almost to himself. "You get to thinking... well, I can remember when people used to drive their own cars. Themselves. Steering and everything, except on the biggest highways. And everything got done with people. People made things, and cooked food, and grew plants. Everybody was busy all the time. It was better then." The man called Jack shrugged. "Sure, sure. Everybody always talks about the good old days. But I don't see many of 'em going to live in the woods. Like Grace -- she says she doesn't like the autokitchen, but she uses it." "It saves time," Grace said. I guess I will have coffee, too, mister." "It saves time, she says," Jack said. "For what? She's got too much time now." "I wonder what it must have been like in the old days, here," Grace said vaguely, staring around the lunchroom. "Everybody running in and out. All the drivers -- trucks, with men in them, the way you read about it in the historical novels. Men that drove their own cars, in all kinds of weather... gee." "Just like on TV," Sam said, grinning. "I hope we get the car out of there pretty soon," Jack said anxiously. He glanced out toward the silent garage. "I always wonder what would happen if the machinery stuck, or something. How would you ever get your car out?" "It doesn't get stuck," Sam said. A peculiar look crossed his face as he added, "Not any more." "Did it ever?" Sam shrugged. "Oh, well, you know twenty or thirty years ago all this automatic stuff wasn't quite so good as it is now. Cars, repair shops... things went wrong, sometimes. Like... like the Traveler." "The Traveler?" The woman looked up. "Oh, that's just a ghost story. Like the Flying Dutchman. Isn't it?" The lunchroom was completely silent. Sam was no longer paying any attention to the couple sitting at the counter. He was close to the big window, standing stiffly, feet apart, like an admiral on a ship's bridge, his eyes studying the empty horizon. There, where the lines of the road met with the precision of a drawing-board exercise in perspective, he thought he saw a fleck of light. "It isn't when it goes past," Sam said, in a quiet tight voice. He talked at the window, his back to the other two, his words meant mostly for himself. "It's not its going by. That doesn't bother me," he repeated. "It came by my old place five or six times, I remember. That's why I finally asked to be transferred out here, where it hardly ever goes by. But I could have gotten used to it. I mean, you don't have to look at it, or anything. It's just another car. Old, sure, but there's no difference. A car goes by, that's all. Only..." "You mean it's real?" the woman asked, in a low voice. Her husband's eyes were looking out, toward the empty road, following Sam's look. "The Traveler," he said, without looking at his wife. "Sure, it's real. Why'd you think they don't make that model of car any more? It's real. I knew somebody who saw it, once." "There might even be two or three Travelers," Sam said, watching the distant glitter of light. There was certainly a car coming. Just a car... although it was still too far away to tell for sure. "A haunted car!" the woman said, her eyes wider. "Gee!" "It isn't a haunted car," her husband said. "It's just one of the earliest makes of automatic highway cars. Everything automatic, steering, destination set... just like any car is, nowadays. Only it wasn't quite perfect, somehow." "They got into their car," Sam said, his eyes picking out distant, microscopic details. The high flaring fins, the double headlamps...  lit up, although it was broad daylight on the road. He knew what the rest would be. It was moving so slowly. But it always moved slowly, barely thirty miles an hour. As if somebody wanted you to look and see... "They just got in, the way anybody would do," Sam said. "They set a destination, and the windows closed up, and the airconditioner went on, and the car went out on the road." "Only it never got there," the other man said. "Wherever it was going to go." "But..." the woman looked puzzled. "Wouldn't anybody stop it? I mean, wouldn't it run out of fuel, or... well, how did the people in it get out?" "It does just what any car does," her husband told her. "It gets fuel when it needs it. You can't just stop a robot control device. Not till it's good and ready." "But the people in it," she said. "They'd starve, or something..." The car called the Traveler, rolling at the stately thirty miles an hour it always held, was coming down the road now, and the two men stood, watching. The woman, a little behind them, watched too, her face growing whiter. No one said anything as the old fashioned car rolled by, straight and steady down the highway, holding the center of the lane as sharply as it always did. There was a film of dust inside the windows, though the Traveler was clean and shining outside. But the film did hide the white bone faces, the despairing hands that had long ago stopped trying to break through those closed windows. "They never did get out," the man named Jack said, as the Traveler rolled on, growing smaller along the endless road. "I don't mind it when it goes past," Sam said, his voice thinner edged. "I really don't. It's just a car. Things like that used to happen. I mean, it's a car. Even when it stops to get gas, I don't have to pay any attention." He looked at the couple, his mouth loose. "As long as it just goes on. That's all right. But I keep thinking some day it'll stop. And the door will open. And maybe... maybe they'll want lunch." He giggled uncontrollably, and then choked it back. Outside, the big hangar doors of the repair shop opened. The car that had been inside appeared; it moved out and stopped, its doors open invitingly. "Your car's ready now," Sam told the couple. "So long, folks.  ir    IF  Short Story by Fred Saherhagen Huge as an island, mighty as a squadron of dreadnaughts, old as time, the ship of the aliens was out to destroy them! T he machine was a vast fortress, containing no life, set by its long-dead masters to destroy anything that lived. It and a hundred like it were the inheritance of Earth from some war fought between unknown interstellar empires, in some time that could hardly be connected with any Earthly calendar. One such machine could hang over a planet colonized by men and in two days pound the surface into a lifeless cloud of dust and steam, a hundred miles deep. This particular machine had already done just that. It used no predictable tactics in its dedicated, unconscious war against life. The ancient, unknown gamesmen had built it as a random factor, to be loosed in the enemy's territory to do what damage it might. Men thought its plan of battle was chosen by the random disintegrations of atoms in a block of some longlived isotope buried deep inside it, and so was not even in theory predictable by opposing brains, human or electronic. Men called it a berserker. D el Murray, sometime computer specialist, had called it other names than that; but right now he was too busy to waste breath, as he moved in staggering lunges around the little cabin of his one-man fighter, plugging in replacement units for equipment damaged by the last near-miss of a small berserker missile. An animal resembling a large dog with an ape's forelegs moved about the cabin too, carrying in its nearly human hands a supply of emergency sealing patches. The cabin air was full of haze. Wherever movement of the haze showed a leak f # to an unpressurized part of the hull, the dog-ape moved to skillfully apply a patch. "Hello, Foxglove!" the man shouted, hoping his radio was again in working order. "Hello, Murray, this is Foxglove," said a sudden loud voice in the cabin. "How far did you get?" Del was too weary to show much relief that his communications were open again. "I'll let you know in a minute. At least it's stopped shooting at me for a while. Move, Newton." The alien animal, pet and ally, called an axyan , moved away from the man's feet and kept single-mindedly looking for leaks. After another minute's work Del could strap his body into the deepcushioned command chair again, with something like an operational panel before him. That last nearmiss had sprayed the whole cabin with fine penetrating splinters. It was remarkable that man and aiyan had come through unwounded. His radar working again, Del could say: "I'm about ninety miles out from it. Foxglove. On the opposite side from you." His present position was what he had been trying to achieve since the battle had begun. The two Earth ships and the berserker were half a light year from the nearest sun. The berserker could not leap out of normal space, toward the defenseless colonies on the planets of that sun, while the two ships stayed close to it. There were only two men aboard Foxglove. Though they had more machinery working for them than did Del, both manned ships were mites compared to their opponent. If a berserker machine like this one, not much smaller in cross-section than New Jersey, had drifted in a century earlier and found men crowded on one planet, there could have been no real struggle and no human survivors. Now, though the impersonal enemy swarmed through the galaxy, men could rise up in a cloud to meet them. Del's radar showecl him an ancient ruin of metal, spread out for a hundred miles before him. Men had blown holes in it the size of Manhattan Island, and melted puddles of slag as big as lakes upon its surface. But the berserker's power was still enormous. So far no man had fought it and survived. Now, it could squash Del's little ship like a mosquito; it was wasting its unpredictable subtlety on him. Yet there was a special taste of terror in the very indifference of it. Men could never frighten this enemy, as it frightened them. Earth men's tactics, worked out from bitter experience against other berserkers, called for a simultaneous attack by three ships. Foxglove and Murray made two. A third was supposedly on the way, but still about eight hours distant, moving at Cplus velocity, outside of normal space and so out of communication with the others. Until it arrived, Foxglove and Murray must hold the berserker at bay, while it brooded unguessable schemes. It might attack either ship at any ' moment, or it might seek to disen: gage. It might wait hours for them to make the first move -- though it would certainly fight if the men attacked it. It had learned the language of Earth -- it might try to talk with them. But always, ultimately, it would seek to destroy them and every other living thing it met. That was the basic command given it by the ancient warlords. A thousand years ago, it would have easily swept ships of the type that now opposed it from its path, whether they carried fusion missiles or not. Now, it was no doubt in some electrical way conscious of its own weakening by accumulated damage. And perhaps in long centuries of fighting its way across the galaxy it had learned to be wary. N ow, quite suddenly, Del's detectors showed forcefields forming in behind his ship. Like the encircling arms of a great bear they blocked his path away from the enemy. He waited for some deadly blow, with his hand trembling over the red button that would salvo his atomic missiles at the berserker -- but if he attacked alone, or even with Foxglove, the infernal machine would parry their missiles, crush their ships and go on to destroy another helpless planet. Three ships were needed to attack. The red firing button was now only a last desperate resort. Del was reporting the forcefields to Foxglove when he felt the first hint in his mind of another attack. "Newton!" he called sharply, leaving the mike to Foxglove open. They would hear and understand what was going to happen. The aiyan bounded instantly from its combat couch to stand before Del as if hypnotized, all attention riveted on the man. Del sometimes bragged: "Show Newton a drawing of different colored lights, convince him it represents a particular control panel, and he'll push buttons or whatever you tell, him, until the real panel matches the drawing." But no aiyan had the human ability to learn and to create on an abstract level; which was why Del was now going to put Newton in command of his ship. He switched off the ship's computers -- they were going to be as useless as his own brain, under the attack he felt gathering -- and said to Newton: "Situation Zombie." The animal responded instantly as it had been trained, seizing Del's hands with firm insistence, and dragging them one at a time down beside the command chair to where the fetters had been installed. Hard experience had taught men something about the berserkers' mind weapon, although its principles of operation were still unknown. It was slow in its onslaught, and its effects could not be steadily maintained for more than about two hours, after which a berserker was evidently forced to turn it off for an equal time. But while in effect, it robbed any human or electronic brain of the ability to plan or to predict -- and left it unconscious of its own incapacity. It seemed to De) that all this had happened before, maybe more than once. Newton, that funny fellow, had gone too far with his pranks; he had abandoned the little boxes of colored beads that were his favorite toys, and was moving the controls around at the lighted panel. Unwilling to share the fun with Del, he had tied the man to his chair somehow. Such behavior was really intolerable, especially when there was supposed to be a battle in progress. Del tried to pull his hands free, and called to Newton. Newton whined earnestly and stayed at the panel. "Newt, you dog. Come, lemme loose. I know what I have to say: Four score and seven... hey, Newt, where're your toys? Lemme see your pretty beads." There were hundreds of tiny boxes of the varicolored beads, leftover trade goods that Newton loved to sort out and handle. Del peered around the cabin, chuckling a little at his own cleverness. He would get Newton distracted by the beads, and then... the vague idea faded into other crackbrained grotesqueries. Newton whined now and then but stayed at the panel moving controls in the long sequence he had been taught, taking the ship through the feinting, evasive maneuvers that might fool a berserker into thinking that it was still competently manned. Newton never put a hand near the big red button. Only if he felt deadly pain himself, or found a dead man in Del's chair, would he reach for that. "Ah, roger, Murray," said the radio from time to time, as if acknowledging a message. Sometimes Foxglove added a few words or numbers that might have meant something. Del wondered what the talking was about. At last he understood that Foxglove was trying to help maintain the illusion that there was still a competent brain in charge of Del's ship. The fear-reaction came when he began to realize that he had once again lived through the effect of the mind-weapon. The brooding berserker, half genius, half idiot, had forborne to press the attack when success would have been certain. Perhaps deceived, perhaps following the strategy that avoided predictability at almost any cost. "Newton." The animal turned, hearing a change in his voice. Now Del could say the words that would tell Newton it was safe to set his master free, a sequence too long for anyone under the mindweapon to recite. " -- shall not perish from the Earth," he finished. With a yelp of joy Newton pulled the fetters from Del's hands. Del turned instantly to the radio. # # Tj' ffect has evidently been turned ' off. Foxglove," said Del's voice through the speaker in the cabin of the larger ship. The Commander let out a sigh. "He's back in control!" The Second Officer -- there was no Third -- said: "That means we've got some kind of fighting chance, for the next two hours. I say let's attack now!" The Commander shook his head, slowly but without hesitation. "With two ships, we don't have any real chance. Less than four hours until Gizmo gets here. We have to stall until then, if we want to win." "It'll attack the next time it gets Del's mind scrambled! I don't think we fooled it for a minute... we're out of range of the mindbeam here, but Del can't withdraw now. And we can't expect that aiyan to fight his ship for him. We'll really have no chance, with Del gone." The Commander's eyes moved ceaselessly over his panel. "We'll wait. We can't be sure it'll attack within -- " The berserker spoke suddenly, its radioed voice plain in the cabins of both ships: "I have a proposition for you, little ship." Its voice had a cracking, adolescent quality, because it strung together words and syllables recorded from the voice of human prisoners of both sexes and different ages, from whom it had learned the language. There was no reason to think they had been kept alive after that. "Well?" Del's voice sounded tough and carpable by comparison. "I have invented a game which we will play," it said. "If you play well enough, I will not kill you right away." "Now I've heard everything," murmured the Second Officer. After three thoughtful seconds the Commander slammed a fist on the arm of his chair. "It means to test his learning ability, to run a continuous check on his brain while it turns up the power of the mindbeam and tries different modulations. If it can make sure the mindbeam is working, it'll attack instantly. I'll bet my life on it. That's the game it's playing this time." "I will think over your proposition," said Del's voice coolly. "Very well," answered the berserker. The Commander said: "It's in no hurry to start. It won't be able to turn on the mindbeam again for almost two hours." "But we need another two hours beyond that." Del's voice said: "Describe the game you want to play." "It is a simplified version of the human game called checkers." The Commander and the Second looked at each other, neither able to imagine Newton able to play checkers. Nor could they doubt that Newton's failure would kill them within a few hours, and leave another planet open to destruction. After a minute's silence, Del's voice asked: "What'll we use for a board?" "We will radio our moves to one another," said the berserker equably. It went on to describe a checkerslike game, played on a smaller board with less than the normal number of pieces. There was nothing very profound about it; but of course playing would seem to require a functional brain, human or electronic, able to plan and to predict "If I agree to play," said Del slowly, "how'll we decide who gets to move first?" "He's trying to stall," said the Commatjder, gnawing a thumbnail. "We won't be able to offer any ad vice, with that thing listening. Oh. stay sharp, Del boy!" "To simplify matters," said the berserker. "I will move first in every game." D el could look forward to another hour free of the mind-weapon when he finished rigging the checker board When the pegged pieces were moved, appropriate signals would be radioed to the berserker; lighted squares on the board would show him where its pieces were moved. If it spoke to him while the mindweapon was on. Del's voice would answer from a tape, which he had stocked with vaguely agressive phrases, such as: "Get on with the game " or "Do you want to give up now?" He hadn't told the enemy how far along he was with his preparations because he was still busy with something the enemy must not know -- the system that was going to enable Newton to play a game of simplified checkers Del gave a soundless little laugh as he worked, and glanced over to where Newton was lounging on his couch, clutching toys in his hands as it he drew some comfort from them. This scheme was going to push the aian near the limit of his ability, but Del saw no reason why it should fail Del had completely analyzed the miniature checker-game, and diagrammed every position that Newton could possibly face -- playing only even-numbered moves, thank the random berserker for that specification! -- on small cards. Del had discarded some lines of play that would lead from some poor early moves by Newton, further simplifying his job. Now, on, a card showing each possible remaining position, Del indicated the best possible move with a drawn-in arrow. Now he could quickly teach Newton to play the game by looking at the appropriate card and making the move shown by the arrow. The system was not perfect, but -- "Oh, oh," said Del, as his hands stopped working and he stared into space. Newton whined at the tone in his voice. Once Dal had sat at one board in a simultaneous chess exhibition, one of sixty players opposing the world champion, Blankenship. Del had held his own into the middle game. Then, when the great man paused again opposite his board, Del had shoved a pawn forward, thinking he had reached an unassailable position and could begin a counterattack. Blankenship had moved a rook to an innocent-looking square and strolled on to the next board -- and then Del had seen the checkmate coming at him, four moves away but one move too late for him to do anything about it. T he Commander suddenly said a foul phrase in a loud distinct voice. Such conduct was extremely rare, and the Second Officer looked around in surprise. "What?" "I think we've had it." The Commander paused. "I hoped that Murray could set up some kind of system over there, so that Newton could play the game -- or appear to be playing it. But it won't work. Whatever system Newton plays by rote will always have him thinking the same move in the same position. It may be a perfect system -- but a man doesn't play any game that way, damn it. He makes mistakes, he changes strategy. Even in a game this simple there'll be room for that. Most of all, a man learns a game as he plays it He gets better as he goes along. That's what'll give Newton away, and that's what our bandit wants. It's probably heard about aiyans. Now as soon as it can be sure it's facing a dumb animal over there, and not a man or computer." After a little while the Second Officer said: "I'm getting signals of their moves. They've begun play. Maybe we should've rigged up a board so we could follow along with the game." "We better just be ready to go at it when the time comes." The Commander looked hopelessly at his salvo button, and then at the clock that showed two hours must pass before Gizmo could reasonably be hoped for. Soon the Second Officer said: "That seems to be the end of the first game; Del lost it, if I'm reading their scoreboard signal right." He paused. "Sir, here's that signal we picked up the last time it turned the mindbeam on. Del must be starting to get it again." There was nothing for the Commander to say. The two men waited silently for the enemy's attack, hoping only that they could damage it in the seconds before it would overwhelm them and kill them. "He's playing the second game," said the Second Officer, puzzled. "And I just heard him say 'Let's get on with it.'" "His voice could be recorded. He must have made some plan of play for Newton to follow; but it won't fool the berserker for long. It can't." Time crept unmeasurably past them. The Second said: "He's lost the first four games. But he's not making the same moves every time. I wish we'd made a board..." "Shut up about the board I We'd be watching it instead of the panel. Now stay alert, Mister." After what seemed a long time, the Second said: "Well, I'll be!" "What?" "Our side got a draw in that game." "Then the beam can't be on him. Are you sure..." "It is! Look, here, the same indication we got last time. It's been on him the better part of an hour now, and getting stronger." The Commander stared in disbelief; but he knew and trusted his Second's ability. And the panel indications were convincing. He said: "Then someone -- or something -- with no functioning mind is learning how to play a game, over there. Ha, ha," he added, as if trying to remember how to laugh. T ie berserker won another game Another draw. Another win tor the enemy. Then three drawn games In a row. Once the Second Officer heard Del's voice ask coolly: "Do you want to give up now?" On the next move he lost another game. But the following game ended in another draw. Del was plainly taking more time than his opponent to move, but not enough to make the enemy impatient. "It's trying different modulations on the mindbeam," said the Second. "And it's got the power turned way up." "Yeah," said the Commander. Several times he had almost tried to radio Del, to say something that might keep the man's spirits up -- and also to relieve his own feverish inactivity, and try to find out what could possibly be happening now. But be could not take the chance. Any interference might upset the miracle. He could not believe the inexplicable success could last, even when the checker match turned gradually into an endless succession of drawn games between two perfect players. Hours ago the Commander had said good-by to life and hope, and he stiir waited for the fatal moment. And he waited. " -- not perish from the Earth!" said Del Murray, and Newton's eager hands flew to loose his right arm from its shackle. A game, unfinished on the little board before him, had been abandoned seconds earlier. The mindbeam had been turned off at the same time, when Gizmo had burst into normal space right in position and only five minutes late; and the berserker had been forced to turn all its energies to meet the immediate all-out attack of Gizmo and Foxglove. Del saw his computers, recovering from the effect of the beam, lock his aiming screen onto the berserker's scarred and bulging midsection, as he shot his right arm forward, scattering pieces from the game board. "Checkmate!" he roared out hoarsely, and brought his fist down on the big red button. # #Tm glad it didn't want to play I chess," Del said later, talking to Commander in Foxglove's cabin. "I could never have rigged that up." The ports were cleared now, and the men could look out at the cloud of expanding gas, still faintly luminous, that had been a berserker; metal firepurged of the legacy of ancient evil. But the Commander was watching Del. "You got Newt to play by following diagrams, I see that. But how could he learn the game?" Del grinned. "He couldn't. But his toys could. Now wait before you slug me." He called the aiyan to him and took a small box from the animal's hand. The box rattled faintly as he held it up. On the cover was pasted a diagram of one possible position in the simplified checker game, with a different-colored arrow indicating each possible move of Del's pieces." "It took a couple hundred of these boxes," said Del. "This one was in the group that Newt examined for the fourth move. When he found a box with a diagram matching the position on the board, he picked the box up, pulled out one of these beads from inside, without looking -- that was the hardest part to teach him in a hurry, by the way," said Del, demonstrating. "Ah, this one's blue. That means, make the move indicated on the corner by a blue arrow. Now the orange arrow leads to a poor position. See?" Del shook all the beads out of the box into his hand. "No orange beads left; there were six of each color when we started. But every time Newton drew a bead, he had orders to leave it out of the box until the game was over. Then, if the scoreboard indicated a loss for our side, he went back and threw away all the beads he had used. All the bad moves were gradually eliminated. In a few hours, Newt and his boxes learned to play the game perfectly." "Well," said the Commander. He thought for a moment, then reached down to scratch Newton behind the ears. "I never would have come up with that idea." "I should have thought of if sooner. The basic idea's a couple of centuries old. And computers are supposed to be my business." "This could be a big thing," said the commander. "I mean your basic idea might be useful to any task force that has to face a berserker's mindbeam." "Yeah." Del grew reflective. "Also..." "What?" "I was thinking of a guy I met once. Named Blankenship. I wonder if I could rig something up... " to # -- # issues. # LY # to # -- # tssues. # # to # -- #I issues. # elettes and shorts (most unavailable otherwise) taken from All-Story. Argosy, Blue Book, Cosmopolitan, etc., going back to the #s; authors Include Burroughs, Taine, Kline, England, Rousseau, Leinster, Gardner, Merritt. Smith, Cook and others. All # volumes # Single volume  # #I #th Ave. Brooklyn #, N.T.      IF  Novelette of the By Gary Wright illustrated by Giunta Sail down the wind, Kali! Victory waits across the seas -- and so does death! J ohn Ward, God Helper, hung in his chair like a damp, empty uniform. An open, four-foot port showed a circle of blazing blue sky and a regular glimpse of a high, curving topsail. The humid, hot salty flavor of a strange sea blanketed the cabin, and sparked a sudden thought: "What the hell am I doing here?" There was no prompt answer. The wind rushed and moaned. The roiling water crashed and hissed under the stern. The following ship heaved its topsail into sight again, and withdrew it. A lilting chant drifted like smoke on the wind. We .ride the wind down like sleek, skimming birds. The seething foam furrows follow true . The sky is clouded with our singing sails. We ride the wind down , down the wind . He was Comet Colonel John Ward, Terran Confederation, Earth; he was certain of that. Age? Fortytwo, more or less. Specialty? Historical Naval Tactician. If you had to call it something you might as well call it that. Hobby? Sailing. But, God, Snipes and Lightnings aren't ships-of-the-line! Reading? Well... lyric poetry and ancient history, if you must know. Present Occupation? God Helper. No, call that Commander Advisor to the Kali, Aqua. Future? Oh, hell-yes; right up the... Wide shouldered, wave exploding, trim twin-hulled we come . First , the sky tall , fine firstliners. Then the seconds, flanking fast. Lean and level slide the frigates. All around us flash the corvettes. Ride the wind down, Kali seamen, down the wind to AndeKe. Six months ago he had a future all outlined, but six months ago he was a shining God Helper, come in glory. Now he was simply a God Helper, and sometimes oot even that. We are the Kali The fortunate ones. Yes ! Heirs to our wind and water world. Like our ships we are tall and proud. Like our wind we are wild and restless. Like our sea we are strong and savage. This is our world , wide and lonely. Ride the wind down , Kali brothers , down the wind to Anda Ke. S ix months on this barely discovered, one per cent land area, behind-the-galaxy planet, with piercing Conferedation insight: Aqua. Where the land was scattered about like pepper on an egg, and even the wind tried to run backwards Down the wind at Anda-Ke -- there is trouble. There we meet the stupid Grim nal. There the challenging, groveling Grimnal. He wilt plead for his wives and children. Ana, as proper Kali seamen , We will keep them soft and happy. After, we send their men away , Under the hungry gray-green water; Under the wind as we ride the wind down , down the wind to victory. And here he still was, trying to show some life-loving, song-singing, battle-mad, contrary-thinking, conceived of leather and salt spray fivefoot humanoids how to fight a sea war. And that was really quite a joke. The Kali and the Grimnal had been at this for a hundred years, and doing quite well. They were in no danger of getting overpopulated for one thing, and had evolved a dual power political system over the entire planet before the invention of an explosive. But now, being newly discovered by bigger and better dual powers. they were being shown how to fight in a bigger and better way. Only the Grimnal seemed to be learning, however. Oh, the Kali listened, and even followed directions, but they seemed incapable of understanding that slamming two corvettes upwind into the guns of eight firstliners was simply not good military tactics. They had a game. Something like Tag in reverse. One man was It, and everyone on ship tried to catch him. He could go anywhere, do anything, even cut the rigging as long as it didn't endanger the ship. The more daring he. was, the better. Ward had watched one make a hundred and fifty foot dive from a skysail yard with the ship making about twenty knots in a heavy sea. How do you go about explaining caution to a people like that? B ut he had to. Somehow. Since the big boys had taken sides the Kali had been losing. Or, more accurately, Ward had been losing. Alt the Gods are busy Beings . We know. But even They have noticed now , Ward's wandering mind snapped back. This was a new verse. And sent a sky man down to help us; Sent a Helper down to lead us. But the ways of Gods are strange. The Grimnal leaps from isle to island , While the Kali stand and watch him. While the Gods and Helpers falter. Ride the wind down , Kali brothers. At Anda-Ke we stand the test. A polite cough from behind reminded him that Captain Tahn was still in the cabin. The Kali coughed to express anything from rage to sheer joy, and this one probably meant that Ward's hearing the last verse was an accident. Ward swung around and glanced at him, but the Kali deliberately kept his slitted eyes on the chart before him. Ward was reminded again of the Kali likeness to the long vanished American Indian: black, straight hair; narrowed, snapping black eyes; high, angular cheek bones. But not much beyond that. If you took a fine featured Sioux of long ago... shortened him about a foot, thinned him down -- bones and all, raised his shoulders to a perpetual shrug, stretched his arms so that they still reached his hips, then starved him for a month...you might be close. But if you took a picture of him then, and looked at it slightly sideways, you would almost have it. An extremely thin, short, shrugging strip of muscled rawhide. Tahn coughed again; the your-attention-please cough. He swung a chart around for Ward to see. It was a rough drawing of Anda-Ke, the largest of the Grimnal Group, and more or less the home island. It looked somewhat like a startled elephant: mouth open, trunk arced out at an angle. The mouth was Anda Bay, and was guarded by Anda Passage where the lower lip came within two miles of the upper. The trunk was Pelo Head, and was broken about halfway down by Pelo Break. The area between the drooping trunk and the neck was the Grimnal Sea. It was into this that the Kali fleet was charging like a peanut sailing for the mouth. Tahn tapped a pencil-like finger at the rearmost reach of Anda Bay. "nphere," he said, in the Kali-Con-L federation mixture they found to be the shortest distance between two cultures. "Anchored there like marks on a sail. Feeling so safe in their home. Thinking we do not dare come after them. Grimnal rafts just waiting to go to the bottom." "And the gliders?" Ward asked. "Are they returned? We have no information but the tales of two natives." Tahn glanced at a water trickling, time-measuring device hanging from the overhead. "Soon the gliders return, but... " He shrugged, somehow. "And those are not rafts," Ward went on. "The natives said three, two and single gun rows. That means first and second-liners, frigates and probably corvettes. And they said 'many,' which means anywhere from fifty to two hundred." Tahn coughed his agreement. "But with Grimnal stupidity," he said, "they can do no more than run around in terror as we shell the city and fire their ships We have this won." Ward looked down at his hands, oaught a deep breath, and continued. "I have said before. We are not fighting just the Grimnal. We are fighting God Helpers too. Men like myself have come to help the Grimnal." He caught Than's flickering glance and added quickly, "Men who are probably better fighters than I am." Tahn coughed and leaned his head sideways, fairly equivalent to a casual 'so what?' "False Gods. False Helpers," he said. Ward held his breath and swung back to face the port. Great, sizzling Hell! He wondered if his opposite with the Grimnal had such problems. Probably not. Problems weren't allowed in the United Peace Worlds. And with the Grimnal preference for island life over the sea, it apparently took little urging to make them want all the islands in the world "You realize," Ward said without turning, 'that they have probably known ot our coming for days." "Good." "And what would they still be doing at anchor?" Cough, cough. Probably meaning how the hell should I know? II I t only they didn't have this towering independency and conceit, Ward thought They used to fight as individual ships Then chev weren't the least surprised it a lonely frigate was blown to splinters by aD overwhelming Grimnal force. In fact, it was a thing of joy and beauty forever. It was only by the very fiercest thundering had he gotten this fleet together under Tahn, and only Tahn's high position had kept it together. And God only knew how much longer it would hold together. The Grimnal had shown remarkable organization. Ward had pointed that out, and that was a gross mistake The Kali wanted nothing to do with what the Grimnal did. A sharp rap sounded on the cabin door and a Kali slipped in. He made the casual motion that could be a salute, a greeting or a wave good-by, depending on circumstances. "Two gliders return," he said happily. "In the bay are two first-liners, four second-liners, five frigates and some corvettes. All at anchor. Just waiting for us." Ward nodded. "How many corvettes?" The Kali's face wrinkled in dismay. "Fifty-six," he said softly. Ward smiled to himself, and ran the Kali fleet by in his mind. Eighteen first-liners mounting a hundred-twenty guns apiece. Eleven secondliners mounting eighty to ninety guns. Twenty-four frigates mounting fifty to sixty guns. Fiftytwo corvettes mounting ten to twenty guns A strong force, but not as strong as the Grimnal potential. Firmly, he said: "We will run down almost to Anda Passage -- then wait." The Kali glanced at each other. Tahn coughed "Not to go in?" "No!" "Why?" Ward took a deep breath and told himself to stay calm. "We know there are land guns along the Passage. We know that even without them three first-liners could hold it against anything. We know that those ships in the bay are not the whole fleet. Where are the rest?" Double cough. Double head bob. Two helpless expressions. "We outnumber," Tahn said hopefully. Ward muffled a smile. At least they were learning something. "We cannot go in, Tahn. It's a trap." Tahn was quiet, his whole body slowly coming to what Ward knew was hurt pride and anger. "Then we wait?" "We wait." Tahn was nearly rigid, his voice fighting its cage of control. "We wait like before?" I t was Ward's turn to let a tingling moment pass. This was the first overt mention of his past actions. He must walk softly. Kali temper was like nitroglycerine; one touch the wrong way... "We wait only to learn of the other Grimnal ships," he said evenly. "We let them make the first move in order to see what they are doing. Then we strike -- hard!" After a long, breathless moment, Tahn coughed. It was one that Ward never heard before, but judging by sound, it was not meant to be pleasant. Ward stood up, stared directly at Tahn and said quietly "I charge you with honesty, Tahn." It was a serious phrase. Tahn made the equivalent of a nod. "There is much talk," he began, his voice higher pitched. "We ask ourselves why we do not fight. The Grimnal takes many islands; land that is ours. He does not defeat us, but we do not stop him. We wait as you tell us. We wait and see our islands lost. "The Kali are ashamed, and the Grimnal laughs. We cannot go home and face our women and children. "You come to show us how to fight, you say. But we do not fight. We wait. You tell us things that will make us win, but we do not fight. We wait. You hold us back. We ask ourselves why." He straightened, obviously grabbing a big piece of Kali courage. "There is an answer why. Perhaps you help other Gods than ours. Or -- perhaps you are afraicf." There it was. Stark and ugly. Ward looked at Tahn for a long time, then straightened to his full five-eleven. "As a God Helper I am charged with honesty at all times," he said, and let it sink in for a second. "I see many more things than the surface of the sea and the direction of the wind. What I do for the Kali is for the good of theKali. If you follow me, you go to victory. If you do not follow, you go to the bottom." The Kali glared with glittering eyes. Tahn's cough was a bark. "Perhaps some will follow." Their parting salute was crisp as they spun and left. Ward eased himself back to the chair and stared at the door. This was the ragged edge. They fight the one coming, or else... And if they lost it, the Confederation could mark off the Kali, John Ward and the planet. He remembered all too clearly the other engagements, if you would call them that. And he remembered too the disappointment, chagrin and outright anger of the Kali, and his own frustration. E ngagement One: Taley Point. They had surprised a small Grimnal force close in to shore on the leeward side. After trading shots at extreme range. Ward gave the order to withdraw. Reasons? Shallows, reefs, a raising wind, and nightfall The Grimnal was gone in the morning. The Kali had been stunned. It was the first time they had ever withdrawn with whole ships. Engagement Two: Gola Island. They had chased a smaller force into port, but Ward had held off because of intense shore fire. The Kali did not sing for three days. Engagement Three: Bari Sea. They were closing with a nearly equal force, yet out of range, when a large wind devil, one of the freak, contrary winds, had slashed across both fleets; shredding sails, splintering masts, effectively crippling both forces. Ward gave the order to heave to and repair damages, as the Grimnal did the same. The Kali were astonished. Such a thought was madness with the enemy in sight. But they followed orders, and did not smile when he appeared any more, ' Engagement Four: Darel Sea. (Oh, the Darel Sea!) They were closing at glider range when a lucky Grimnal had sneaked in and managed to fire bomb a first-liner. Without that ship they were greatly outgunned and, leaving a frigate to take off the crew, they slipped off downwind. It was a near rebellion, but Tahn had held them. Then the wind came up, bringing the Grimnal force with it. And both the frigate and the burning first went down fighting. The Kali had cried, probably, Ward thought, more in admiration than in sadness. And now, as a result of a vote of ships' captains, they were headed straight for the GrimnaFs heart; and Ward wondered if he was anything more than a passenger. He knew he had been tactically right in each case, but the Kali knew he was morally wrong. So who had it, the head or the heart? And what about this thing of being afraid? That hurt. He didn't believe he was afraid. Honestly, he really couldn't say. He had, as a fact, never fought a battle in his life. H e used to play a game in the scouts. What did they call it? Capture the Flag, or something like that. Each side had a hidden flag and the other tried to get it. He was always the planner. How'll we do it, John? And he would tell them, and keep away from the rough stuff, and they nearly always won. But violence fascinated him as a spectator. Later his reading took him in that direction, and later still his studies. In the middle of his life he found he was one of the leading historical naval tacticians in the world. He started writing historical novels, under a pseudonym, of course, and soon became the world's authority. Then someone blundered into Aqua. For a couple hundred years the Terran Confederation and the United Peace Worlds had been at war. Not an open, honest, stand-up-and get-it war; but an undercover, half ignored, let'sgetthe kids to-fight war. A galaxywide game, played for planets, using local cultures. And always according to the rules. No new technologies. No new weapons. Use what you have at hand. Play it fair. Because if you do not, neither will we -- and together we will eliminate the universe. Aqua was a natural. It had a war already underway. Deep in the secretmost catacombs of Confederation Central a voice said: "Find a man who knows ancient naval tactics. Find a man who knows sailing. Find a man who knows combustion firearms. Find a man. Now!" And the order went rattle-rattle, click-click, wink, blink... and reached out and touched Doctor John Ward. Although Colonel Ward's training had filled three straight days, there was one thing they forgot to tell him -- what do you think about, really, when someone fires a cannon in your face? A knock came at the door. Ward rubbed his face back into an expression of awareness. "Come." Tahn entered briskly and strode to the opposite side of the table. His eyes held a level, challenging look. "Gliders say there are Grimnal coming up behind us along the coast. About -- uh -- two hours distant." "How many?" "There are four firsts, five seconds, twelve frigates and some corvettes." Ward patiently tapped the table. "How many corvettes?" "Twenty-three." Ward was thoughtful for a moment. "We still have them. But it still is not their whole force." "We hit them?" I'd better answer this one right, he told himself. They were now just below Pelo Break, about two hours from the Passage. There was about an hour of daylight left: "After the sun dies," he said, avoiding the word "wait," "we will swing to meet this new force. If the wind holds straight and steady, we will come across to them like sharks in the night." "Sharks?" Ward grinned. "A very savage deep sea fish of my world." Tahn relaxed, and a twisted smile came over his narrow face. "It will be a short fight," he said softly. m A qua's sizzling sun was getting hazy as it settled behind lower Pelo Head, outlining the violent peaks like teeth in some savage jaw. Ward stood on the bridge of the first-liner, Bad Weather , and watched the fleet and the late returning gliders. He never failed to marvel at these ships -- sleek, sea-flying catamarans, steady, tall and wonderously beautiful. Their twin hulls skimmed the seas with hardly a roll. Their speed was something you had to feel to believe. He watched the second-liner. South Bird , come around to catch her glider. Both soaring upwind, they aimed for an intersection. As they drew closer, two long booms with netting between were extended over the stern. Slowly they angled together. When it appeared that the glider would crash the bridge it pulled up, stalled and fell softly into the net. He never failed to exhale a long breath after such a landing -- catching, rather. Launching was even more spectacular. The ship raced out on fast beam reach with its glider poised upwind on its two poles. Then a streaking corvette hissed up under the stern, swung slightly upwind, caught the braided stretch-line and actually yanked the glider aloft. Ward was quite sure it was something he never wanted to try The Bad Weather was coming around now. He caught the white flash of her glider high downwind. Tahn came to stand by him, his quick, cat-like motions betraying his eagerness "They bring more news," he grinned. "The Grimnal in Anda Bay is starting to raise sail." Ward frowned. "They think to trap us between them Perhaps they expect us to race into the Passage after dark " Tahn coughed his pleased cough. "But our -- uh -- tactics, is it? They are to keep out of the Passage?" Ward smiled. "For now We fight them as two separate fights, not as one We will overwhelm each in turn."  Tahn's cough was one of agreement. "Yes," he breathed "Just as long as we fight " They turned to watch the glider make its long floating approach It had dumped its spoilers and was losing altitude, when it suddenly climbed impossibly fast, spun completely around and exploded in a hundred pieces. T ahn leaped to the rail, stared, then keened the Kali howl of alarm. Ward squinted downwind in puzzlement, then saw it -- the seething, wild slice of a wind devil arcing toward the fleet. Curling, lashing, faster than any ship, it bore down xn them in a track of boiling foam. Other ships took up the cry. Knives flashed as sheets were cut and sails crashed down. Seamen ran aloft to furl the wild cloth. Some of the leading corvettes tried to turn and run out of the way, but the wind was too fast. A corvette suddenly lifted her bows, flipped over backwards and slammed down like a thrown stone. A frigate lost her sails and masts in less than two seconds. Another corvette rose sideways on one hull, spun and broke in two. The wind shriek became deafening. Another frigate lost its masts, lifted on its stern and fell back in an explosion of water. The first-liner, Thunder , lost its masts and rigging, put its bows down as if stepped on, spun a full ninety degrees and finally relaxed. A corvette went tumbling end over end into the side of a second liner, which immediately lost its masts and half its bridge. A corvette went streaking out of the fleet at blinding speed, one hull hiked entirely out of the water, and disappeared in a wall, of spray. It was abruptly silent. The foaming wind track left the fleet and slashed toward the open sea With a soft flutter, then a breeze, the westerly quietly resumed its "How slow?" push. The Kali appeared on deck again and slowly gazed about them. And the fleet lay dead in the water. Ships lay heading in all directions. Wreckage, lines and bits of sail littered the water. A frigate lay listed hard over. Damage reports were coming in to the Bad Weather : the Thunder dismasted and leaking; another first dismasted; one second leaking badly, perhaps going down; three other seconds dismasted; one frigate sinking fast; two more dismasted and leaking; two more dismasted; six corvettes lost; four dismasted and damaged. Tahn was grim as he scratched marks on a slate. Twenty-one ships out of action in less than a minute. Ward cursed and slammed the rail. Damned planet! Damned Grimnal! Damned everything! Tahn coughed beside him. And damned coughing! "There is more news," Tahn said quietly. "We just fished out a glider flyer who had returned from cruising Pelo Head." Ward turned. There seemed to be a smile flickering on Tahn's swarthy face. "He says there is a great Grimnal force coming into the Break from the north. Sixteen firsts, eighteen seconds and ten frigates. There are no corvettes. Ward's whole body seemed to tighten. Thanks to a damned wind the trap was sprung. "Can they come through the Break?" he asked, more to stall for time thaiv gain information, lahn coughed three times. "It is a brave thing to do Even for Kali it would be brave. It is bad water in the Break. The wind goes up: the current comes down. It is slow, but it can be done." I U T ihn tilted his head, stared at where the slice of the Break was barely visible on the horizon, and shrugged, almost. "Maybe -- uh -- two hours. Maybe more." He coughed. "Maybe less." Ward glared at the crippled ships. "And they would try it at night? Tahn coughed assent. "There will be a good moon. I would try it." Damn. Forces from three sides that, united, would blow them right out of the water. They could meet any of them alone, but... "If we could slip south," he pdndered aloud, "we could -- " Tahn snarled, his face an unearthly mask in the dimming light. His breath whistled between his teeth. "You polastil" he hissed. Ward straightened and faced him. The Kali around froze in their tracks. Polasti was the foulest word in their language. "Kali have died in this water just now," Tahn was barely able to manage his voice. "They are down there right now. We will not run and disgrace them! We will stand here. We will put a wall of sails and guns around this spot, and if we die it will be in honor. We will run no more. We will run no moref He was trembling when he finished, and Ward expected a knife to make one final arc. It was impossible to try to explain. It was broken... That thought crashed through as a knife never could. It's over. The Grimnal will surround this pitiful fleet like a storm. Its over; we've lost the fight, the war and the planet. And I've done it. It's my baby. The thing seared him, roared through him, shook him -- and touched a secret place. A deep place where he stored his anger. All his past angers, big and little; covered stifled, caught and hidden. Old hurts, old dreams, old reproaches screamed and gibbered through him like a thousand ghosts and devils. They swamped the gentle man. They dragged him down and gagged him. And something else took his place -- something that had never been allowed to stand before. "You stupid bastards!" he roared, wheeling to face them all. "You God-forsaken fools! A Grimnal baby is a greater fighter than your bravest man. Look what he has done to you. Look! Like blind animals you have been led into a trap. You have been put in a cage of your own ignorance. You call me polasti! I am the only one who can show you how to win. The only thing you know is to bunch together and be killed like animals at slaughter. You stand together in one tight group to make it easy for him. You know how it will be? Look!" He sprang to the glass globe that held the magnetized needle, seized it and hurled it to the deck. It exploded like .a small bomb. The Kali moved back. "That is what the Grimnal will do to you. Your bravery will be as that glass, nice to see -- but look at it now!" Water from the globe trickled slowly through the shattered glass. The chips winked red in the dying sun. Only the cry of the wind sounded through the ship. Ward forced his choking breath to an even rhythm. "Now go die like the fools you are." He left the quiet bridge and threaded his way to his cabin. Night was coming softly to the Grimnal Sea. I t was dark in the cabin when the knock sounded. There was no answer, and it came again. "Come," Ward said in a very tired, hollow voice. The door swung open and someone entered. After a long moment, Tahn's voice came softly in the dark. "No one has ever spoken to the Kali like that." Ward did not answer. "It is a brave man that can do that. And bravery is something we understand." There was a silent moment. Tahn coughed. "May I light the lamp?" Ward swung around in the chair. "Certainly." Flint flicked on steel, a spark glowed, caught, and light wavered in the cabin. The two faced each other, Ward sagged low in the chair, the Kali by the lamp. Tahn coughed again. "There is a way?" Ward let a moment pass. "There is a way to try." "Fighting?" "Yes, fighting." Tahn paused the barest second. "Tell me." IV T he frigate, Windsong, skimmed downward like a low, lean cloud. Behind her, vague in the dim moonlight, followed four more frigates and the skating corvettes. Before her, like a gate to hell, gaped the jagged mouth of Pelo Break. Ward leaned against the bridge rail beside Resi, the scarred and battered captain of Windsong. "Keep close to the eastern side," Ward said. "In the shadow of the cliffs, out of the moonlight." Resi spoke softly to the helmsman. and the Windsong eased into the shadow Ward turned and watched the following ships as, one by one, they slipped out of the moon and all but vanished. He swung back and squinted ahead. As far as he could see, high, broken cliffs reared straight from the water on both sides, angling together in the distance. There Tahn had said, they stood a scant two hundred yards apart, and the Break turned nearly sixty degrees to the west. That was the narrows. Ward turned to Resi, wondering if the old Kali fully understood the plan. "If we do not meet them before, we wait for them at the narrows." There was no acknowledgement that he could tell. Not even a cough. He doesn't like this, Ward thought. He relishes the fight coming, but not me. Despite Tahn's heated pep talk, I am a bad totem. But Tahn had accomplished one thing -- an honor promise from each ship's captain to follow orders. Ward knew they would, as long as everything went along with fighting, but the moment something went wrong He remembered Tahn's bark of surprise as the, plan unfolded Then the argument, and his own firm stand that he command this force. For this "was the crucial contact. The Key. If this tailed -- it all failed. He was sure that Tahn and the rest of the feverishly anxious Kali would more than whip their end. They were outnumbered, but had an overwhelming firepower edge. For the hundredth time he reviewed the thing, looking for the fatal flaw. One frigate for the crippled ships, which gave them quite a bit of firepower right there. Two firsts, four seconds, five frigates (the Storm Bird had gone down) and four corvettes. They were to make fast repairs, jury rig, then stand by in the shadow at the mouth of Pelo Break. If the Kali came back out -- fine; they would all rejoin Tahn. If not -- and the Grimnal came -- they were a last stand. Tahn had the main force of sixteen firsts, seven seconds and thirteen frigates. He was to intercept the Grimnal coming from behind. He would run their fleet through, come about, rake them again and run out to sea. He was to hit them hard enough to stop them, then make them believe he was running away. After any pursuit was discouraged he was to come downwind and fly for Anda Passage. If the timing was right, he would run right over the force from the bay, and with a little effort clear them off the water. "Then," Ward had added with a half smile, "you can shell the land guns in the Passage in your spare time. If the first Grimnal force comes limping in you shouldn't have any trouble." N o, Tahn wouldn't have any trouble. In the Kali's present mood they could probably do it with half their ships. But hell would be open in the Break tonight. Five slim frigates and forty-two tiny corvettes against sixteen firsts, eighteen seconds and ten frigates. Ship for ship; but what unbalanced firepower! Their advantage would be surprise, if nothing slipped, and maneuverability where the Grimnal ships would have their hands full just keeping clear of the cliffs. And this was the fulcrum. A sudden flare from the maindeck. "Cover that!" Resi snapped. Then to Ward, "They are cooking the liquor." Ward nodded. Apparently Resi had a good idea of what was expected. That was one good thing. The liquor, as they called it, was their explosive. A revolting, highly inflammable slime brewed of seaweed and fats. It was prepared in port, but had to be brought to a firing temperature on board. This was done by heating in large kettles and kept just below boiling. When a gun was to be fired, a certain measure of this soup was poured down the muzzle to a sizzling hot firing chamber, kept hot by a covered charcoal packing and quickly sealed by a lava-stone ball. It was the gunner's sense of timing then to know when the gun was ready, and slam the firing stud with a hammer. This slapped flint to steel inside the chamber -- and wham. But it was touchy. If the gunner swung too soon, nothing. If he waited too long, it fired itself. If the chamber was too cool, it would not fire at all; if' too hot, it might go the second the ball was rammed. A very delicate operation. And in the midst of battle -- with charcoal flying, hot shot coming in, glowing fires under the kettles and spilled hot liquor everywhere -- it was hard to see what kept a ship from blowing the whole battle apart. But that never happened. The liquor was easily diluted with water, and they went into battle with special water crews sloshing down the decks. And the stuff was fast. In the Gola Island fight, with fairly hot guns, they were loading, aiming and firing in about ten seconds. The Windsong eased along, the narrows loomed closer and Ward began to tighten. Any second heexpected the double bows of a Grimnal first-liner to slide into, sight, followed by another, and another, and another... He felt the urge to move about, to do anything as long as he was moving. He noticed the Kali were the same. They were as restless as the troubled waters of the Break -- lunging, hissing, swirling, rocking up and down. They were constantly at the rail relieving themselves, or rattling the dipper at the water barrel. And he could see the glint of their eyes as they threw quick glances in his direction. He caught Resi watching too, and moved away. T hey didn't trust him. They were waiting for him to call it off. They expected him to; probably wanting him to. He suddenly found he was quivering like a captured bird. He gripped the rail hard with both hands to stop. But it wouldn't stop. It galloped through him, ran him down and trampled him. And in panic he saw what it was. Fear. No simply the fear of failing. It was... God! The reality of it! This wasn't like reading a book or writing a story. This was going to be real shot and flame instead of words and paper. Real people were going to die, with their blood warm and sticky and horror in the eyes -- and he wouldn't be able to glance away to ponder it. It was going to roll from start to finish with the reality of Now and the surety of Death. It was going to flame as fights have flamed since something first snatched up a rock. And he was going to be right in the middle of it with these Kali, win or lose, live or die. And what was he doing here with these strange, alien Kali? He raised his head and glanced around. Resi was standing by the helmsman, talking with his deck lieutenant. Water splashed down on the maindeck; the water crews at work. There was a breathless quiet over the ship. He could see them standing like shadows, watching the curve of the narrows. The Spartans must have stood like that at the Pass of Thermopylae! And the Athenians on the Plains of Marathon. And the Americans at Bastogne. And men anywhere, any time before a battle. A single, whispering line from an old poem sang through him: Into the Valley of Death rode the six hundred. There was no alien here but himself. T 'he ominous walls of the narrows closed and filled the sky. Beyond the curve, some two miles up, the Grimnal ships were slowly beating upwind Suddenly, like a touch of fire to old ashes, he knew what he was doing here. A long imprisoned breath escaped from him, and a great sigh seemed to come from the whole ship. Resi turned. Ward could barely make out what must be a smile in that old Kali face. "We made it, ho?" "Just barely, by God. Have the ships string out as planned, with the lead frigate in the tip of the shadow where the Break turns into the moonlight. And be careful of noise. It will carry in here like a cannon shot." Resi coughed and was gone like a cat. The Windsong fell dead in the water. The others whispered past like ghosts. Voices called softly, and the small, shielded signal lights licked from ship to ship. And the Windsong was alone. Her bows swung out slightly to allow the foreguns a field of fire. Ward climbed down from the bridge, strode the water-slick maindeck and gained the foredeck. The gun crews turned, glanced at him, then turned back. He could not tell if they were smiling or not. So what. They would have plenty to smile at in a moment. The lead first-liner was about a mile now and keeping well to their side. Ward squinted at the point of the shadow, but there was no light flickering there that he could see. Damn! The Grimnal ship looked huge in the moonlight, and the Break behind it seemed filled with sails. It was nearly abreast of the shadow tip, still holding to their side, and the tiniest flicker of light danced in the shadow beside it. Ward grinned. David and Goliath. The giant first-liner started its slow turn on the very edge of the shadow, drifting into the dark until only its sails held the moon. The sails came around, fluttered and filled. The silent hulls came into sight. Ward let out a breath, echoed by Resi. The lead liner was well on its new tack The next was starting to edge into the shadows, and behind that was another, and another, and another. Resi muffled a cough. "You tell when?" he whispered. Ward nodded. "I'll tell when." The Grimnal rode closer, the crash of its bow waves sounding louder. Ship after ship was coasting past the hidden frigate. Ward's excitement grew to a pounding thing. They would be able to get them all in range. The sails towered over them. A hundred yards. Almost abreast; just at the narrowest point. Ward took a deep breath, and said quietly: "Now." R esi turned and hissed. Steaming liquor trickled down hungry cannon mouths. Lava balls were softly rammed home. Muzzles came down. Aimed. The gunners tensed, raised their hammers -- and swung. The night came apart. A crashing roar racketed through the Break. The walls blasted back the echo. The Windsong rocked and trembled. Smoke boiled into the moonlight and dimmed the Grimnal ship. And that was only a small sound. Over a mile of fire smashed from the shadow and for a quivering second, it seemed the world had exploded. Then came the thunder, and Ward flinched. Waterspouts climbed in the moonlight, Wreckage spun from the Grimnal ships. Holes splintered in their sides. The Windsong roared again; the bobbing corvettes answered. And a deafening, mind dulling thunder covered the break. And the Grimnal did not answer. The lightning flared steady now from the Kali line. Resi climbed halfway up the ratlines for a better look. And still the wounded giants had not answered. Grimnal were running in all directions on their decks. Resi let out a howl of sheer triumph. "They do not have their liquor cooked #" he cried, swinging ta the deck. "We have them with cold guns!" The Kali cheered, and the firing seemed to cease. Ward was shaking again, but for a different reason. "Hey, Resi," he bellowed. "Let's get in there closer." Sails snapped and the Windsong came alive. She seemed to leap into the moonlight. Then a corvette appeared beside her, and another, then two racing side by side into the smoke. And all the Kali were moving. The Windsong' s men were laughing like children, and the water crews had everything soaked halfway up the mainsails. What people! Ward laughed, ducking another bucketful. Resi slid to a halt beside him. "We fool them, ho? We fool them!' "Closer," Ward yelled. "Under their guns!" "But they are not firing." "Under their guns anyway," Ward laughed, and added to himself -- away boarders! A few scattered shots were coming from the Grimnal, ripping overhead. Ward stood a little taller. The Windsong came about, her starboard bow nearly slashing the looming first-liner Ward felt Resi's hand on his arm. "It was really you that fool them." Ward grinned foolishly. "But we whip them, ho?" Ward wanted to answer, but it was the starboard guns' turn to speak. IF  Short Story by Frank Banta T hose of the city of Featherton, on Grimes Planet, were with him to a man. Feathertonians cheered and waved from their windows thar morning, not daring to come out for tear of the whirlybirds. and admiring Five-gun Charles DeCrabbe all the more for riding down the main stem of the town with the bubble of his convertible space coupe slid back -- ignoring the menace from the skies. Five-gun Charles DeCrabbe rode down the exact center of the street, looking neither to right or left, not acknowledging the screams of adulation that poured from the windows. His bare head was up, his mouth Five-Gun DeCrabbe was the terror of every planet -- especially to his friends! was pressed into firm, haughty lines of self-confidence and even his battle dress of dark green seemed to exude the aura of a competent killer. Five-gun Charles DeCrabbe had come to clean up the town. Of whirlybirds. He stopped his space convertible in front of the white stone building titled City Hall on its facade. The two men waiting to greet him stayed safely under the bullet-shaped marquee as he alighted. He jumped over the side, checked his two holstered needle pistols, slung his explosive pellet rifle over one shoulder, his Nray flashburn gun over the other shoulder and picked up his rocketpowered stun-gas spray gun in his hands. He strode over to the waiting men. "I'm Alson Prince, Mayor of Featherton," said the older man shaking hands with the one DeCrabbe stuck out from under the spray gun. "And you are Five-gun Charles DeCrabbe?" "Yes yes yes!" exclaimed DeCrabbe impatiently in his clipped speech. "I'm the mayor's son," introduced the younger man with admiration shining in his eyes. "You sure look like you're ready to whip those whirlybirds." "Yes yes yes!" exclaimed DeCrabbe haughtily. "Always dislike long conversations you know. Supposing you tell me what you know so can exterminate them without further delay. No doubt solution before dusk." "Before dusk?" asked the mayor, dumfounded. "Oh, no, not today, I'm afraid. They've been around too many years to whip in one day." "Perhaps shall require two days then," said Five-gun Charles DeCrabbe graciously. "But doubt it. Tell me what you know of them." # # T Tery well," assented the older V man. "Perhaps the best place to begin is with their name. When we first occupied this planet, a bare twenty years ago, we called them wolfhawk-whirlybirds and tigerhawkwhirlybirds because they preyed on vicious animals. The whirlybirds were our best friends in those days. The only trouble is that they ran out of tigers and wolves to eat." "Presumed they are now called peoplehawk-whirlybirds?" DeCrabbe frowningly asked in his clipped speech. "Exactly!" answered the older man. "Although that isn't their full name. From the way they attack -- " "Most important," interrupted Five-gun. "Give to me in detail." "They prefer to attack strollers, although they have attacked on city streets when there is little traffic. They fly with amazing speed, considering they are an untidy ball forty feet in diameter, and they are on top of their victims before the unlucky ones are aware of the menace. Blowing their victims down with a rush of air from their feathers, they grab them up by the heels, carry them high aloft and drop them on piles of rock outside of town." "They are downdraftpeoplehawkwhirlybirds then?" asked DeCrabbe. "That's almost it," agreed the mayor. "I have not yet told you of their cries. As they rise in tne air with the victim dangling from their talons by his heels, they utter a pleases 'Coo! Coo! like a gentle dove. That is why they are called Coocoodowndraft-peoplehawk-whirlybirds." "Approve of adequate names," nodded Five-gun, unbending a trifle. "First step toward efficiency. Only one thing haven't made clear. Presumably have shotguns and rifles. Why unable drive off these predators yourselves?" The mayor laughed bitterly. "It would be easy to tell you'd just arrived on this planet -- although the birds are not well known in the other cities either; they are all concentrated in this area. Yes. our sportsmen tried to shoot down the whirlybirds. No luck, of course Imagine the problems you have when one of these forty-foot balls of commotion comes at you : You try to aim but you can't hold your arm still because of the swirling wind they raise; and then the dust clouds thicken and you're firing wildly, and you can't begin to tell which is body and which is feathers anyway." "Very well," accepted Charles DeCrabbe mercifully. "You've made attempt. My first step therefore the attachment of high explosives to boobytrapped mannequins. Brought these with me." CCreat winds of catastrophe. I'm VJ glad you mentioned it before you did it!" exclaimed the mayor. "We tried that once. The city was six weeks digging out from under the feathers -- and it didn't kill the whirlvbird!" "Aren't you exaggerating difficulties encountered in picking up few feathers?" loftily inquired DeCrabbe. "How do you think we got the name of Featherton? Before the deluge we were called West Applebury!" Then why haven't you attempted lure them into boobytraps outside town? Could detonate them there withbut even slight inconvenience of picking up feathers." "Believe me, if there were only a few feathers," insisted Mayor Prince, "few enough for you to pick up by yourself, we wouldn't mind you blowing up a whirlybird." "Wasn't considering picking up any feathers," replied Five-gun with dignity. "Had supposed a menial or two could be supplied for that." The mayor shook his head. "It would take everybody in town to clean up. And as for blowing one up outside the city, one of our orchardists tried it. He blew it to bits all right, but eighty acres of his apple trees were smothered under the debris!" "Now anticipate that the extermination of the whirlybirds will almost certainly take me up to two days," conceded Five-gun DeCrabbe calmly. "However will be all the more interesting to defeat them without recourse large explosives." "Gee, what a man!" admired the mayor's son. "Only two days!" "If you will now lead me to your city park will begin campaign of extermination at once." "It's down that way," said the mayor, pointing. Plainly he had no intention of leaving the shelter of the marquee. "You can't miss it." As Fivegun Charles DeCrabbe leaped back into his craft and started off, the mayor's son called after him, "Aren't vou scared, going out exposed like that?" DeCrabbe turned. "Am armed, young man," he retorted severely. "Yeah, but those whirlybirds don't pay any attention to guns." "Soon will," DeCrabbe replied, unruffled. Slowly he drove down the center of the empty street, receiving more cheers from heads thrust out of windows. He arrived at the city park and turned in. He unloaded most of his equipment under the roof of the bandstand. A few minutes later one of his robot mannequins moved slowly around the clearing before the bandstand, its control set for slow walking to conserve its atomic battery. The predator hunter unlimbered all his guns as he sat under the bandstand roof waiting. It was an hour before the first whirlybird attacked. His first warning was the rising wind. His gaze moved around the sky until he found the rapidly growing black spot. A few seconds later it became a universe-engulfing blackness as it spotted the mannequin and came down for it. As soon as the wind-screaming blackness reached the mannequin, the needle guns in his hands emptied their hundreds of anesthetizing needles into the turbulence. But it was as the mayor had said. Where did the bird's body end and the feathers begin? When the needle pistols were empty he dropped them and snatched up the rocket powered stun-gas weapon; its immense flare poured into the blackness without' visible result. He dropped it and grabbed the N-ray flashburn gun. The forty-foot ball of fury was beginning to rise high with its prey now, as the gun stuttered fifty bolts of burning lethal radiation into it. He smelled feathers that time. Finally as the giant bird, without faltering, rose above the range of the Nray gun, he took to the explosive pellet rifle It had only ten shots; all of these went into the center of the blackness well before the whirlybird had flown beyond ran:e. And as it neared the horizon wnb its mannequin prey, he heard its sweet song: "Coo! Coo!" "How dare it coo after all l did to it?" muttered DeCrabbe grimly. "Shall not coo next time!" H alf an hour later a new mannequin stood out in front of the bandstand. Its arms waved ceaselessly but it stood still. Nestled against its back was a ten gallon drum of gas, which would be exploded -- blanketing most of the park in fumes -- as soon as the mannequin was moved. Charles DeCrabbe waited, his mask ready, his potent weapons all reloaded. Ninety minutes later the huge black menace arrived -- either the first whirlybird or another forty-foot wind-screaming fury. Slipping his gas mask on, the man waited for the right moment to begin firing. The whirlybird swooped down, the tank exploded in a fog, and the giant wobbled! DeCrabbe emptied all his weapons again. The bird arose, wobbling, its speed greatly impaired, but making its getaway despite all he could do. "Damn well didn't coo that time," he said when the monster had reached the horizon. "Next time won't fly either." But just then the monstrous bird mocked him in the distance with a loud, sweet. "Coo! Coo!" Shortly after lunch he had it all set up. A new mannequin stood out in front of the bandstand, its arms waving and a pair of slim, gleaming, ten-gallon drums of stun gas nearby. It was one o'clock before the third whirlybird struck. Down it sank until it became a huge, ebony blot in the afternoon sky. Underneath the bandstand roof DeCrabbe got ready for his supreme effort. He slipped on his gas mask and made sure his N-ray flashburn gun was ready for instant action, its safety off. He was determined that if he got the bird prostrate he would climb aboard and fire N-ray bolts into it until something gave I The huge black, wind-screaming monster plummeted the last few yards down and grabbed the mannequin. Both tanks of stun gas exploded. The giant whirlybird slumped unconscious -- and DeCrabbe scrambled aboard! The feverishly hurrying hunter was not long discovering why he had not -- and never would -- penetrate the bird's feathers with any of his weapons: He burrowed down into the feathers the length of his arm and there were yet more feathers beyond! A feather pillow would stop a rifle bullet, he knew, and this monster had the probable equivalent of a thousand feather pillows protecting it, invulnerable as a battleship And just then the maneater awoke, wobbled into the air, and flew away before DeCrabbe could get off! T he following afternoon, as Fivegun Charles DeCrabbe made his farewell of the city of Featherton, he once more drove down the center of the street with the bubble of his space convertible slid back. Yet there was a difference this time. The mayor and his son rode beside him on the seat, and all of the people were now out of doors standing along the curb, cheering their deliverer wildly as he passed. "I can't tell you how much I personally appreciate what you've done for us," said the mayor humbly. "Quite quite quite!" returned Five-gun haughtily in his clipped speech, hoping to shut off the man's tendency toward windyness. With awe in his voice the mayor's son admired, "So instead of being scared to leath you were all ready for action when you and the whirlybird landed at their rocky, mountain lair?" "Yes yes yes! Slid off its back, hid between two boulders, waited for the appropriate moment. After bagging that one. waited for other monsters as they landed, one by one. Bagged them." "Just like that!" said the youngster. "You just get up close enough for those peoplehawks to grab you and then you bagged them." "Only possible way is my way, clipped DeCrabbe immovably. "Its eyes couldn't be buried deeply in feathers if they were to be of use." "So?" "So eye is proximate to beak -- and brain," said the hunter with dignity. "Where one of its coo-coos came out, one of my N-ray bolts went in, and that was that!" IF  Feature The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: Swell. One of the greatest letter departments that If ever had. Just started my curiosity again. The Snowbank Orbit by Fritz Leiber was the best story that you have published now since The Sounds of Earth by Arthur C. Clarke. I still want to shake your hand and congratulate a fine editor for a job well done. You are coming along with some of the top science-fiction writers in the whole field. James W. Ayers # First Street Attalla, Alabama    Dear Editor: Your cover art has improved remarkably with the September painting. The July issue's disgusting effort falls far, far behind Wenzel's latest contribution, which almost surpasses the #I (September) cover. May you continue to improve. Robert A. Heinlein in the November issue? Maybe you are really looking up after all. Mr. McKey had a difficult "flipping" feat ahead of him. Roger Alan Cox Z#, Courtney Road August, Georgia    Dear Editor: On the back of your latest issue, does the "B E M s" stand for "BookEating Maniacs?" My friend and I would like to know. David Mars #' Greenwood Drive Clinton, Tennessee  Nope. Stands for "Bug-Eyed Monsters" -- old science-fiction expression referring to the peculiarlooking aliens that used to appear on every science-fiction cover. Naturally we're above that sort of thing now. -- Editor . Dear Fred : The July If caught up with us here in Florida just while we're getting ready to shove off for Maine. To set the record straight, the writing of Masters of Space -- except for some editorial revisions -- was all mine. So was much of the plot; and I approved unreservedly both Evan's share of the plot and his rough draft upon which half of the final draft was based. I note without too much surprise that Mr. Winkes doesn't like it. He isn't quite alone in that. Mr. Bester and Mr. Boucher and some others didn't like it, either. However, that fact doesn't bother me too much. Thelma Evans liked it, I liked it, and a lot of fans liked it -- and I learned long ago that nobody can please everybody. Edward E. Smith    Dear Editor: I just bought the September Issue of your magazine today and I thought I would drop you a few lines of first-impression comments and suggestions. What's the matter with your printing presses? As I flipped through this issue I saw a great number of printing blotches and on the second page of the story World in a Mirror I discovered a word so completely smeared that I could get no clue to what it was. How about dropping a 'hint to the printing boys not to put so much ink on the presses? John W. Woods # Centre Street Haddonfield,New Jersey  We did better than that. We dropped those printers. -- Editor. Dear Editor: Your July and September covers were beautiful! I think the September cover's about the best cover I've ever seen on any science-fiction magazine. I'd like to see more of Wenzel. Kent McDaniel # Metropolis Street    Dear Editor: Reguards Retief and that Fustian jag: Come, gentlemen; you sir, Mr. Pohl, sir, for publishing such unmitigated garp, and you, Mr. Laumer-san, for writing it. Especially you, Mr. Laumer. The plot was obviously prefabricated, the action was, leave us face it, implausible, the ending too pat, the villain not nearly villainous enough (why didn't you use a pussycat, Mr. Laumer, sir?), the dialogue clearly constructed from random combinations of alphabet cereal, the protagonist much too cocksure, arrogant and just allaround offensive, the supporting character name of Magnan too stupid -- in short, Mr. Laumer, sir, your characters are celluloid stereotypes, your action is uncoordinated and amateurish and your imagination is restricted by Grade F mystery magazine technique. David C. Oshel # Harding Avenue Ames, Iowa  Quit beating about the bush ! Did you like it or didn't you? -- Editor .    Dear Editor: The first thing I turn to eachish is the Retief story. You quit printing them and I quit buying If. Wilton McArthur Bethlehem, Pennsylvania Dear Editor: The other day I was looking through the city library for something I hadn't read, and ran across a book on how to build model planes by one J. K. Laumer. On the back it stated that J. Keith Laumer, at that time on duty with the U.S.A.F., had spent three years in the U. S. Foreign Service. The plot now begins to clear itself up a little. All professions have their private stock of stories on who did a fine job here and who was a horrible example there. Our State Department has sent some people abroad to represent us who were no better prepared than Ambassador Magnan, some even worse, and others who were # on the beam. Read your world news and see what types kept other people on our side, and what ones lost us much of that intangible stuff the Orientals call "face." Laumer is merely mining his little stockpile of departmental folklore, setting them in far-off worlds. Long may he rave! Listen, reader, and perchance learn something of value to the present. John P. Conlon # Columbia Street Newark, Ohio    Dear Editor: I have just finished reading your September issue, and find it passable -- no more... It might be questioned whether or not an editorial Is the place to conduct book reviews. I, for one, would rather see no editorial and a plainly labeled book review section. More serious is the fact that the reviews are not critical enough... I do not want to give the impression I did not enjoy the issue, for I did. But I am an sf addict, and enjoy anything that can pose as science fiction. In this letter I have tried to abandon this sort of attitude and take the attitude of an English prof critically reviewing serious literature -- for I believe science fiction can be and should be as meaningful as any other type of literature. It  ha# some advantages over other forms of literature, most noticeably in that it is the only form that does not carry an overwhelming burden of tradition; but it is not living up to its potentialities. R. W. Scollay # North Beech Street Oxford, Ohio    Dear Editor: Why was the July If #" tall and the May and September issues # ##"? Hank Luttrell Route # # Barrett Sta. Road Kirkwood #, Missouri  Printer goofed. See note to John Woods' letter above. -- Editor.    Dear Editor: I'm glad to hear about the IFirstory campaign. True, you'd probably publish at least one new writer every issue anyway, but doing it formally should encourage a lot of amateurs who would like to write, but feel that they don't have a chance, competing against established pros... I'm afraid this letter ran rather long, but I say what I have to say. Do you feel that anything I said herein was unnecessary? # Brighton Street Belmont, Massachusetts  Not a bit of it. On the other hand, we have Just so many pages... so what we do, we cut the letters most savagely. As you know I ,The "IFirstory" program (now, there's a neologism for you!) is coming along handsomely. Take a look at this issue's discovery: Captorn of the Kali , by a man who to us seems one of the most promising finds of the year.   Dear Mr. Sturgeon; Your article Uncle Sam # Time Machine in the July issue of Worlds of IF Science Fiction has been widely read here at the Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards. We just wish to tell you how much members of our staff enjoyed the presentation. Of course, we hope your readers understand that this particular item was anything but fiction! John R. Craddock Technical Information Officer National Bureau of Standards Boulder, Colorado That's the full bundle for this time. Once again we have five times as many letters as we can print, even abridged. The unpublished # are thanked mosj; gratefully and assured their letters have been read, their opinions have been weighed... and their chances of seeing themselves in print next time are as good as anyone else's. -- The Editor .  First in a new series of science-fiction books. j g A double portion of first-rate adventure science fiction #  by one of the greatest writers in the field -- never before   in print in paperbound book form -- watch your newstands! # Give the gift you'd like to receive We admit it -- we're pushovers for the Xmas spirit. "Don't do it," our accountant pleads. "We can't afford to sell subscriptions at those prices!" But our eye goes past his piteous figure to the distant corners of the land. "Readers straining budgets to introduce Galaxy to friends and relatives, and have enough scratch left over for their own subscriptions. We can't leave the job to them!" we thunder. "Galaxy must bear its share of the burden! And not only that -- by the Lord Harry, we'll even include handsome Gift Card Announcements with their names as donors!" Out slouches our accountant, muttering, "All right, but they'd better get their orders in before December #. --  -- so rush in your order today. Galaxy Publishing Corp., #I Hudson St., New York #, N.Y. Please enter Special Gift Subscriptions to the following and send gift card announcements. I enclose Name Address City State Offer # Price Name Address City State Offer# Price Sign Card. Sign Card Name Address City StateOffer # Price Sign Card Name Address City State Offer # Price Sign Card won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. CF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! March # ' #j#c Tur TiAic TniiDc L... i r dam add If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers-challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Dei Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohi, Davidson, Simak, Bloch, Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfej Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Sjend me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Address. City Zone State Use coupon or order by letter if you wish worlds of Vol. #, Number I All Stories New science fiction Sol Cohen, Publisher Frederik Pohl, Editor David Perton, Production Manager Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Cover by Virgil Finlay from The Time Tombs Next issue (May) on Sale March #th IF published bl-monthJy by Digest Productions Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # Issues # In the United States, Canaaa, Mexico. South and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Digest Productions Corporation, iy#. All rights Including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial F antasize along with us for a moment. The Chairman wakes up to a phone call, the four hundredth in a matter of weeks, with yet another complaint that the colleclective farms just aren't producing enough food; the natives are restless, and putting another locomotive into orbit is not going to cheer them up any more. Gloomily the Chairman sits on the edge of his bed fondling his shoe. He reasons that while the Western world is falling into decay, it seems to be taking forever to do it and in the meantime, most everyone seems to have enough to eat. So in the West they have something that really works, and it's not just seedcorn. So the Chairman suddenly says and reaches for the phone. And from this point on, the world is amazed to learn that the collectives have been dissolved and the land given to the peasants, to work for their own profit. Before you can say borscht, the cabbages start rolling in and there's babka for everyone. But about this time the typographers and the furniture-makers and the little old potatoface in the vodka mill all get a look at file fins on the cars the farmers are driving, and they set up a howl envied by all the banshees in Ireland, until by Michaelmas, the whole country turns capitalistic. Got it? Now ask yourself this question. If the Soviet Union ovemit went capitalist, do you think there would be any easing of international tensions? If the answer is yes, everything's jolly. If the answer is no, then there seems to be an aching vacuum in the general thinking. Because communism is supposed to be the Enemy and the defeat of communism the goal. We even seem to be making some progress in that dirrection in many ways. But nobody seems to be telling us what we're supposed to do if we achieve total victory over communism and still find that we have to live under the shadow of the Big Boom. We suppose that it is necessary (although it is irritating to feel that it is necessary) to say here that totalitarian communism is bad stuff, and we want no part of it. The only thing is, people keep calling it the Enemy as if it was the Only Enemy, and we keep having this fantasy. The Chairman wakes up to a phone call, and -- IF  Must man die to release his mner consciousness? Can we experience momentary flights of the soul -- that is, become one with the universe and receive an influx of great understanding? The shackles of the body -- its earthly limitations -- can be thrown off and mans mind can be attuned to the Infinite Wisdom for a flash of a second. During this brief interval intuitive knowledge, great inspiration, and a new vision of our life's mission are had. Some call this psychic phenomenon. But the ancients knew it and taught it as Cosmic Consciousness --  the merging of man's #  mind with the Uni" " Versal Intelligence. free Book Explain This is not a religious doctrine, but the application of simple, natural laws, which give man an insight into the great Cosmic plan. They make possible a source of great joy, strength, and a regeneration of man's personal powers. Write to the Rosicrucians, an age-old brotherhood of understanding, for a jree copy of the book "The Mastery of Life." It will tell you how, in the privacy of your own home, you may indulge in these mysteries of life known to the ancients. Address : Scribe W.E.W. IF  Novelette The ancient Martians were long dead -- but the legacy they left would never die! I U sually in the evenings, while Traxel and Bridges drove oft into the sand-sea, Shepley and the Old Man would wander among the gutted time-tombs, listening to them splutter faintly in the dying light as they recreated their fading personas, the deep crystal vaults flaring briefly like giant goblets. Most of the time-tombs on the southern edge of the sand-sea had been stripped centuries earlier. But Shepley liked to saunter through the straggle of half-submerged pavilions, the warm ancient sand playing over his bare feet like wavelets on some IF endless beach. Alone among the flickering tombs, with the empty husks of the past ten thousand years, he could temporarily forget his nagging sense of failure. Tonight, however, he would have to forego the walk. Traxel who was nominally the leader of the group of tomb-robbers, had pointedly warned him at dinner that he must pay his way or leave. For three weeks Shepley had put off going with Traxel and Bridges, making a series of progressively lamer excuses, and they had begun to get impatient with him. The Old Man they would tolerate, for his vast knowledge of the sandsea -- he had combed the decaying tombs for over forty years and knew every reef and therm-pool like the palm of his hand -- and because he was an institution that somehow dignified the lowly calling of tombrobber, but Shepley had been there for only three months and had nothing to offer except his morose silences and self-hate. "Tonight, Shepley," Traxel told him firmly in his hard clipped voice, "you must find a tape. We cannot support you indefinitely. Remember, we're all as eager to leave Vergil as you are." Shepley nodded, watching his reflection in the gold finger-bowl. Traxel sat at the head of the tilting table, his high-collared velvet jacket unbuttoned. Surrounded by the battered gold plate filched from the tombs, from Bridges tankard, he looked mode like a Renaissance princeling than a cashiered Ph.D. from Tycho U. Once Traxel had cen Professor of Semantics, and Shepley wondered what scandal had brought him to Vergil. Now, like a grave-rat, he hunted the time-tombs with Bridges, selling the tapes to the PsychoHistory Museums at a dollar a foot. Shepley found it impossible to come to terms with the tall, aloof man. By contrast Bridges, who was just a thug, had a streak of blunt good humor that made him tolerable, but with Traxel he could never relax. Perhaps his cold laconic manner represented authority, the high-faced, stem-eyed interrogators who still pursued Shepley in his dreams. Bridges kicked back his chair and lurched away around the table, pounding Shepley across the shoulders. "You come with us, kid. Tonight we'll find a mega-tape." O utside, the low-hulled, camouflaged halftrack waited in a saddle between two dunes. The old summer palace was sinking slowly below the desert, and the floor of the banqueting hall shelved into the white sand like the deck of a subsiding liner, going down with lights blazing from its staterooms. "What about you. Doctor?" Traxel asked the Old Man as Bridges swung aboard the half-track and the exhaust kicked out. "It would be a pleasure to have you along." When the Old Man shook his head Traxel turned to Shepley. "Well, are you coming?" IP "Not tonight," Shcpiey demurred hurriedly. "I'll, er, walk down to the tomb-beds latCT myself." 'Twenty miles?" Traxel reminded him, watching reflectively. "Very well." He zipped up his jacket and strode away towards the half-track. As they moved off he shouted: "Shepley, I meant what I said!" Shepley watched them disappear among the dunes. Flatly, he repeated: "He means what he says." The Old Man shrugged, sweeping some sand off the table. "Traxel... he's a difficult man. What are you going to do?" The note of reproach in his voice was mild, realizing that Shepley's motives were the same as those which had marooned himself on the lost beaches of the sand-sea four decades earlier. Shepley snapped irritably. "I can't go with him. After five minutes he drains me like a skull. What's the matter with Traxel, why is he here?" The Old Man stood up, staring out vaguely into the desert. "I can't remember. Everyone has his own reasons. After a while the stories overlap." They walked out under the proscenium, following the grooves left by the half-track. A mile away, winding between the last of the lavalakes which marked the southern shore of the sand-sea, they could just see the vehicle vanishing into the darkness. The old tomb-beds, where Shepley and the Old Man usually walked, lay between them, the pavilions arranged in three lines along a low basaltic ridge. Occasionally a brief flare of lit flickered up into the white, bone-like darkness, but most of the tombs were silent. Shepley stopped, hands falling limply to his sides. "The new beds are by the Lake of Newton, nearly twenty miles away. I can't follow them." "I shouldn't try," the Old Man rejoined. "There wak a big sandstorm last night. The time-wardens will be out in force marking any new tombs uncovered." He chuckled softly to himself. "Traxel and Bridges won't find a foot of tape -- they'll be lucky if they're not arrested." He took off his white cotton hat and squinted shrewdly through the dead light, assessing the altered contours of the dunes, then guided Shepley towards the old mono-rail whose southern terminus ended by the tomb-beds. Once it had been used to transport the pavilions from the station on the northern shore of the sand-sea and a small gyro-car stiU leaned igainst the freight platform. "We'll go over to Pascal. Something may have come up, you never know." S hepley shook his head. Traxd took me there when I first arrived. They've all been stripped a hundred times." "WeU, we'U have a look." The Old Man plodded on towards the mono-rail, his dirty white suit flapping in the low breeze. Behind them the summer palace -- built three centuries earlier by a business tycoon from Ceres -- faded into the darkt ness, the rippling glass tiles in the upper spires merging into the starlight. Propping the car against the platform, Shepley wound up the gyroscope, then helped the Old Man onto the front seat. He pried off a piece of rusting platform rail and began to punt the car away. Every fifty yards or so they stopped to clear the sand that submerged the track, but slowly they wound off among the dunes and lakes, here and there the onion-shaped cupola of a solitary time-tomb rearing up into the sky beside them, fragments of the crystal casements twinkling in the sand like minuscule stars. Half an hour later, as they rode down the final long incline towards the Lake of Pascal, Shepley went forward to sit beside the Old Man, who emerged from his private reverie to ask quizzically: "And you, Shepley, why are you here?" Shepley leaned back, letting the cool air drain the sweat off his face. "Once I tried to kill someone," he explained tersely. "After they cured me I found I wanted to kill myself instead." He reached down to the hand-brake as they gathered speed. "For ten thousand dollars I can go back on probation. Here T thought there would be a freemasonry of sorts. But then you've been kind enough, Doctor." "Don't worry, we'll get you a winning tape." He leaned forward, shielding his eyes from the stellar glare, gazing down at the little cantonment of gutted time-tombs on the shore of the lake. In all there were about a dozen pavilions, their roofs holed, the group Traxel had shown to Shepley after his arrival when he demonstrated how the vaults were robbed. "Shepley! Look, lad!" "Where? I've seen them before, Doctor. They're stripped." The Old Man pushed hini away. "No, you fool, about three hundred yards to the west, in the shadow of the long ridge where the big dunes have moved. Can you see them now?" He drummed a white fist on Shepley's knee. "You've made it, lad. You won't need to be frightened of Traxel or anyone else now." Shepley jerked the car to a halt. As he ran ahead of the Old Man towards the escarpment he could see several of the time-tombs glowing along the sky-line, emerging briefly from the dark earth like the tents of some spectral caravan. U F or ten millenia the Sea of Vergil had served as a burial ground, and the I ,# square miles of restless sand were estimated to contain over twenty thousand tombs. All but a minute fraction had been stripped by the successive generations of tomb robbers, and an intact spool of the #th Dynasty could now be sold to the Psycho-History Museum at Tycho for over # dollars. For each preceding dynasty, though none older than the #th had ever been found, there was a bonus. IP There were no corpses in the timetombs, no dusty skeletons. The cyber-architectonic ghosts which haunted them were embalmed in the metallic codes of memory tapes, three-dimensional molecular transcriptions of their living originals, stored among the dunes as a stupendous act of faith, in the hope that one day the physical re-creation of the coded personalities would be possible. After five thousand years the attempt had been reluctantly abandoned, but out of respect for the tomb-builders their pavilions were left to take their own hazard with time in the Sea of Vergil. Later the tomb-robbers had arrived, as the historians of the new epochs realized the enormous archives that lay waiting for them in this antique limbo. Despite the time-wardens, the traffic in dead souls continued. #Toctor! Come on! Look at them!" Shepley plunged wildly up to his knees in the silver-white sand, diving from one pavilion to the next like a frantic puppy. Smiling to himself, the Old Man climbed slowfy up the melting slope, submerged to his waist as the fine crystals poured away around him, feeling for spurs of firmer rock. The cupola of the nearest tomb tilted into the sky, only the top six inches of the casements visible below the overhang. He sat for a moment on the roof, watching Shepley dive about in the darkness, then peered through the casement, brushing away the sand with his hands. The tomb was intact. Inside he could see the votive light burning over the altar, the hexagonal nave with its inlaid gold floor and drapery, the narrow chancel at the rear which held the memory store. Lbw tables surrounded the chancel, carrying beaten goblets and gold bowls, token offerings intended to distract any pillager who stumbled upon the tomb. Shepley came leaping over to him. "Let's get into them, Doctor! What are we waiting for?" The Old Man looked out over the plain below, at the cluster of stripped tombs by the edge of the lake, at the dark ribbon of the gyro-rail winding away among the hills. The thought of the fortune that lay at his finger tips left him unmoved. For so long now he had lived among the tombs that he had begun to assume something of their ambience of immortality and timelessness, and Shepley's impatience seemed to come out of another dimension. He hated stripping the tombs. Each one robbed represented, not just the final extinction of a surviving personality, but a diminution of his own sense of eternity. Whenever a new tomb-bed emerged from the sand he felt something within himself momentarily rekindled, not hope, for he was beyond that, but a serene acceptance of the brief span of time left to him. "Right," he nodded. They began to cleave away the sand piled around the door, Shepley driving it down the slope where it spilled in a white foam over the darker basaltic chips. When the narrow portico was free the Old Man squatted by the timeseal. His fingers cleaned away the crystals embedded between the tabs, then played lightly over them. Like dry sticks breaking, an ancient voice crackled: Orion, Betelgeuse, Altair, What twice-born star shall be my heir, Doomed again to be the scion -- "Come on, Doctor, this is a quicker way." Shepley put one leg up against the door and lunged against it futilely. The Old Man pushed him away. With his mouth close to the seal, he rejoined: Of Altair, Betelgeuse, Orion, As the doors accepted this and swung back he murmured: "Don't despise the old rituals. Now, let's see." They paused in the cool, unbreathed air, the votive light throwing a pale ruby glow over the gold drapes parting across the chancel. T he air became curiously hazy and mottled. Within a few seconds it began to vibrate with increasing rapidity, and a succession of vivid colors rippled across the surface of what appeared to be a cone of light projected from the rear of the chancel. Soon this resolved itself into a three-dimensional image of an elderly man in a blue robe. Although the image was transparrobe revealing the inadequacies of the projection system, the intensity of the illusion was such that Shepley almost expected the man to speak to them. He was well into his seventies, with a composed, watchful face and thin gray hair, his hands resting quietly in front of him. The edge of the desk was just visible, the proximal arc of the cone enclosing part of a silver ink-stand and a small metal trophy. These details, and the spectral bookshelves and paintings which formed the backdrop of the illusion, were of infinite value to the Psycho-History institutes, providing evidence of the earlier civilizations far more reliable then the funerary urns and goblets in the anteroom. Shepley began to move forward, the definition of the persona fading slightly. A visual relay of the memory store, it would continue to play after the code had been removed, though the induction coils would soon exhaust themselves. Then the tomb would be finally extinct. Two feet away, the wise unblinking eyes of the long dead magnate stared at him steadily, his seamed forehead like a piece of pink transparent wax. Tentatively, Shepley reached out and plunged his hand into the cone, the myriad vibration patterns racing across his wrist. For a moment he held the dead man's face in his hand, the edge of the desk and the silver inkstand dappling across his sleeve. Then he stepped forward and ir walked straight through him into the darkness at the rear of the chancel. Quickly, following Traxel's instructions, he unbolted the console containing the memory store, lifting out the three heavy drums which held the tape spools. Immediately the persona began to dim, the edge of the desk and the bookshelves vanishing as the cone contracted. Narrow bands of dead air appeared across it, one, at the level of the man's neck, decapitating him. Lower down the scanner had begun to misfire. The folded hands trembled nervously, and now and then one of his shoulders gave a slight twitch. Shepley stepped through him without looking back. The Old Man was waiting outside. Shepley dropped the drums onto the sand. 'They're heavy," he muttered. Brightening, he added: "There must be over five hundred feet here. Doctor. With the bonus, and all the others as well -- " He took the Old Man's arm. "Come on, let's get into the next one." The Old Man disengaged himself, watching the sputtering persona in die pavilion, the blue light from the dead man' suit pulsing across the sand like a soundless lightning storm. "Wait a minute, lad, don't run away with yourself." As Shepley began to slide off through the sand, sending further falls down the slope, he added in a firmer voice: "And stop moving all that sand around! These tombs have been hidden here for ten thousand years. Don't undo all the good work, or the wardens will be finding them the first time they go past." "Or Traxel," Shepley said, sobering quickly. He glanced around the lake below, searching the shadows among the tombs in case anyone was watching them, waiting to seize the treasure. Ill T he Old Man left him at the door of the next pavilion, reluctant to watch the tomb being stripped of the last vestige of its already meager claim to immortality. "This will be our last one tonight," he told Shepley. "You'll never hide all these tapes from Bridges and Traxel." The furnishings of the tomb differed from the previous one's. Somber black marble panels covered the walls, inscribed with strange goldleaf hieroglyphs, and the inlays in the floor represented stylized astrological symbols, at once eerie and obscure. Shepley leaned against the altar, watching the cone of light reach out towards him from the chancel as the curtains parted. The predominant colors were gold and carmine, mingled with a vivid powdery copper that gradually resolved itself into the huge, harp-like headdress of a reclining woman. She lay in the center of what seemed to be a sphere of softly luminous gas, inclined against a massive black catafalque, from the sides of which flared two enormous heraldic wings. The woman's copper hair was swept IS straight back off her forehead, some five or si feet long, and merged with the plumage of the wings, giving her an impression of tremendous contained speed, like a goddess arrested in a moment of flight in a cornice of some great temple-city of the dead. Her eyes stared forward expressionlessly at Shepley. Her arms and shoulders were bare, and the white skin, like compacted snow, had a light glaring against the black base of the catafalque and the long sheathlike gown that swept around her hips to the floor. Her face, like an exquisite porcelain mask, was tilted upward slightly, the hooded, halfclosed eyes suggesting that the woman was asleep or dreaming. No background had been provided for the image, but the bowl of luminescence invested the whole persona with immense power and mystery. Shepley head the Old Man shuffle up behind him "Who is she, Doctor? A princess?" The Old Man shook his head sIdwly. "You car only guess. I don't know. There are strange treasures in these tombs Get on with it, we'd best be going " Shepley hesitated. He started to walk towards the woman on the catafalque, and then felt the enormous upward surge of her flight, the pressure of all the past centuries carried before her brought to a sudden focus in front of him, holding him back like a physical barrier. "Doctor!" He reached the door just behind the Old Man. "We'll leave this one, there's no hurry!" The Old Man examined his face shrewdly in the moonlight, the brilliant colors of the persona flickering across Shepley's youthful cheeks. "I know how you feel, lad, but remember, the woman doesn't exist, any more than a painting. You'll have to come back for her soon." Shepley nodded quickly. "I know, but some other night. There's something uncanny about this tomb." He closed the doors behind them, and immediately the huge cone of light shrank back into the chancel, sucking the woman and the catafalque into the darkness. The wind swept across the dunes, throwing a fine spray of sand onto the half-buried cupolas, sighing among the wrecked tombs. The Old Man made his way down to the mono-rail, and waited for Shepley as he worked for the next hour, slowly covering each of the tombs. O n the Old Man's recommendation he gave Traxel only one of the canisters, containing about # feet of tape. As prophesied, the timewardens had been out in force in the Sea of Newton, and two members of another gang had been caught red-handed. Bridges was in foul temper, but Traxel, as ever selfcontained, seemed unworried at the wasted evening. Straddling the desk in the tilting ballroom, he examined the drum with interest, complimenting Shepley IF on his initiative. "Excellent, Shepley. I'm glad you joined us now. Do you mind telling me where you found thisr Shepley shrugged vaguely, began to mumble something about a secret basement in one of the gutted tombs nearby, but the Old Man cut in: "Don't broadcast it everywhere! Traxel, you shouldn't ask questions like that -- he's got his own living to earn." Traxel smiled, sphinx-like. "Right again, Doctor." He tapped the smooth untarnished case. "In mint condition, and a #th Dynasty too." "Tenth!" Shepley claimed indignantly, frightened that Traxel might try to pocket the bonus. The Old Man cursed, and Traxel's eyes gleamed. "Tenth, is it? I didn't realize there were any #th Dynasty tombs still intact. You surprise me, Shepley. Obviously you have concealed talents." Luckily he seemed to assume that the Old Man had been hoarding the tape for years. Face down in a shallow hollow at the edge of the ridge, Shepley watched the white-hulled sand-car of the time-wardens shunt through the darkness by the old cantonment. Directly below him jutted the spires of the newly discovered tomb-bed, invisible against the dark background of the ridge. The two wardens in the sand-car were more interested in the old tombs; they had spotted the gyrocar lying on its side by the monoraO, and guessed that the gangs had been working the ruins over again. One of them stood on the running board, flicking a torch into the gutted pavilions. Crossing the monorail, the car moved off slowly across the lake to the northwest, a low paB of dust settling behind it. For a few moments Shepley lay quietly in the slack darkness, watching the gullies and ravines that led into the lake, then slid down among the pavilions. Brushing away the sand to reveal a square wooden plank, he slipped below it into the portico. As the golden image of the enchantress loomed out of the blackwalled chancel to greet him, the great reptilian wings unfurling around her, he stood behind one of the columns in the nave, fascinated by her strange deathless beauty. At times her vivid luminous face seemed almost repellent, but he had nonetheless seized on the faint possibility of her resurrection. Each night he came, stealing into the tomb where she had lain for ten thousand years, unable to bring himself to interrupt her. The long copper hair streamed behind her like an entrained time-wind, her angled body in flight between two infinitely distant universes, where archetypal beings of superhuman stature glimmered fitfully in their own spontaneously generated light. T wo days later Bridges discovered the remainder of the drums. 'Traxel! Traxel!" he bellowed, racing across the inner courtyard from U IF the entrance to one of the disused bunkers. He bounded into the ballroom and slammed the metal cans onto the computer which Traxel was programming. "Take a look at these -- more Tenths! The whole place is crawling with them!" Traxel weighed the cans idly in his hands, glancing across at Shepley and the Old Man, on lookout duty by the window. "Interesting. Where did you find them?" Shepley jumped down from the window trestle. "They're mine. The Doctor will confirm it. They run in sequence after the first I gave you a week ago. I was storing them." Bridges cut back with an oath. "Whaddya mean, storing them? Is that your personal bunker out there? Since when?" He shoved Shepley away with a broad hand and swung round on Traxel. "Listen, Traxel, those tapes were a fair find, I don't see any tags on them. Every time I bring something in I'm going to have this kid claim it?" Traxel stood up, adjusting his height so that he over-reached Bridges. "Of course, you're right -- technically. But we have to work together, dqn't we? Shepley made a mistake, we'll forgive him this time." He handed the drums to Shepley, Bridges seething with barely controlled indignation. "If I were you, Shepley, I'd get those cashed. Don't worry about flooding the market." As Shepley turned away, sidestepping Bridges, he called him back. "And there are advantages in working together. you know." He watched Shepley disappear to his room, then turned to survey the huge peeling map of the sand-sea that covered the facing wall. "You'll have to strip the tombs now," the Old Man told Shepley later. "It's obvious you've stumbled on something, and it won't  take Traxel five minutes to discover where." "Perhaps a little longer," Shepley replied evenly. They stepped out of the shadow of the palace and moved away among the dunes; Bridges and Traxel were watching them from the dining room table, their figures motionless in the light. "The roofs are almost completely covered now. The next sandstorm should bury them for good." "Have you entered any of the other tombs?" Shepley shook his head vigorously. "Believe me. Doctor, I know now why the timewardens are here. As long as there's a chance of their be ing resurrected we're committing murder every time we rob a tomb. Even if it's only one chance in a million it may be all they themselves bargained on. After all, one doesn't commit suicide because the chances of life existing anywhere are virtually nil." Already he had come to believe that the enchantress might suddenly resurrect herself, step down from the catafalque before his eyes. While a slender possibility existed of her returning to life he felt that he too had a valid foothold in existence, that there was a small element of IF certainty in what had previously seemed a random and utterly mean ingless universe. IV A s the first dawn light probed through the casements, Shepley turned reluctantly from the nave. He looked back briefly at the glow ing persona, suppressing the slight pang of disappointment that the expected metamorphosis had not yet occurred, but relieved to have spent as much time awaiting it as possible. He made his way down to the old cantonment, steering carefully through the shadows. As he reached the monorail -- he now made the journey on foot, to prevent Traxel guessing that the cache lay along the route of the rail -- he heard the track hum faintly in the cool air. He jumped back behind a low mound, tracing its winding pathway through the dunes. Suddenly an engine throbbed out behind him, and Traxel's camouflaged halftrack appeared over the edge of the ridge. Its front four wheels raced and spun, and the huge vehicle tipped forward and plunged down the incline among the buried tombs, its surging tracks dislodging tons of the fine sand Shepley had so laboriously pushed by hand up the slope. Immediately several of the pavilions appeared to view, the white dust cascading off their cupolas. Half-buried in the avalanche they had set off, Traxel and Bridges leapt from the driving cab, pointing to the pavilions and shouting at each other. Shepley darted forward, put his foot up on the mono-rail just as it began to vibrate loudly. In the distance the gyro-car slowly approached, the Old Man punting it along, hatless and disheveled. He reached the tomb as Bridges was kicking the door in with a heavy boot, Traxel behind him with a bag full of wrenches. "Hello, Shepley!" Traxel greeted him gaily. "So this is your treasure trove." Shepley staggered splay-legged through the sliding sand, brushed past Traxel as glass spattered from the window. He flung himself on Bridges and pulled the big man backwards. "Bridges, this one's mine! Try any of the others, you can have them all!" Bridges jerked himself to his feet, staring down angrily at Shepley. Traxel peered suspiciously at the other tombs, their porticos still flooded with sand. "What's so interesting about this one, Shepley?" he asked sardonically. Bridges roared and slammed a boot into the casement, knocking out one of the panels. Shepley dived onto his shoulders, and Bridges snarled and flung him against the wall. Before Shepley could duck he swung a heavy left cross to Shepley 's mouth, knocking him back onto the sand with a bloody face. Traxel roared with amusement as Shepley lay there stunned, then knelt down, sympathetically examinIF ing Shepley's face in the light thrown by the expanding persona within the tomb. Bridges whooped with surprise, gaping like a startled ape at the sumptuous golden mirage of the enchantress. "How did you find me?" Shepley muttered thickly. "I doubletracked a dozen times." Traxel smiled. "We didn't follow you, chum. We followed the rail." He pointed down at the silver thread of the metal strip, plainly visible in the dawn light almost ten miles away. "The gyro-car cleaned the rail, it led us straight here. Ah, hello. Doctor," he greeted the Old Man as he climbed the slope and slumped down wearily beside Shepley. "I take it we have you to thank for this discovery. Don't worry. Doctor, I shan't forget you." "Many thanks," the Old Man said flatly. He helped Shepley to sit up, frowning at his split lips. "Aren't you taking everything too seriously, Traxel? You're becoming crazed with greed. Let the boy have this tomb. There are plenty more." The patterns of light across the sand dimmed and broke as Bridges plunged through the persona towards the rear of the chancel. Weakly Shepley tried to stand up, but the Old Man held him back. Traxel shrugged. "Too late, Doctor." He looked over his shoulder at the persona, ruefully shaking his head in acknowledgment of its magnificence. "These #th Dynasty graves are stupendous. But there's something curious about this one." H e was still staring at it reflectively a minute later when Bridges emerged. "Boy, that was a crazy one, Traxel! For a second I thought it was a dud." He handed the three canisters to Traxel, who weighed two oTthem in one hand against the other. Bridges added: "Kinda  light, aren't they?" Traxel began to pry them open with a wrench. "Are you certain there are no more in there?" "Hundred per cent. Have a look yourself." Two of the cans were empty, the tape spools missing. The third was only half full, a mere three-inch width of tape in its center. Bridges bellowed in pain: "The kid robbed us. I can't believe it!" Traxel waved him away and went over to the Old Man, who was staring in at the now flickering persona. The two men exchanged glances, then nodded slowly in confirmation. With a short laugh Traxel kicked at the can containing the half reel of tape, jerking the spool out onto the sand, where it began to unravel in the quietly moving air. Bridges protested but Traxel shook his head. "It is a dud. Go and have a close look at the image." When Bridges peered at it blankly he explained: "The woman there was dead when the matrices were recorded. She's beautiful all right -- as poor Shepley here discovered -- but it's all too literally skin deep. That's why there's only half a can of data. No nervous system, no musculature or internal CH-gans  Imt a beautiful gdden husk. This is a mortuary tomb. If you resurrected her you'd have an ice-cold corpse on your hands." "But why?" Bridges rasped. "What's the point?" Traxel gestured expansively. "It's immortality of a kind. Perhaps she died suddenly, and this was the next best thing. When the Doctor first came here there were a lot of mortuary tombs of young children being found. If I remember he had something of a reputation for always leaving them intact. A typical piece of highbrow sentimentality -- giving immortality only to the dead. Agree, Doctor?" Before the Old Man could reply a voice shouted from below, there was a nearby roaring hiss of an ascending signal rocket and a vivid red star-shell burst over the lake below, spitting incandescent fragments over them. Traxel and Bridges leapt forwards, saw two men in a sandcar pointing up at them, three mce vehicles converging across the lake half a mile away. "The time-wardens!" Traxel shouted. Bridges picked up the tool bag and the two men raced across the slope towards the half-track, the Old Man hobbling after them. He turned back towait for Shepley, who was still sitting on the ground where he had fallen, watching the image inside the pavilion. "Shepley! Come on, lad, pull yourself together! You'll get ten years!" When Shepley made no reply he reached up to the side of the halftrack as Traxel reversed it expertly out of the morraine of sand, let Bridges swing him aboard. "Shepley!" he called again. Traxel hesitated, then roared away as a second star-shell exploded. S hepley tried to reach the tape, but the stampeding feet had severed it at several points, and the loose ends, which he had numbly thought of trying to reinsert into the projector, now fluttered around him in the sand. Below, he could hear the sounds of flight and pursuit, the warning crack of a rifle, engines baying and plunging, as Traxel eluded the timewar dens, but he kept his eyes fixed on the image within the tomb. Already it had begun to fragment, fading against the mounting sunlight. Getting slowly to his feet, he entered the tomb and closed the battered doors. Still magnificent upon her bier, the enchantress lay back between the great wings. Motionless for so long, she had at last been galvanized into life, and a jerking syncopated rhythm rippled through her body. The wings shook uneasily, and a series of tremors disturbed the base of the catafalque, so that the woman's feet danced an exquisitely flickering minuet, the toes darting from side to side with untiring speed. Higher up, her wide smooth hips jostled each other in a jaunty mock tango. He watched until only the face remained, a few disconnected traces of the wings and catafalque jerking ir faintly in the darkness, then made his way out of the tomb. Outside, in the cool morning light, the time-wardens were waiting for him, hands on the hips of their white uniforms. One was holding the empty canisters, turning the fluttering strands of tape over with his foot as they drifted away. The other took Shepley's arm and steered him down to the car. "Traxel's gang," he said to the driver. "This must be a new recruit." He glanced dourly at the blood around Shepley's mouth. "Looks as if they've been fighting over the spoils." The driver pointed to the three drums. "Stripped?" The man carrying them nodded. "All three. And they were #th Dynasty." He shackled Shepley's wrists to the dashboard. "Too bad, son, you'll be doing ten yourself soon. It'll seem like ten thousand." "Unless it was a dud," the driver rejoined, eyeing Shepley with some sympathy. "You know, one of those freak mortuary tombs," Shepley straightened his bruised mouth. "It wasn't," he said firmly. The driver glanced warningly at the other wardens. "What about the tape blowing away up there?" Shepley looked up at the tomb spluttering faintly below the ridge, its light almost gone. "That's just the persona," he said. "The empty skin." As the engine surged forward he listened to the three empty drums hit the floor behind the seat LY at New York, N.Y., for Oct. #, #. #. The names and addresses of the ublisher, editor, managing editor, and usiness managers are: Publisher. Sol Cohen, #I Hudson St., New York #, N.Y.; Editor, Frederik Pohl, #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. ; Managing Editor, None; Business Manager, Ine. #. The owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a partnership or other un-incorporated firm, its name and address, as well as that of each individual member, must be given.) Digest Publishing Corporation, #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y., Robert M. Guinn (sole stockholder), #I Hudson St.; New York #. N. Y. #. The known bondholder, mortgages, and other security holders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state.) None. #. Paragraphs # and # Include, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting; also the statements in the two paragraphs show the affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner. #. The average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the malls or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the # months preceding the date shown above was: #(X). (This information Is required by the act of June #, # to be Included in all statements regardless of frequency of Issue.) Sworn to and subscribed before me this #st day of September. #. Jacques N. Click, Notary Public (Commission expires March SO, #) SI IF Novelette Blast you, Retief! Your violent ways are the disgrace of Earth's diplomatic corps -- but your salty jokes are worse! I C onsul-General Magnan gfneerlv fingered the heavily rubberbanded sheaf of dog-eared documents. haven't rushed into nrecipitate action on this claim. Retief," he said "The Consulate has crave responsibilities here in the Belt One must weigh all aspects of the situation, consider the ramifications. What consequences would arise from a crant of minerals rights on the planetoid to this claimant?' "The claim looked all right to me," Retief said "Seventeen copies with attachments vVhv not process it? You've had it on your desk for a week." Magnans eyebrows went np. ir You've a personal interest in this claim, Retief? "Every day you wait is costing them money. That hulk they use for an ore-carrier is in a parking orbit piling up demurrage." "I see you've become emotionally involved in the affairs of a group of obscure miners. You haven't yet learned the true diplomat's happy faculty of non-identification with specifics -- or should I say identification with non-specifics?" "They're not a wealthy outfit, you know. In fact, I understand this claim is their sole asset -- unless you want to count the ore-carrier." "The Consulate is not concerned with the internal financial problems of the Sam's Last Chance Number Nine Mining Company." "Careful," Retief said. "You almost identified yourself with a specific that time." "Hardly, my dear Retief," Magnan said blandly. "The implication is mightier than the affidavit. You should study the records of the giants of galactic diplomacy: Crodfoller, Passwyn, Spradley, Nitworth, Stemwheeler, Rumpwhistle. The roll-caU of those names rings like the majestic tread of...of... "Dinosaurs?" Retief suggested. "An apt simile," Magnan nodded. "Those mighty figures, those armored hides --  "Those tiny brains -- " Magnan smiled sadly. "I see you're indulging your penchant for distorted facetiae. Perhaps one day you'll learn their true worth." U "I already have my suspicions." The intercom chimed. Miss Gumble's features appeared on the desk screen. "Mr. Leatherwell to see you, Mr. Magnan. He has no appointment -- " Magnan's eyebrows went up. "Send Mr. Leatherwell right in." He looked at Retief. "I had no idea Leatherwell was planning a call. I wonder what he's after?" Magnan looked anxious. "He's an important figure in Belt minerals circles. It's important to avoid arousing antagonism, while maintaining non-commitment. You may as well stay. You might pick up some valuable pointers technique-wise." T he door swung wide. Leatherwell strode into the room, his massive paunch buckled into fashionable vests of turquoise velvet and hung with the latest in fluorescent watch charms. He extended a large palm and pumped Magnan's flaccid arm vigorously. "Ah, there, Mr. Consul-General. Good of you to receive me." He wiped his hand absently on his thigh, eyeing Retief questioningly. "Mr. Retief. my Vice-Consul and Minerals Officer," Magnan said. "Do take a chair, Mr. Leatherwell. In what capacity can I serve today?" "I am here, gentlemen," Leatherwell said, putting an immense yellow briefcase on Magnan's desk and settling himself in a power rocker, "on behalf of my company. General Minerals. General Minerds has long been aware, gentlemen, of the ausIF tere conditfons obtaining here in the Belt, to which public servants like yourselves are subjected." Leatherwell bobbed with the pitch of the rocker, smiling complacently at Magnan. "General Minerals is more than a great industrial combine. It is an organization with a heart." Leatherwell reached for his breast pocket, missed, tried again. "How do you turn this damned thing off?" he growled. Magnan half-rose, peering over Leatherwell's briefcase. "The switch just there -- on the arm." The executive fumbled. There was a dicky and the chair subsided with a sigh of compressed air. "That's better." Leatherwell drew out a long slip of blue paper. "To alleviate the Wedom and brighten the lives of that hardy group of Terrestrials laboring here on Ceres to bring free enterprise to the Belt, General Minerals is presenting to the Consulate -- on their behalf -- one hundred thousand credits for the construction of a Joy Center, to be equipped with the latest and finest in recreational equipment, including a Gourmet Model C banquet synthesizer, a forty-foot sublimation chamber, a five thousand tape library -- with a number of choice items unobtainable in Boston -- a twentyfoot Tri-D tank and other amenities too numerous to mention." Leatherwell leaned back, beaming expectantly. "Why, Mr. Leatherwell. We're overwhelmed, of course." Magnan smiled dazedly past the briefcase. "But I wonder if ifs quite proper... "The gift is to the people, Mr. Consul. You merely accept on their behalf." "I wonder if General Minerals realizes that the hardy Terrestrials laboring on Ceres are limited "to the Consular staff?" Retief said. "And the staff consists of Mr. Magnan, Miss Gumble and myself." "Mr. Leatherwell is hardly interested in these details, Retief," Magnan cut in. "A public-spirited offer indeed, sir. As Terrestrial Consul -- and on behalf of all Terrestrials here in the Belt -- I accept with a humble awareness of -- " "Now, there was one other little matter." Leatherwell leaned forward to open the briefcase, glancing over Magnan's littered desktop. He extracted a bundle of papers, dropped them on the desk, then drew out a heavy document and passed it across to Magnan. "Just a routine claim. I'd like to see it rushed through, as we have in mind some loading operations in die vicinity next week." "Certainly Mr, Leatherwell." Magnan glanced at the papers, paused to read. He looked up. "Ah -- " "Something the matter, Mr. Consul?" Leatherwell demanded. "It's just that -- ah -- I seem to recall -- as a matter of fact..." Magnan looked at Retief. Retief took the papers, looked over the top sheet. "#-A. Sorry, Mr. Leatherwell. General Minerals has been anticipated. We're processing a prior claim." "Prior claim?" Leatherwell barked. "You've issued the grant?" "Oh, no indeed, Mr. Leatherwell," Magnanf replied quickly. "The claim hasn't yet been processed." "Then there's no difficulty," Leatherwell boomed. He glanced at his finger watch. "If you don't mind, m wait and take the grant along with me. I assume it will only take a minute or two to sign it and affix seals and so on?" "The other claim was filed a full week ago -- " Retief started. "Bah!" Leatherwell waved a hand impatiently. "These details can be arranged." He fixed an eye on Magnan. "I'm sure all of us here understand that it's in the public interest that minerals properties go to responsible firms, with adequate capital for proper development." "Why, ah," Magnan said. "The Sam's Last Chance Number Nine Mining Company is a duly chartered firm. Their claim is valid." "I know that hole-in-comer concern," Leatherwell snapped. "Mere irresponsible opportunists. General lions, I say -- of the stockholders' funds in minerals explorations. Are they to be balked in realizing a fair return on their investment because these... these... adventures have stumbled on a deposit? Not that the property is of any real value, of course," he added. "Quite an ordinary bit of rock. But General Minerals would find it convenient to consolidate its holdings." "There are plenty of other rocks floating around in the Belt. Why not -- " "One moment, Retief," Magnan cut in. He looked across the desk at his junior with a severe expression. "As Consul-General, I'm quite capable of determining the relative merits of claims. As Mr. Leatherwell has pointed out, it's in the public interest to consider the question in depth." Leatherwell cleared his throat. "I might state at this time that General Minerals is prepared to be generous in dealing with these interlopers. I believe we would be prepared to go so far as to offer them free title to certain GM holdings in exchange for their release of any alleged rights to the property in question -- merely to simplify matters, of course." "That seems more than fair to me," Magnan glowed. "The Sam's people have a clear priority," Retief said. "I logged the claim in last Friday." "They have far from a clear title." Leatherwell snapped. "And I can assure you GM will contest their claim, if need be, to the Supreme CourtI" "Just what holdings did you have in mind offering them, Mr. Leatherwell?" Magnan asked nervously. Leatherwell reached into his briefcase and drew out a paper. "#-P," he read. "A quite massive body. Crustal material, I imagine. It should satisfy these squatters' IF desire to own real estate in the Belt. "Fll make a note of that," Magnan said, reaching for a pad. "That's a Bona Fide offer, Mr. Leatherwell?" Relief asked. "Certainly!" "I'll record it as such," Magnan said, scribbling. "And who knows?" Leatherwell said. "It may turn out to contain some surprisingly rich finds." "And if they won't accept it?" Relief asked. "Then I daresay General Minerals will find a remedy in the courts, sir!" "Oh, I hardly think that will be necessary," Magnan said. "Then there's another routine matter," Leatherwell said. He passed a second document across to Magnan. "GM is requesting an injunction to restrain these same parties from aggravated trespass. I'd appreciate it if you'd push it through at once. There's a matter of a load of illegally obtained ore involved, as well." "Certainly Mr. Leatherwell. I'll see to it myself." "No need for that. The papers are all drawn up. Our legal department will vouch for their correctness. Just sign here." Leatherwell spread out the paper and handed Magnan a pen. "Wouldn't it be a good idea to read that over first?" Relief said. L eatherwell frowned impatiently. "You'll have adequate time to familiarize yourself with the details later, Relief," Magnan snapped, taking the pen. "No need to waste Mr. Leatherwell's valuable time." He scratched a signature on the paper. Leatherwell rose, gathered up his papers from Magnan's desk, dumped them into the briefcase. "Riff-raff, of course. Their kind has no business in the Belt." Relief rose, crossed to the desk, and held out a hand. "I believe you gathered in an official document along with your own, Mr. Leatherwell. By error, of course." "What's that?" Leatherwell bridled. Relief smiled, waiting. Magnan opened his mouth. "It was under your papers, Mr. Leatherwell," Relief said. "It's the thick one, with the rubber bands." Leatherwell dug in his briefcase, produced the document. "Well, fancy finding this here," he growled. He shoved the papers into Relief's hand. "You're a very observant young fellow." He closed the briefcase with a snap. "I trust you'll have a bright "Really, Relief," Magnan said reprovingly. "There was no need to trouble Mr. Leatherwell." Leatherwell directed a sharp look at Relief and a bland one at Magnan. "I trust you'll communicate the proposal to the interested parties. Inasmuch as time is of the essence of the GM position, our offer can only be held open until # Greenwich, tomorrow. I'll call again at that time to finalize matters. I trust there'll be no impediment to a satisfactory settlement at that time. I should dislike to embark on lengthy litigation." Magnan hurried around his desk to open the door. He turned bacfk to fix Retief widi an exasperated fixwn. crass display of boorishness, Retief," he snapped. "YouVe embarrassed a most mfhiential member of the business community -- and for nothing more than a few miserable forms." "Those forms represent somebody's stake in what might be a valuable property." "They're mere paper until they've been processedi" "Still -- " "My responsibility is to the Public interest -- not to a fly-by-night group of prospectors." "They found it first." "Bah! A worthless rock. After Mr. Leatherwell's munificent gesture --  "Better rush his check through before he thinks it over and changes his mind." "Good heavens!" Magnan clutched the check, buzzed for Miss Gumble. She swept in, took Magnan's instructions and left. Retief waited while Magnan glanced over the injunction. then nodded. "Quite in order. A person called Sam Mancziewicz appears to be the principal. Tlie address given is the Jolly Barge Hotel; that would be that converted derelict ship in orbit #, I assume?" Retief nodded. "That's what they caD it." "As for the ore-carrier. I'd best impound it, pending the settlement of the matter." Magnan drew a form from a drawer, filled in blanks, shoved the paper across the desk. He turned and consisted a wcdl chart. "Tile hotel is nearby at the moment, as it happens. Take the Consulate dinghy. If you get out there right away, you'll catch them before the evening binge has developed fully." "I take it that's your diplomatic way of telling me that I'm now a process server." Retief took the papers and tucked them into an inside pocket. "One of the many functions a diplomat is called on to perform in a small consular post. Excellent experience. I needn't warn you to be circumspect. These miners are an unruly lot -- especially when receiving bad news." "Aren't we all." Retief rose. "I don't suppose there's any prospect of your signing off that claim so that I can take a little good news along, too?" "None whatever," Magnan snapped. "They've been made a most generous offer. If that fails to satisfy them, they have recourse through the courts." "Fighting a suit like that costs money. The Sam's Last Chance Mining Company hasn't got any." "Need I remind you --  "I know. That's none of our concem.' "On your way out," Magnan said as Retief turned to the door, "ask Miss Gumble to bring in the Gourmet catalog from the Commercial Library. I want to check on the specifications of the Model C Banquet synthesizer." An hour later, nine hundred miles R from Ceres and fast approaching the Jolly Barge Hotel, Retief keyed the skiffs transmitter. VO-#." prompt voice came back. A flickering image appeared on the small screen. "Oh, hi there, Mr. Retief. What brings you out in the cold night air?" "Hello, Henry. I'm estimating the Jolly Barge in ten minutes. It looks like a busy night ahead. I may be moving around a little. How about keeping an eye on me? I'll be carrying a personnel beacon. Monitor it, and if I switch it into high, come in fast. I can't afford to be held up. I've got a big meeting in the morning." "Sure thing, Mr. Retief. We'll keep an eye open." R etief dropped a ten-credit note on the bar, accepted a glass and a squat bottle of black Marsberry brandy and turned to survey the lowceilinged room, a former hydroponics deck now known as the Jungle Bar. Under the low ceiling, unpruned Ipomoea batafas and Lathyrus odoratus vines sprawled in a tangle that filtered the light of the S-spectrum glare panels to a muted green. A six-foot trideo screen, salvaged from the wreck of a Concordiat transport, blared taped music in the style of two centuries past. At the tables, heavy-shouldered men in brightdyed suit liners played cards, clanked bottles and shouted. Carrying the bottle and glass, Retief moved across to an empty chair at one of the tables. "You gentlemen mind if I join you?" Five unshaven faces turned to study Relief's six foot three, his dose cut black hair, his non-commital gray coverall the scars on his knuckles. A redhead with a broken nose nodded. "Pull up a chair, stranger." "You workin' a claim, pardner?" "Just looking around." "Try a shot of this rock juice." "Don't do it. Mister. He makes it himself." "Best rock juice this side of Luna." "Say, feller -- " "The name's Retief." "Retief, you ever play Drift?" "Can't say that I did." "Don't gamble with Sam, pardner. He's the local champ." "How do you play it?" The black-browed miner who had suggested the game rolled back his sleeve to reveal a sinewy forearm, put his elbow on the table. "You hook forefingers, and put a glass right up on top. The man that takes a swallow wins. If the drink spills, it's drinks for the house." "A man don't often win outright," the redhead said cheerfully. "But it makes for plenty of drinkin'." Retief put his elbow on the table. "I'll give it a try." The two men hooked forefingers. The redhead poured a tumbler half full of rock juice, placed it atop the two fists. "Okay, boys. G#I" ap The man named Sam gritted his teeth; his biceps tensed, knuckles grew white. The glass trembled. Then it moved -- toward Retief. Sam hunched his shoulders, straining. "That's the stuff, Misterl" "What's the matter, Sam? You tired?" The glass moved steadily closer to Relief's face. "A hundred the new man makes it!" "Watch Sam! Any minute now... The glass slowed, paused. Relief's wrist twitched and the glass crashed to the table top. A shout went up. Sam leaned back with a sigh, massaging his hand. "That's some arm you got, Mister," he said. "If you hadn't jumped just then..." "I guess the drinks are on me," Retief said. T wo hours later Relief's Marsberry bottle stood empty on the table beside half a dozen others. "We were lucky," Sam Mancziewicz was saying. "You figure the original volume of the planet; say # cubic miles. The deBerry theory calls for a collapsedcrystal core no more than a mile in diameter. There's your odds." "And you believe you've found a fragment of this core?" "Damn right we have. Couple of three credits a ton delivered at Port Syrtis, we're set for life. About time, too Twenty years I've been in the Belt. Got two kids I haven't seen for five years. Things are going to be different now." "Hey, Sam; tone it down. You don't have to broadcast to every claim jumper in the Belt." "Our claim's on file at the Consulate," Sam said. "As soon as we get the grant -- " "When's that gonna be? We been waitin' a week now." "I've never seen any collapsedcrystal metal," Retief said. "I'd like to take a look at it." "Sure. Come on, I'll run you over. It's about an hour's run. We'll take our skiff. You want to go along, WiUy?" "I got a bottle to go," Willy said. "See you in the morning." The two men descended in the lift to the boat bay, suited up and strapped into the cramped boat. A bored attendant cycled the launch doors, levered the release that propelled the skiff out and clear of the Jolly Barge Hotel. Retief caught a glimpse of a tower of lights spinning majestically against the black of space as the drive hurled the tiny boat away. m R eliefs feet sank ankle deep into the powdery surface that glinted like snow in the glare of the distant sun. "It's funny stuff," Sam's voice sounded in his ear. "Under a gee of gravity, you'd sink out of sight. The stuff cuts diamond like butter -- but IF temperature changes break it down into a powder. A lot of it's used just like this, as an industrial abrasive. Easy to load, too. Just drop a suction line, put on ambient pressure and start pumping." "And this whole rock is made of the same material?" "Sure is. We ran plenty of test bores and a full schedule of soundings. I've got the reports back aboard Gertie -- that's our lighter." "And you've already loaded a cargo here?" "Yep. We're running out of capital fast. I need to get that cargo to port in a hurry -- before the outfit goes into involuntary bankruptcy. With this, that'd be a crime." "What do you know about General Minerals, Sam?" "You thinking of hiring on with them? Better read the fine print in your contract before you sign. Sneakiest bunch this side of a burglar's convention." "They own a chunk of rock known as #-P. Do you suppose we could find it?" "Oh, you're buying it, hey? Sure, we can find it. You damn sure want to look it over good if General Minerals is selling." Back aboard the skiff, Mancziewicz flipped the pages of the chart book, consulted a table. "Yep, she's not too far off. Let's go see what GM's trying to unload." T he skiff hovered two miles from the giant boulder known as #P. Retief and Mancziewicz looked it over at high magnification. "It don't look like much, Retief," Sam said. "Let's go down and take a closer look." The boat dropped rapidly toward the scarred surface of the tiny world, a floating mountain, glaring black and white in the spotlight of the sun. Sam frowned at his instrument panel. "That's funny. My ion counter is revving up. Looks like a drive trail, not more than an hour or two old. Somebody's been here." The boat grounded. Retief and Sam got out. The stony surface was littered with rock fragments varying in size from pebbles to great slabs twenty feet long, tumbled in a loose bed of dust and sand. Retief pushed off gently, drifted up to a vantage point atop an upended wedge of rock. Sam joined him. "This is all igneous stuff," he said. "Not likely we'll find much here that would pay the freight to Syrtis -- unless maybe you lucked onto some Bodean artifacts. They bring plenty." He flipped a binocular in place as he talked, scanned the riven landscape. "Hey!" he said. "Over there I" Retif followed Sam's pointing glove. He studied the dark patch against a smooth expanse of eroded rock. "A friend of mine came across a chunk of the old planetary surface two years ago," Sam said thoughtfully. "Had a tunnel in it that'd been used as a storage depot by the Bodeans. Took out over two ton of hardware. Course, nobody's discovered how the stu works yet, but it brings top prices." "Looks like water erosion," Retief said. "Yep. This could be another piece of surface, all right. Could be a cave over there. The Bodeans liked caves, too. Must have been some war -- but then, if it hadn't been, they wouldn't have tucked so much stuff away underground where it could weather the planetary breakup." They descended, crossed the jumbled rocks with light, thirty-foot leaps. "It's a cave, all right," Sam said, stooping to peer into the five-foot bore. Retief followed him inside. "Let's get some light in here." Mancziewicz flipped on a beam. It glinted back from dull polished surfaces of Bodean synthetic. Sam's low whistle sounded in Relief's headset. "That's funny," Retief said. "Funny, hell! It's hilarious. General Minerals trying to seU off a worthless rock to a tenderfoot -- and it's loaded with Bodean artifacts. No telling how much is here; the tunnel seems to go quite a ways back." "That's not what I mean. Do you notice your suit warming up?" 'Huh? Yeah, now that you mention it" Retief rapped with a gauntleted hand on the satiny black curve of the nearest Bodean artifact. It clunked dully through the suit "That's not metal," he said. "It's plastic." S# "There's something fishy here," Sam said. "This erosion; it looks more like a heat beam." "Sam," Retief said, turning, "it appears to me somebody has gone to a great deal of trouble to give a false impression here." S am snorted. "I told you they were a crafty bunch." He started out of the cave, then paused, went to one knee to study the floor. "But maybe they outsmarted themselves. Look here!" Retief looked. Sam's beam reflected from a fused surface of milky white, shot through with dirty yellow. He snapped a pointed instrument in place on his gauntlet, dug at one of the yellow streaks. It furrowed under the gouge, a particle adhering to the instrument. With his left hand, Mancziewicz opened a pouch clipped to his belt, carefully deposited the sample in a small orifice on the device in the pouch. He flipped a key, squinted at a dial. "Atomic weight #," he said. Retief turned down the audio volume on his headset as Sam's laughter rang in his helmet. "Those clowns were out to stick you, Retiet," he gasped, still chuckling. "They salted the rock with a cave full of Bodean artifacts -- " "Fake Bodean artifacts," Retief put m. "They planed off the rock so it would look like an old beach, and then cut this cave with beamers. And they were boring through practically solid goldl" IP "As good as that?' Mancziewicz flashed the light around. "This stuff will assay out at a thousand credits a ton, easy. If the vein doesn't run to five thousand tons, the beers are on me." He snapped off the light. "Let's get moving, Retief. You want to sew his deal up before they get around to taking another look at it." Back in the boat, Retief and Mancziewicz opened their helmets. "This calls for a drink," Sam said, extracting a pressure flask from the map case. "This rock's worth as much as mine, maybe more. You hit it lucky, Retief. Congratulations." He thrust out a hand. "I'm afraid you've jumped to a couple of conclusions, Sam," Retief said. "I'm not out here to buy mining properties." "You're not -- then why -- but man! Even if you didn't figure on buying..." He trailed off as Retief shook his head, unzipped his suit to reach to an inside pocket, take out a packet of folded papers. "In my capacity as Terrestrial Vice-Consul, I'm serving you with an injunction restraining you from further exploitation of the body known as #-A." He handed a paper across to Sam. "I also have here an Order impounding the vessel Gravel Gertie ." Sam took the papers silently, sat looking at them. He looked up at Retief. "Funny. When you beat me at Drift and then threw the game so you wouldn't show me up in front of the boys, I figured you for a right to you like you were my old grandma. An old-timer in the game like me." He dropped a hand, brought it up with a Browning #mm pointed al Retief's chest. "I could shoot you and dump you here with a slab over you, toss these papers in the john and hightail it with the load... "That wouldn't do you much good in the long run, Sam. Besides you're not a criminal or an idiot." S am chewed s lip. "My claim is on file in the Consulate, legd and proper. Maybe by now the grant's gone through." "Other people have their eye on your rock, Sam. Ever meet a fellow called Leatherwell?" "General Minerals, huh? They haven't got a leg to stand on." "The last time I saw your claim, it was still lying in the pending file. Just a bundle of paper until it's validated by the Consul. If Leatherwell contests it...well, his lawyers are on annual retainer. How long could you keep the suit going, Sam?" Mancziewicz closed his helmet with a decisive snap, motioned to Retief to do the same. He opened the hatch, sat with the gun on Retief. "Get out, paper-pusher." His voice sounded thin in the headphones. "You'll get lonesome, maybe, but your suit will keep you alive a few days. I'll tip somebody off before you lose too much weight. Fm going back and see if I can't stir up a litde action at the Consulate." Relief climbed out, walked off fifty yards. He watched as the skiff kicked off in a quickly dispersed cloud of dust, dwindled rapidly away to a bright speck that was lost against the stars. Then he extracted the locator beacon from the pocket of his suit and thumbed the control. Twenty minutes later, aboard Navy FP-VO-#, Relief pulled off his helmet. "Fast work, Henry. I've got a couple of calls to make. Put me through to your HQ, will you? I want a word with Commander Hayle." The young naval officer raised the HO. handed the mike to Relief. "Vice-Consul Relief here. Commander. I'd like you to intercept a skiff, bound from my present position toward Ceres. There's a Mr. Mancziewicz aboard. He's armed, but not dangerous. Collect him and see that he's delivered to the Consulate at # Greenwich tomorrow. "Next item: The Consulate has impounded an ore-carrier. Gravel Ger tie II. It's a parking orbit ten miles off Ceres. I want it taken in tow." Relief gave detailed instruction. Then he asked for a connection through the Navy switchboard to the Consulate. Magnan's voice answered. "Relief speaking, Mr. Consul. I have some news that I think will interest yoq -- " "Where are you. Relief? What's wtong with the screen? Have you served the injunction?" "I'm aboard the Navy patrol vessel. I've been out looking over the situation, and I've made a surprising discovery. I don't think we're going to have any trouble with the Sam's people; they've looked over the body -- #-P -- and it seems General Minerals has slipped up. There appears to be a highly valuable deposit there." "Oh? What sort of deposit?" "Mr. Mancziewicz mentioned collapsed crystal metal," Relief said. "Well, most interesting." Magnan's voice sounded thoughtful. "Just thought you'd like to know. This should simplify the meeting in the morning. "Yes," Magnan said. "Yes, indeed. I think this makes everything very simple... A t # Greenwich, Relief stepped into the outer office of the Consular suite. "... fantastic configuration," Leatherwell's bass voice rumbled, "covering literally acres. My xenogeologists are somewhat confused by the formations. They had only a few hours to examine the site; but it's clear from the extent of the surface indications that we have a very rich find here. Very rich indeed. Beside it, #-A dwindles into insignificance. Very fast thinking on your part, Mr. Consul, to bring the matter to my attenion." "Not at all, Mr. Leatherwell. After all-" "Our tentative theory is that the basic crystal fragment encountered the core material at some time, and gathered it in. Since we had been working on -- that is, had landed to take samples on the other side of the IF body, this anomalous deposit escaped our attention completely." Retief stepped into the room. "Good morning, gentlemen. Has Mr. Mancziewicz arrived?" "Mr. Mancziewicz is under restraint by the Navy. I've had a call that he'd be escorted here." "Arrested, eh?" Leatherwell nodded. "I told you these people were an irresponsible group. In a way it seems a pity to waste a piece of property like #-A on them." "I understood General Minerals was claiming that rock," Retief said, looking surprised. Leatherwell and Magnan exchanged glances. "Ah, GM has decided to drop all claim to the body," Leatherwell said. "As always, we wish to encourage enterprise on the part of the small operators. Let them keep the property. After all GM has other deposits well worth exploiting." He smiled complacently. "What about #-P? You've offered it to the Sam's group." "That offer is naturally withdrawn!" Leatherwell snapped. "I don't see how you can withdraw the offer," Retief said. "It's been officially recorded. It's a Bona Fide contract, binding on General Minerals, subject to -- " "Out of the goodness of our corporate heart," Leatherwell roared, "we've offered to relinquish our legitimate, rightful claim to asteroid #-P. And you have the infernal gall to spout legal technicalities! I have half a mind to withdraw my offer to withdraw!" "Actually," Magnan put in, eyeing a corner of the room, "I'm not at all sure I could turn up the record of the offer of #-P. I noted it down on a bit of scratch paper -- " "That's all right," Retief said, "I had my pocket recorder going. I sealed the record and deposited it in the Consular archives." There was a clatter of feet outside. Miss Gumble appeared on the desk screen. "There are a number of persons here -- " she began. T he door banged open. Sam Mancziewicz stepped into the room, a sailor tugging at each arm. He shook them loose, stared around the room. His eyes lighted on Retief. "How did you get here...?" "Look here, Monkeywits or whatever your name is," Leatherwell began, popping out of his chair. Mancziewicz whirled, seized the stout executive by the shirt front and lifted him onto his tiptoes. "You double-barrelled copper-bottomed oak-lined son-of-a -- " "Don't spoil him, Sam," Retief said casually. "He's here to sign off all rights -- if any -- to #-A. It's all yours -- if you want it." Sam glared into Leatherwell's eyes. "That right?" he grated. Leatherwell bobbed his head, his chins compressed into bulging folds. "However," Retief went on, "I wasn't at all sure you'd still be agreeable, since he's made your company a binding offer of #-P in return for clear title to #-A." Mancziewicz looked across at Retief with narrowed eyes. He released Leatherwell, who slumped into his chair. Magnan darted around his desk to minister to the magnate. Behind them, Retief closed one eye in a broad wink at Mancziewicz...still, if Mr. Leatherwell will agree, in addition to guaranteeing your title to #-A, to purchase your output at four credits a ton, Mancziewicz looked at Leatherwell. Leatherwell hesitated, then nodded. "Agreed," he croaked. "...and to open his commissary and postal facilities to all prospectors operating in the belt..." Leatherwell swallowed, eyes bulging, glanced at Mancziewicz's face. He nodded. "Agreed."...then I think Pd sign an agreement releasing him from his offer." Mancziewicz looked at Magnan. "You're the Terrestrial ConsulGeneral," he said. "Is that the straight goods?" Magnan nodded. "If Mr. Leatherwell agrees --  "He's already agreed," Retief said. "My pocket recorder, you know." "Put it in writing," Mancziewicz said. Magnan called in Miss Gumble. The others waited silently while Magnan dictated. He signed the paper with a flourish, passed it across to Mancziewicz. He read it, re-read it, then picked up the pen and signed. Magnan impressed the Consular seal on the paper. "Now the grant," Retief said. Magnan signed the claim, added a seal. Mancziewicz tucked the papers away in an inner pocket. He rose. "Well, gents, I guess maybe I had you figured wrong," he said. He looked at Retief. "Uh...got time for a drink?" "I shouldn't drink during office hours," Retief said. He rose. "So I'll take the rest of the day off." #T don't get it," Sam said signalX ling for refills. "What was the routine with the injunction -- and impounding Gertie? You could have got hurt." "I don't think so," Retief said. "If you'd meant business with that Browning, you'd have flipped the safety off. As for the injunction -- orders are orders." "I've been thinking," Sam said. "That gold deposit. It was a plant, too, wasn't it?" "I'm just a bureaucrat, Sam. What would I know about gold?" "A double-salting job," Sam said. "I was supposed to spot the phoney hardware -- and then fall for the gold plant. When Leatherwell put his proposition to me. I'd grab it. The gold was worth plenty, I'd figure, and I couldn't afford a legal tangle with General Minerals. The lousy skunki And you must have spotted it and put it up to him." The bar-tender leaned across to Retief. "Wanted on the phone." In the booth, Magnan's agitated face stared a Retief. "Retief, Mr. Leatherwell's in a towering rage! The deposit on #P; it was merely a surface film, barcIP ly a few inches thick! The entire deposit wouldn't fill an ore-boat." A horrified expression dawned on Magnan's face. "Retief," he gasped, "what did you do with the impounded ore-carrier?" "Well, let me see," Retief said. "According to the Space Navigation Code, a body in orbit within twenty miles of any inhabited airless body constitutes a navigational hazard. Accordingly, I had it towed away." "And the cargo?" "Well, accelerating all that mass was an expensive business, so to save the taxpayer's credits, I had it dumped." "Where?" Magnan croaked. "On some unimportant asteroid -- as specified by Regulations." He smiled blandly at Magnan. Magnan looked back numbly. "But you said -- " "All I said was that there was what looked like a valuable deposit on #-P. It turned out to be a bogus gold mine that somebody had rigged up in a hurry. Curious, eh?" "But you told me -- " "And you told Mr. Leatherwell. Indiscreet of you, Mr. Consul. That was a privileged communication; classified information, official use only." "You led me to believe there was collapsed crystal!" "I said Sam had mentioned it. He told me his asteroid was made of the stuff." Magnan swallowed hard, twice. "By the way," he said dully. "You were right about the check. Half an hour ago Mr. Leatherwell tried to stop payment. He was too late." "All in all, it's been a big day for Leatherwell," Retief said. "Anything else?" "I hope not," Magnan said. "I sincerely hope not." He leaned close to the screen. "You'll consider the entire affair as...confidential? There's no point in unduly complicating relationships." "Have no fear, Mr. Consul," Retief said cheerfully. "You won't find me identifying with anything as specific as triple-salting an asteroid." Back at the table, Sam called for another bottle of rock juice. "That Drift's a pretty good game," Retief said. "But let me show you one I learned out on Yill..." sues; complete. # #. # issues, complete. # #. # separate copies of T H B I I I #. Complete bound set of SF DINo "Cosmos" chapters), #-#  # ton Smith. # #'s, contains some H. P. Lovecraft items), # issues for # plete. # # Issues. # #. # #-#. # #I #th Ave., Brooklyn #, N. Y. IF  Short Story The Abandoned have nei ther rights nor hopes. They only have revenge! A fter her husband left her, Marigold filed a protection-request form and an availability form. She did not do this immediately. She stayed up for the better part of the night, hoping that he would come back. She could not bring herself to believe that be would really walk out on her and leave her available for confiscation, or for the slavery pool. She also 'thought for quite a while about the possibility of somehow getting back to Earth, where she would not be available for either. She even went to the fantastic expense of televiewing there to talk with her father and mother. They had been shocked and unfriendly. They had said good-by with a finality which left little room for doubt as to what they thought of an Abandoned. They had never had one in their family, they had pointed out, neither of them, and they did not intend to have one in their family now. They had warned her that they intended to report the call to the This did not worry her much. The call almost certainly had been monitored anyway. If they wanted to go to the considerable extra expense of reporting it, in order to impress the Protection People with their loyalty, that was their own lookout. She understood that, now, she had no famIF ily. She thought for a moment of going up-ramp to say good-by to the children, but she knew that this would not help. Besides, it was illegal. They were no longer hers. She was an Abandoned. She had never known what a tremendously harrowing experience filling out an availability form could be. Name, age, Sector, race, sizeclassification, beauty-index, fertility tests, personality scores, aptitudes, psyche-rating and so on, and so on and so on. It was like undressing for an auction. The protection-request form was much simpler, except for hand shook almost uncontrollably as she wrote. Abandoned. After that she did not know what to do. She had stood for nearly twenty minutes before the document file, listening, thinking desperately that he would come back; that if she only waited a few minutes more he would come back. She had made herself refreshment. She had sat with the filled-out documents on her lap looking, from time to time, longingly at the entrance-ramp. But he ihad not come back. Finally, with a low moaning sound, she had pushed the papers through the document file slot. She made the deadline by a scant three minutes. Now she knew that whatever else happened, the Protection People would be there in the morning to pick up the children. She knew that it could show in her favor if she were to get together the things they would need to take with them. She could do this without seeing them and without talking to them, which was forbidden, but she could not bring herself to move. The red light on the atmosphere control blinked warningly. Soon it would let out a piercing scream. She was tempted to just let it. Another of Clytia's suns must have set. She found that she had no sense of time. She had only the conviction that this would be her last night. The last night that mattered to her at all. She wanted it to be a long one. She had adjusted the atmoset. She had done this every night for the seven years of their marriage. She began to sob uncontrollably. She took her Status Married card and tore it in half Then she held the halves to her cheeks, her face wet and wretched between them. A fter a while she dialed the credit balance at her account. The figures came back indicating a balance of #. He had left her quite a lot, when you considered that she had televiewed to Earth. She cried hard again because she knew that he had not had to leave her anything at all. This made her certain (although she had known it already) that he was not coming back. She sat for quite a while studying the # credit indicator. She thought about using the money to buy a "pick-up-immediately advertisement" on the omnivision. She was not sure of the rates, but she thought the amount might even stretch to include a picture of her. She did not know. She did not even know if she would be expected to be nude or dressed for the picture. In the end, she decided not to try an advertisement because there would not be time enough to employ a reply-receiving address. All that would be accomplished would be to put every predator within miles in possession of the address of an Abandoned. She took a dictator and said into it: "Dear children, I am leaving you # credit." She stopped then and shook her head. The tears made it so that she could not see, and she did not seem to be able to think. "Correction," she sobbed "Erase preceding. Dear Children of Yan, I make you this gift of #. I am sure that your excellence will continue to deserve much more than so small a gift. I send love with this small gift." There could, of course, be no signature An Abandoned had none. She wished tiiat she had not made the Earth call. There would have been much more to leave them then. He had left an astonishing amount in her account. It was almost as though he had expected her to try to get away. She wished now that she had thought before taking action. There might have been some way out. She must have fallen asleep. The morning announcements came on as usual, waking her. She listened to the instructions for that day, and the areas announced as forbidden. She made no effort, however, to indicate them on the day-map. She knew that, now, none of this applied to her. With a very great effort she got up and shut off the children's ramp, so that they could not come down. She knew how much this would count in her favor. Then she began, as hurriedly as she could, to collect the things they would need. She knew that she could not possibly get the things together in time, and that so late an effort was more likely to count against her. She was not even close to finished when the announcer flashed, on. Without asking who it was, she pressed the admitter. She was glad that they had troubled to announce themselves. She offered to go into another room while they removed the children. They did not answer. One of them threw a sack over her. After a moment, they took it off again and, rather apologically, asked her to indicate where the child-ramp control was. She showed them. Their leader said that perhaps it would be all right for her to go into another room if one of them went with her. When she saw the one chosen, she put the sack back on herself They laughed so hard at this that she did not hear the children leave. W hen the children had been taken out, the leader came back and removed the sack from around her. He asked if she had applied for protection. She showed her card. IF 'Well, tiiafs too bad," he said. "Do you have any refreshment left?" She did not dare to lie to him. She showed him. He helped himself. "How about credits?" he asked. "I gave it all to the ones who were here," she answered carefully. She felt quick panic because she remembered that she had not so instructed her account. She had merely dictated it to the children. If he didn't find out, though, that would be all right. The dictation was proof enough. But while she was still in this house, the credits were still in her control. "My credit indicator is here," she said, holding it out. He didn't take it. "Thanks for the refreshment," he said, getting up. "Make yourself comfortable. The others will be here shortly." She had nothing to do to make herself ready. She could not take anything from this house. Sometimes they let you wear what you were wearing, if it did not look as though you had put on your best things. They did not always allow it, but they did sometimes. She remembered that she had expressed strong disapproval 'of that to Yan, when they were newly married. Then they both felt the same way about Abandoneds. She indicated to her account how she wanted the # disposed. Then she waited. After a while, the Protection People came and led her out of the house. They did not touch her or speak to her, they merely formed a square in the center of which she walked. They led her to a record! room where an interview apparatus prepared a report on her. "You have filed availability papers?" it asked. "Yes," she said, and gave the file number. "This is being checked," the apparatus said. "Have you any claims upon the State?" She came very close to mentioning the children. "None," she said in a very small voice. It was difficult to remember that the interview apparatus was not at all sensitive. "Have you credits in your possession?" the machine asked. "None," she said. "You are eligible for exclusion from the slave classification in what way?" That part of the recording seemed a bit worn. At least she did not hear it very well. "In no way," she replied. "You will wait," said the machine, "until we have a report on the availability petition which you have filed. Please take a seat." T here were no seats. This was an older machine which they had not bothered to replace, or even to correct. She stood in horror as the long minutes passed. Her number was finally called "I am here," she said as the machine hummed, and she gave her number. "Your availability petition has been taken up," said the machine. "You are however to receive twenty-eight demerits for disposing of # credit after having been abandoned. Do you accept?" "I accept," she said. She was so dizzy that she could hardly stand. The machine whirred and produced a reception-area card. She read it, and walked as in a daze to the indicated reception area. Yan waited for her there. "You look terrible," he said as he put his arm around her. "I'm sorry. You made me do this to you. I didn't want to. It's all over now, don't cry." She thought that she was going to faint. "Thank you for receiving me," she said, according to the formula. "I am the Abandoned of Yan, of the Estate..." "Stop it!" he said. "I know who you are! Stop it!" "Do you have children at your estate?" She asked it as one asks a polite, social question. "They'll be there when we get home," he said. "Don't do this. I didn't know it would hurt that much. I wouldn't have done it if I had. They're your children again now." He held her shoulders as he looked at her "I came to you with twenty-eight demerits," she said. "Shall I work them off before I come to your estate?" Please, stop it!" he said. "They were paid when you accepted. I waited here all night. No one else could have claimed you. Please, come on home now?" He handed her a brand-new wife-status card, "Thank you," she said. "I shall try to deserve the opportunity which you restore to me." He smiled as she recited the formula and took his arm. Yet he did not look as if he felt like smiling. "Come home," he said. "Come home now. I'll not hurt you again." He led her back to their estate. That night, feeling entirely justified, she abandoned him. # # TV Tommy," the children shoutiVl ed. They ran to her and hugged her. They had missed her, and had resented the disturbance in their routine. "Mommy!" They danced and shouted, "Mommy! Mommy, Mommy!" When it was their bed time, he left her alone with them. He said good night to them himself, kissed them and squeezed her shoulder. "It's good to have you home again!" he said. His eyes filled with tears and he hurried from the room. "Tell us a story, Mommy." It was the custom of the household. There were tears in her eyes and her voice trembled a little, but she said in what seemed to them a perfect narrative style: "Once upon a time there were two very good and loving children who found that it was their duty to denounce their father to the state and to see him publicly flogged to death. You must listen very carefully to this," she said, "both of you. "At first, they thought that this was a very sad duty .    IF IF  Feature I t had been suggested that if we ever want to tip the Soviet economy on its edge and give it a good scrapSears, Roebuck catalogs and some helium balloons to tote them. The theory is that Ivan would drool over them just so long, and then start making noises like, "It can't happen here, and why the hell not?" Actually, there is a great deal more to the catalog -- any catalog -- than mere showcasing. It's a Santa sack; it's the glitter of Have to all Have Nots; it dwells in the bittersweet short spectrum between What If and If Only. But there's another aspect, one which clasps this department by its wonder-andawe organ, and squeezes. For a catalog is a sort of portable museum, a graph ctf progress in many 'ologies. What it lists is the needed and the wanted; and what is wanted and what is needed are, each in its way, a measure of the culture to which the catalog is addressed. These items have been screened and filtered by men who know what they are doing, to fill needs which they know exist, as well as to create wants which they deduce are ripe and ready. And what a culture wants, or needs, or what the purveyors think it needs, would be marvelous to a Martian. I have one catalog which offers you artificial vomit. Fool your friends. Oh boy. Much more important, though, is that the catalog -- especially the scientific and technological catalog -- is a parade of serious achievements. Some of them are the sort of things that pop up in the "Why don't they make -- " feature of the mechanical magazines, things that somebody has up and made. Some of these are things you've always wanted, but in new designs more attractive, more efficient and a darned sight cheaper than you ever dreamed you'd see them. Some items meet very special needs. Some will flabbergast you. Did you know, for example, that you can now determine the speed of light in less than two minutes? Yes, you. And you can do it with an apparatus weighing under ten pounds, requiring no setup time, usable in full daylight while mounted on anybody's card table. It might take you eight minutes to learn to operate the gadget, which can be used to measure the velocity of light in air or in a solid or in any liquid you care to pour into a cylinder which is an optional extra. You will not, of course, pick this item up at a one-cent sale -- it costs #. It's designed for classroom physics demonstrations, and can be found in the Cenco catalog. Cenco is the Central Scientific Co., and its wishbook is a joy to have and hold. It contains, of course, what you would expect of a major educational scientific supply house -- pages and pages of chemicals (including specimens of safety-mounted radioactives,) biologicals (including microscope slides of human tissues) and laboratory glassware and other supplies. But the things that fascinated this department were the demonstration kits, like the lightvelocity instrument mentioned above; a self contained demonstration of the Zeeman effect, or interaction of magnetic fields with light, and another for the Faraday Effect, showing the rotation of the plane of polarized light in a magnetic field; a two-page spread of really fascinating "Physics Paradoxes" designed by Julius Sumner Miller (i.e.: Two identical metal rods. One is a magnet. Without using accessories, find out which one, and prove it Another: Connect two bubble-pipes stem to stem with unequally-sjzed bubbles hanging from them. What will happen? . , . you khow something, Jack? You're wrong I One more: Make a semicircle of large-diameter plastic tubing. Mount it, open ends upward, on a turntable. Drop in two wooden balls. They'll roll to the bottom. climb to the top. Okay so far: now fill the tube with water and put in the balls. They'll float at the top. Spin the table; they'll sink to the bottom. Say why, and prove it.) There are eight of these Paradoxes in the catalog. C limbing down from the highbudget area of demonstration materials, and leafing past the jars of frogs, starfish and worms for dissection and the pages of listings of physics and electrical supplies, we come to something worth reaching into the jeans for right now. We've all heard of teaching machines and the remarkable results they have obtained. Well, Cenco has one for #. Programs for it, running to about # frames each on a roll which feeds through the machine, and come in a respectable variety -- Science I and II, arithmetic, algebra I and n, American history, spelling, grammar and vocabulary-building, with other subjects forthcoming. Constant companion on our desk for years has been the big Lafayette Radio and Electronics catalog. Not long ago we built an intercom between house and studio with one of their kits, with our blackbanged Marion doing most of the soldering. It made a baby-listener so efficient that you could hear him breathing while he slept, and it set us back all of #. TTieir immense wishbook covers everything you can think of, and a lot you can't, in electrical, electronic, hi-fi, amateur, stereo, multiplex and citizen's band parts, kits and equipment -- plus toob, IF eientific and educational materials, microscopes, records and technical books Lafayette's two deadly rivals, Alfied Radio and Radio Shack, have somewhat similiar services, and each something special of its own -- kits, for example. We have recently ordered, from Allied, a # "#-in-l Lab Kit" for our #-year-old; it builds photo-electric devices, a dozen different radios (tube, transistor, crystal, hybrid), amplifiers, broadcasters, a metronome and so on and on, all without soldering or extra parts. If you would like a sort of consumer's report on our trials and triumphs with this device, or others, on these pages, we will yield to enough requests. N o one could speak with awe and wonder about wishbooks without mentioning Edmund Scientific chunky little tome, about the size and shape of a sex novel but far more lasting. They specialize in science, math and optics, and can supply an absolutely fabulous variety of gadgets, gimmicks, and gewgaws. If you're building a do-it-yourself spinthariscope or opaque projector, a reflecting telescope or a spectrometer, an abacus (yes, they have a kit for it) Edmund will seU you the parts. Dealing a lot (although not exclusively) in surplus, Edmund are past masters at the high art of using materials for purposes for which they are not intended. Because of this, you can get front-surface mirrors, polarizing lens assemblies, specialized prisms and the Eke at really astonishingly low prices. But far and away the best feature of the Edmund catalog is that it is also a handbook. All through its pages are generous blocks of type with diagrams, defining and describing, in very clear language, the varieties and functions of lenses and complex optical systems, ' such matters as "power" in microscopes and telescopes, and what it really means; suggestions for Science Fair projects, the psychology of teaching-aids and "learning games", and more. Noting briefly, if geology or gemology is your kick, you'll like the big fat Grieger's Catalog of Rockhounding. It's a veritable education in dopsticks and jump-rings, cabochons and rutilated quartz. And they advertise one thing which we have been led to understand couldn't happen. It's called Attack y and, under the slogan, "what man has joined together can be cast asunder," it dissolves epoxy cements. If you are both handy and musical -- and a surprising number of scientifically-minded people are -- here are two items which should bring a sparkle to the eye: Heathkit has just announce I an electronic organ kit. It's a double-manual, #-voiced, #-bass instrument with real bigorgan performance. And Zuckermann will send you a very nicely produced little booklet on their doit-yourself harpsichord. If you'd like us to continue covering the Great American Wishbook for you, just aski IF  Novelette She was a Princess of Love -- so the aliens said. But what she did spoke only of hatred I I T he Leisure Club in Leonta City claimed with some justice to cater to all tastes. On the night of April #th two hundred Leontans and a hundred Terrans, all Army or Naval personnel, were making use of its facilities. In one small room four men were attempting to play Beethoven's seventh string quartet. Op. #, No #. The cellist, a colonel, was sweating over his solos. He didn't mind that the leader of the quartet was a sergeant. But that his technical supremacy should be so overwhelming seemed hardly fair. Not for the first time, the colonel considered withdrawing from the quartet in the interests of discipline. The disciplinary problems of the Terran occupying forces on Leonta were bad enough without adding to them. In another room five men, all Terran Army officers, played poker for high stakes. In the bar the inevitable hard drinking was going on, with the stem Leontan bartenders watching silently to make sure that nobody however dmnk, got out of line. IF  :ti The Leisure Club was not a dive. The Terran occupation troops who wished it was were out of luck. There wasn't a dive in Leonta City. Serving-men's wants were not supplied on Leonta as soldiers' simple needs usually are. The local standard of living being high, the strangers' money for once didn't shout in tones which demanded attention. Army and Navy personnel of all ranks were freely admitted to the Leisure Club, but only on Leontan terms. It had already been demonstrated several times that the Club was quite prepared to bar all troops if the requisite standard of behavior was not observed. And some individuals were barred permanently. Over twenty men were in the writing room, writing home. The variety theater, though small, didn't have quite a full house, and soldiers comprised less than half of the audience, the majority being Leontans. Leontan variety was too deep, subtle and serious for most serving-men. There weren't enough belly-laughs and there weren't nearly enough girls. On most other worlds the entertainment would quickly have been changed to appeal more to the large occupying forces. On Leonta everything stayed exactly as it was. If the uninvited visitors didn't .like what was on offer, they didn't have to come. Mosl civilized forms of relaxation were catered for under the roof of the Leisure Club. But there was no dancing, because there weren't enough girls. There were never enough girls. The fact that there were some Terran nurses didn't help much, the ratio of men to girls being about twenty to one. It would almost have been better if there had been no Terran girls at all. Usually, again, the local population of any ten-point human world would have eagerly supplied the deficiency. But Leonta's situation was not usual. Leonta was a highly civilized world at least as rich as Earth, and with the planet's wealth better distributed. Leonta, although beaten in three wars and compelled to put up with an army of occupation, had lost none of her pride and self-respect. Any low-grade Leontans who would have bowed and scraped in order to fleece the Terrans were kept firmly in line by the other ninety-five per cent. The Number One deficiency of lonely men far from home was therefore more deeply felt on Leonta than it had ever been anywhere else. Yet there was one small, surprising slit in the curtain... T he heavy drapes over an alcove in the bar slid smoothly open to reveal a girl reclining on a sofa. Every male head turned instantly. She could have been Terran but for the uncanny perfection of her pale skin. Her combination of intelligence, cool aloofness and conscious provocation was enough to drive most men to anything short of murder -- and some men, perhaps, all the way. IF Her natural attractions were augmented by every artifice to raise her sales appeal, for the alcove was a shop window. That any girl in that particular shop window would have a perfect figure could be taken for granted. It was therefore unnecessary for the revelation of her charms to be vulgarly ostentatious. A few dramatic slits and plunges showed that she wore nothing but her bubblethin black dress; the remarkable shape she revealed was all her own. Bright white lighting which few Terran women could have stood told frankly the truth and the whole truth about her natural talent. Naturally she wasn't in the shop window long. Soon she was with a young Army captain, smiling and sipping a glass of wine. A sergeant who tried to butt in was warned by a small, cold look from the girl to keep his distance. The captain also waved him awav irritably. When he failed to heed either brush-off, the girl nodded to the bartenders. The sergeant was promptly deposited on the sidewalk outside. He protested bitterly but quietly, well aware that if the Leisure Club was cleared on his account he would suffer far more at the hands of resentful Army and Navy officers than his official punishment for creating an incident, which would be severe. The girl Oeea remained in the bar with the captain for about an hour, then they disappeared together. It was only then that the envious officers and men who had been looking on became really jealous. The opportunity to talk to a girl like Oeea was open to all. Most Love Princesses worked their way conscientiously through the entire list of bidders, Terran and Leontan, before making their choice. Oeea, however, had obviously made up her paind already. All the others were going to be unlucky. Why didn't the Leontans, such sticklers for convention, stick to their own rules? Half an hour later, the sergeant who had been ejected from the club, having managed to get into the building again somehow, found the captain beating Oeea brutally, sinking his fists into her body in an ecstasy of sadism. Oeea was bearing this in silence, but the sergeant did not. With a roar of rage he seized a metal ornament and hit the captain with all his strength. Before the stricken man reached the floor he was dead. II T he pilot on the landing barge made a fast, unnecessarily showy landing. Major Nigel Duke stepped onto solid earth, albeit Leontan earth, with some thankfulness. Traditionally the Army didn't altogether trust the Navy, and this mistrust had been carried into space. On solid ground, anywhere, any Army officer felt at least two inches taller. Duke didn't get a chance to see anything of Leona. He was whisked straight to General Bailey, or at least to General Bailey's waitingroom, without an opportunity to learn anything about the planet beyond the fact that it was cold. Not icy cold, just windy-rainy cold. The kind of world which forced its inhabitants, if they happened to be human, to be hard-working and brisk and efficient, because there was no temptation to lie in the sun, drink long, cool drinks and do as little as possible else. Duke was a young major, a tall, tow-haired skeleton with whom nobody ever took any chances, because he looked the kind of officer who would relax only after the proper formal foundations had been laid. This impression was correct. Major Duke, an expert in military law, carried legalistic caution into every department of his life. General Bailey didn't keep him waiting long. And when he was admitted, the general wasted no time at all. Duke knew why he had been sent for before he completed the act of sitting down. "I want you to get a man shot. Major," Bailey said abruptly. "You're to be trial judge advocate at a general court-martial on Friday. And I want a verdict of guilty and a death sentence." Duke, who had said practically nothing so far, said nothing now. With General Bailey, obviously, you verv soon knew exactly where you stood. Bailey was a small, bullet-headed man with all the aggressiveness of small men in high positions, tempered by a blunt correctness. 'T guess you know Leonta's historical background," he said, "so I won't bother you with that. Have you spoken to anyone who's served here recently?" "No, sir." "You're straight out from Earth?" "I've been with the fleet law pool for ten months. During that time I've been temporarily assigned to Araminta, Deeswood and Hermitage. Never Leonta." "I know that. I fought here and I've been in command of the occupying troops since the armistice six years ago. Well, I guess you're wondering why I sent for a hot-shot trial lawyer to prosecute. The truth is, Major, the only law man I've got whom I might trust with this case is already in it -- defending. Morgenstern asked for Major Francis, and in the circumstances he had to get him." ask questions. Duke waited for him to make his own explanations in his own way. "Cigarettes in that box, Major," Bailey said. "I don't use them, but -- " "I don't either, sir." "Don't you? Good. Well, Major, here's the situation. The Leontans have fought three tough wars with us and they only stopped because they realize now that we're too big for them They're not scared of us. And they don't hate us. They just want rid of us. The situation here is moderately stable but uneasy. They stick to all the military and civil agreements and never fail to point out every infringement on our part, maIF jor or minor, by anybody from me down to the rawest rookie from Earth." Duke nodded. He had heard about the Leontans: proud, independent, hard-working, cultured. They might have been super-Germans. "The Leisure Club in Leonta City is open to all ranks, but only just. If anybody doesn't behave, he gets thrown out. The Leontans organize their entertainments as they organize most things -- with more organization than entertainment. They don't put on a special show for us. They run their world their way, and we have to conform. "In the Leisure Club you can drink, gamble, listen to classical music, paint, sculpt, take arty photographs, read, write, put on amateur theatricals. It's a recreation center catering for everything but with a strong bias toward culture. Guys who like string quartets and long-hair stuff get on fine. The ordinary Joe who can't see past women and booze isn't so happy. He can drink, but he isn't supposed to get stinko. And as for women..." "The local girls won't play?" said Duke, because this time the general's silence positively commanded some response. "As a rule, no. There's no outright ban." D uke suspected from the general's tight-lipped reluctance to continue along this line that he was something of an ascetic. Just as Duke was deciding, however, that if information on this head was going to be necessary he'd have to get it from somebody else, Bailey plunged resolutely on. "Some of our boys are fixed up fine, which is all right from everybody's point of view so long as they have the sense to keep quiet about it. But in general -- no girls, except for one rather curious Leontan custom." Bailey's mouth set disapprovingly, and his words came out like little icicles. "I like the Leontans all right. Major. I guess I even respect them. But this one thing I can't approve or even understand... They run a sort of high-class prostitution, clean and tidy and clinical. A very beautiful, intelligent and talented girl is chosen as a Princess of Love -- so they call her. She goes on show like a prize heifer and then works her way through the list of bidders. Some men she rejects at a glance, some after five minutes' conversation. Eventually she meets someone she likes." "And the price is astronomical?" Duke suggested. "No, it isn't like that. On the contrary, the price isn't particularly important. She has to like the guy." "Sounds rather like what we've got back at home. Only we don't call it prostitution. What do you dislike about the way the Leontans do it, General?" Bailey looked slightly surprised, as if he thought he had successfully concealed his feelings about the system. But he answered the question. "I guess the organization, the coldbloodedness, the deadpan seriousness of it. And the way they run it side by side with art and music and drama... "Well, Major, all this is background. Ten days ago Sergeant Morgenstern and Captain Slater were in the Leisure Club. So were over a hundred other officers and men, and two hundred Leontans. A girl called Oeea became available as a Princess of Love. She joined Slater. Morgenstem tried to intervene but was thrown out. "Later Morgenstern found Slater beating up the girl and killed him. There's no doubt about the facts of thing, and so did two other Leontans. In any case, Morgenstern admits it himself. Major, I want you to suppress any feelings of sympathy you may have for Morgenstern and get him hung." "Why. General?" Duke asked quietly. "Because he's a murderer, for one thing. Maybe it would be best if you stuck to that. Major Duke. But since you're sure to find out some of the undercurrents of this business, I'll talk to you again once you've studied the file. Here it is." "You want me to read this and then report back?" "No, read the file, go to the Leisure Club yourself tonight, and come back and talk to me tomorrow." Duke nodded. It had not escaped him that he was being afforded no opportunity to refuse the case. "Sergeant Bowler will show you to an office you can use," Bailey said. "Glad to have you with us. Major." M ajor Duke settled himself in the small, bare room into which Bowler had led him and started his investigation of the Morgenstern affair. Sergeant Isaac Morgenstern was twenty-five and there were no black marks in his record. At #:# on the night of April #, two Leontans in the back of the bar saw an Army sergeant rushing along a back corridor. Although, they were aware of no reason why he shouldn't be there, not having noticed him being turned out earlier, his manner was strange enough to make them follow him. They were only a few yards behind him when he burst into a room, and they both clearly saw everything which happened in the next few seconds. In the room a man who was later identified as Slater was punching the girl Oeea in the ribs. She made no outcry, but tried desperately to protect herself from the blows. One of the Leontans said Slater was laughing like a maniac. The other didn't hear this. (A small point which Duke found very convincing: when evidence is trumped-up, witnesses always agree to the finest detail). Morgenstern shouted, seized a heavy metal lamp and hit Slater on the head with it. Slater pitched on the floor and lay still. Morgenstern then dropped the lamp and fell on his knees beside the fallen man, seizing him by the throat. But Slater was already dead. Afterwards, Morgenstern gave no trouble and denied nothing. He made i# IF a statement of which Duke had a copy before him. But Duke put it aside for the moment, reading everything else first. Morgenstem had been pronounced sane. Statements by other Leisure Club patrons that night, Terran and Leonan, corroborated the facts as Duke already knew them. Morgenstern had tried to interrupt Slater and Oeea earlier in the evening, and had been ejected on the girl's order. Morgenstern had been seen during the next hour prowling around outside the building. Twice he had tried to get in with a party of new arrivals. seen going down a dark lane which led to the back of the club. A confidential report by Slater's colonel stated that Slater was not well liked. He was extremely tough on all inferiors, and particularly on Jews and Negroes. He frequently referred to the Leontans as "stinking natives." Two years before he had been charged with beating up a girl on Araminta, but acquitted. There was a medical report by an Army doctor who had examined the girl shortly after the incident. Her injuries were 'detailed: extensive bruises all over the front of the torso and on the arms. The doctor's summing-up was that the girl had suffered a barbarous attack which amounted to torture, inflicted in his opinion by a compulsive sadist. A lthough he was trying to read the file with professional detachment, Duke was conscious of an increasing feeling of bafflement. About Morgenstem's guilt there was no conceivable doubt, unless it arose out of the fact that the three vital witnesses, those who had seen the actual looked the kind of case in which the accused, having been found guilty on a reduced charge, would geta comparatively light sentence. Morgenstern appeared to have had the utanything but a cold, premeditated murder. On all he had read so far, Duke would rather have been defending Morgenstem than prosecuting him, and would have given himself a fair chance of getting the sergeant off altogether. Why, then, did General Bailey want Morgenstem shot? Why had he given Morgenstem his best legal officer as defense counsel and sent for a fleet law pool outsider to prosecute? Did he -- an uncomfortable thought, this -- expect his own top law man. Major Francis, to tie Duke in knots and get Morgenstem off, with General Jerome Bailey absolutely in the clear, whatever questions might be asked later? Duke picked up Morgenstern's statement thinking that it might give a clue to the general's attitude. But it only increased Duke's bafflement. It read: Oeea is my girl. Shes no prostitute. She must have been forced to offer herself the way she did We've been lovers for weeks, and we mean to get married. We never quarreled, I saw her only the night before and she didn't say anything about this Princess of Love business. I just couldn't understand it when I saw her in that alcove. Did I know what it meant? Of course I knew what it meant. Everybody knows. I know all about Slater. He's a skunk. If Oeea had to give herself to somebody y I'd rather it was anybody else at camp than Slater. I can't understand why she went with him. There's something funny going on somewhere. I got into the club through a cellar.  wanted to see Oeea. After thinking about things for an hour the only thing that made any sense to me was that Slater had got some hold on her, threatening her family or something like that. When  found them he was hitting her like he was trying to kill her. I don't know what  did then. When I knew what was going on again. Slater was dead. Yes, I guess I killed him. Anybody else who saw what he was doing to Oeea would have, too. Duke read this several times. He was beginning to wish he had never come to Leonta. He had never had a case he liked less. Ill O n closer acquaintance Duke found Leonta's climate as cold and unfriendly as he expected. Before he reached the Leisure Club he knew why such an institution was necessary. On such a world there was no fun in going for night walks, in sitting in a car, in going from one place of entertainment to another. What was needed was a nice warm place with everything you wanted under one roof. He expected some difficulty in being admitted to the Leisure Club. But when he gave his name to the two Leontans at the door he was passed inside at once. "General Bailey called and said you'd be coming," one explained. It was the first time Duke had heard a Leontan speak, the first time he had seen a Leontan close at hand. They were one hundred per cent human. They didn't even differ as much from Europeans and Americans as, say. Chinese did. The only thing which showed at once that they weren't Terran was their skin, which was pale, very faintly brown, and smooth as matt paper. The men appeared effeminate because Leontan men had e.cactly the same smooth skin as the women. The girls, al though their skin texture showed instantly that they weren't Terran, didn't give the same slightly forbidding impression of belonging to another race. They were, indeed, more attractive than a cross-section of Terran girls, because of their perfect complexions, because they were rarely fat and because their features were never coarse. Leontan native speech, Duke knew, was liquid, consisting entirely IF of vowel sounds, of which there were over a hundred. Terran ears couldn't distinguish all these, and therefore no Terran had ever been able to speak or fully understand Leontan. The Leontans, however, found English fairly easy and many of them spoke it quite perfectly. Duke found he was allowed to wander anywhere he wished in the Club so long as he was quiet and didn't disturb anybody. There must have been fifty rooms, ranging up to small halls. The temperature was a steady seventy everywhere, except in the sport courts, which were kept cooler. Duke estimated that there were about three hundred people in the club, of whom perhaps a hundred were soldiers and sailors and six or seven were Terran nurses. Of the Leontans, a hundred fifty were women. There was no obvious tension between Leontans and Terrans. But parties almost always consisted of one or the other. The only mixed groups were the permanent ones -- the theatrical company, the bridge teams, the music groups, the tennis players. Even the drinkers in the bar were segregated in quiet, low-voiced groups of Yerrans or Leontans. It surprised Duke that it was possible to keep Terran Army and Navy personnel so subdued in a club on a beaten world. Yet after all -- there was nowhere else in Leonta City to go, and if anyone stepped out of line the Leontans were within their rights in closing the Club to all Terrans. In such circumstances, Terran troublemakers would be squashed by Terrans, not Leontans. Duke sat in the bar for some time just watching before he ordered a drink. It was a sick spectacle. The Terrans sat around staring gloomily, hungrily at the Leontan and Terran girls who were present, all heavily engaged. Why, Duke wondered, didn't the Army have the sense to recognize this need in places like Leonta? Women could be occupying troops as well as men. Why not send out a thousand women in uniform? The answer, presumably, was that the Army and Navy were blind to exceptions. Traditionally, armies on foreign, but human-occupied, soil managed to make do with the local talent. The Army did not, would not recognize that on Leonta, a proud, independent, wealthy world, the local talent could and did say No, thank you. The Army, which could be very foolish sometimes, didn't realize how it could lower its own prestige and efficiency on Leonta by not supplying one vital, priceless commodity. And incidents like the Morgenstern-Slater case became inevitable. Sooner or later such things were bound to happen. D uke went thoughtfully back to the bar at last. 'T've just arrived," he said to the bartender. "I don't know what you drink here. Wine? Beer? Hard liquor?" "All are available, sir." The Leontan's manner was impeccably polite without being friendly. "Then I'll try your wine." "White or red, sir? Perhaps you'd tell me the Terran type you prefer. Barsac, Graves, Sauternes, Chablis, Moselle? Or Beaujolais, Beaune, Medoc, St. Julien?" Rather startled, Duke said: "I like a good Rhine wine." "Then let me recommend Aoeau, sir. I'll give you a glass, not a bottle. If you wish it again, ask for Spring Water -- a free translation, but anyone will understand what you mean." "Thank you." "You're Major Duke, aren't you?" Duke managed to conceal his surprise this time. "Yes." The bartender said no more, but handed him a quite conventional wine glass half full of pale yellow wine. The charge was equivalent to ninety cents. The cost of living on Leonta was not low. Duke sat down again and sipped his drink. It was a pleasant young wine, more like a light Moselle than a Rhine wine. Possibly the bartender was insulting his taste. And yet, a cool world like Leonta could hardly produce rich wines. There must be warmer areas than this one or Leonta wouldn't produce wine at all. Without warning a curtain across one wall slowly opened. In a recess a girl reclined. The Terran men present jumped and stared and moved restlessly. The spreading undercurrent would have been felt by a blind man. So this was how they did it. The girl, presumably, was not Oeea. According to the medical report which Duke had seen she would still be nursing a good many nasty bruises. Duke's interest remained detached. It was hardly surprising that the girl was exceedingly beautiful. The cruel effect she had on the Terrans present was not surprising either. Although Duke was trying to retain an open mind about the Leontans, he couldn't help forming a judgment. It was sadistic, and probably deliberately sadistic, to offer an entire garrison of woman-hungry men one or two exquisite courtesans a week, with no guarantee that some Leontan wouldn't win them in the end. It was forbid such relations altogether. "Ten days ago I was a Princess of Love," a soft voice said. Duke turned his head. A girl had quietly sat beside him, a girl so like the girl in the alcove that he glanced quickly from one to the other. He now saw that there were differences. The two Leontan girls resembled each other, with the same measurements, the same clothes, the same makeup, the same hairdo. "You're Oeea?" he said. "Oeea," she said patiently. The name sounded subtly different, but he couldn't have done any better with it the second time. Like the girl in the alcove and unlike all the other Leontan girls he had seen, she wore a transparent black dress with slits through which pale flesh peeped wickedly. Already, it seemed, her bruises had healed. IF None of the skin her careless gown revealed was discolored. He remembered a hint in the medical report that Leontans healed more quickly than Terrans. A s in his interview with General Bailey, he refrained from starting the ball rolling. She knew who he was and had something to say, obviously; he let her get on with it. "You're going to prosecute Isaac, aren't you?" "It's possible." "Do you mind if I talk to you?" "You're doing it." "But not here. Will you come with me?" He rose, picking up his glass. "May I get you something?" She looked at the glass. "What's that you're drinking?" "Spring Water." "And what do you think of it?" "Pleasant, light, tolerable." "The barkeep was testing your taste. I'll get you something better." She led him to the bar, spoke in liquid Leontan to the barman and took a bottle and two glasses from him. She shook her head at Duke when he offered to pay. "Sorry, sir," said the bartender. "What for?" "You did know the difference." Oeea led him to a small room which had low, soft, comfortable furniture. As she poured a glass of wine for him, he found to his annoyance that he was not immune to her physical presence. "Must you wear a dress like that?" She stood back to let him see it properly. "I thought you'd like it." The neckline plunged past her navel. Pale flesh showed at hip, stomach and thigh. Even where the cloth covered her flesh it merely veiled it. And her slim, taut figure was superb. "Why did you think I'd like it?" "Most men do -- Leontan 'or TeTran. If you like I'll change it." "Please do." She didn't expect that and hesitated for a moment. Then she went out. Duke tasted the wine. It was fuller, richer, decidedly superior to the Spring Water. Oeea was back in only a few seconds. She was now dressed, like the other Leontan women Duke had seen, in a short neat garment which hugged the figure and left most of her arms and legs bare. Compared with her black dress it was eminently respectable. "I have already spoken to Major Francis," she said. "I've told him everything I know which will help Isaac. I promised to testify to it all." "Why tell me this?" She poured herself a glass of wine and sipped it. "I don't understand your legal system. Must Isaac be tried? Can't you and Major Francis talk things over and release him?" Duke thought of many answers and chose the simplest. "No." "Don't you have a system, as we have, of forgiving even murdei if the victim thoroughly deserved death?" "There must be a trial. If the provocation was great, the sentence may be light." "Couldn't Isaac be declared not guilty?" "According to your own evidence, he killed Slater. Therefore he must be guilty of something." "And there must be a punishment?" 'Theoretically, yes. In practice, no. He might be awarded some punishment which is no punishment at all" "And who will decide that? General Bailey?" There was venom in the way she pronounced Bailey's name. Duke decided instantly to prove this. "What do you have against General Bailey?" "He's a hard man. The wrong man to be in charge here. The wrong Terran. If we must have a Terran general in command here, it should not be General Bailey." "Why not?" doesn't want to understand us. He wants us to persecute Isaac because he is a Jew and because Isaac loves me." "What do you know about Morgenstern being a Jew?" "What Isaac told me. Some Terrans, like Slater and General Bailey, hate Jews. Do you?" "No. You can rest assured that Morgenstern won't be treated unfairly because he is a Jew. About the other thing -- why do you say General Bailey hates Morgenstern because he loves you?" IF "General Bailey fought us. He doesn't trust us. He still dislikes us, if he doesn't hate us. And things which he doesn't understand, he hates. He hates and despises me because I was a Princess of Love. He thinks I'm nothing more than a prostitute." "And are you?" "Isaac told me what you on your own world understand by prostitution. It's dirty there because you make it dirty. Here it is different. Major Francis is going to get me to explain our system at the trial. He thinks it's very important to his case." Legal ethics made Duke say: "Oeea, if you want to help Morgenstem perhaps you shouldn't talk to me at all. Help Major Francis aU you like, but don't tell me his case." "You mean you don't want to understand either? Like General Bailey?" "I don't mean that at all. I mean -- " "Listen. Even Isaac doesn't understand. Major Duke, we are a cultured, artistic people. Please don't misunderstand me when I say we're more cultured than you are. I mean that among us the general, the average level of cultural awareness and attainment is higher." "I must admit that the way you speak my language impresses me very much." "That's one example. If we study a thing at all, first we decide how to study it. We take the best models. Thus I don't speak your language like a London or New York guttersnipe, but more as ifs spoken at Princeton. But that's a digression. Isn't it only to be expected that a cultured people brings art to more and more pursuits? A savage, primitive society has few arts. A highly civilized culture has many. With us, love is an art. Not all of us study it, any more than every Terran studies all your arts. Women study it more than men, and beautiful, healthy people of both sexes study it more than plain people of moderate health and strength." "Study can stultify," Duke remarked thoughtfully. "Of course. Do you think we don't know that too? We know the dangers, and guard against them. Among us. Major Duke, a girl is proud to be invited to be a Princess of Love. It is a great honor. No girl, no matter how beautiful and talented, can be a Love Princess more than three times at most." "Please," Duke protested. "I understand that you're telling me that among Leontans your exclusive, high-grade Princess of Love system is part of your culture and that a girl who figures in it isn't reckoned to have lost her respectability. Granting all that, I can't see what it has to do with Morgenstem and Slater." "It has a great deal to do with General Bailey," the girl said in a low, serious voice. "He regards what happened as a vulgar, sordid affair, and his disgust over the whole business is his real reason for wanting to execute Isaac." She might weU be right, Duke thought. But he kept this condusion strictly to himself. IV #tJid you go to the Leisure Club last night?" General Bailey asked. "Yes, sir." "Are you going to get Morgenstem shot for me?" "May I be frank, sir? I can find no reason why the death penalty should be sought in this case. For my own part, Fd much rather be defending Morgenstem than prosecuting him. And I think I could get him off." Bailey was thunderstruck. When at last he could speak, he said in a voice in which the grating of ice could be heard: "It seems I've been very much mistaken in you. Major." "Yes, sir. You wish to appoint another officer as trial judge advocate?" Bailey already had himself in command again. "Wait, sir. You're going too fast. I asked for the best prosecutor the fleet law pool could provide, and you were the man who was sent. Exactly why are you in such an all-fired hurry to duck out of this case?" "Because, sir, my preliminary investigations suggest that you're allowing your own prejudices to sway you." "That what you think, is it?" Bailey's sudden calmness was the last thing Duke expected. What he had expected had been a burst of fury in the course of which General IP Bailey would have blasted him off Leonta and back to the fleet. Making Bailey furious, Duke calculated, was the quickest and surest way of extricating himself from the Morgenstem case. "Suppose I tell you," said Bailey, "that you're right, and that I still don't feel a twinge of conscience that I want to get Morgenstern shot?" "Then I'd want to hear what else you have to say, sir." "That's more like it," said Bailey grimly. "Listen, then. Major, unless you're blind and have never studied any history you must know that every century since the Middle Ages internal military discipline has weakened." "That's a tenable point of view." "It's more than that. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries all soldiers obeyed all orders instantly, blindly. Injustices were borne quietly, as being in the nature of things. In the twentieth century, psychiatry gave every troublemaker the excuse that everything wrong he did was somebody else's fault. And kids, teenagers, criminals, neurotics and ordinary enlisted men all learned that they could get away with anything if they put on a good enough act. By the twenty-second century a private could sue his colonel for persecution and get a hundred thousand dollar settlement." "Only in a very clear, very extreme case, and in peacetime, sir." "I said it could happen, didn't I? In the nineteenth century, could any private sue his colonel for any damn thing? This is a trend, Major, and it's still growing. The trouble is, we still need armies. We still even need peacetime armies. And in peacetime, on jobs like this occuprtion of Leonta, the problem of discipline is at its worst. I've got to watch everything I do and say all day and every day in case some disgruntled sergeant or lieutenant or captain decides to get me kicked out of my job." "Yes, sir. Am I to understand you have serious disciplinary problems here on Leonta?" "Hell, Major, you only had to open your eyes to see we must have. The Leontans don't like us, don't want us here. So they do all they can to make things awkward. Mostly they back the rights of the underprivileged, as you might say. Treat privates just like colorels. Act as if we're all Terrans, all soldiers, and what's the difference? Don't you see how that can make things tough?" "Yes, I -- do see," said Duke. He was mentally kicking himself. There was more to the Morgenstern case than met the eye. He should have been the last man to make up his mind before all the evidence was in. "Now, the Leisure Club. I wanted a separate club for officers, but the Leontans said they'd open the club to all or none. Could I have given orders that the Leisure Club was for officers only? I could not. Then, this Love Princess business. You think it's okay. Major? You think I'm prejudiced?" Duke hesitated. "Ethically, it doesn't seem so -- " "Major, as far as I'm concerned ethical considerations don't come into it. What concerns me is the effect on my garrison. What do you think of that?" Duke admitted that the effect must be wholly bad. Bailey shrugged impatiently. "I could have said all this yesterday, but I wanted you to look around first. Now, let's get down to this case. So you've got a lot of sympathy for Morgenstern? Morgenstern is a sergeant. He's been here quite long enough to know the ropes. Apparently he thought he had a Leontan girl, one of the few lucky enough to be in that position. The Leontans don't like it, but it happens. So long as the two of them keep it under cover, nobody does anything about it "Then he saw his girl on offer as a Princess of Love. Sure, that shook him up a bit. But it only proved what he should have known all along -- that his girl was a Leontan, and liable to act like a Leontan. It gave him no license to kill a Terran Army captain." Duke got the first hint of what Bailey was really getting at. He looked at him sharply, wondering if the blunt general was that shrewd. And Bailey promptly proved he was. "Morgenstern is either a cunning fool or a stupid fool. Major, but a fool anyway. See what I mean?" "Yes, sir," Duke whispered, "I guess I do see what you mean." "And though we don't execute crazy people any more, we often have to execute fools." "Yes." said Duke quietly. "Yes. we do." D uke had a busy time before the trial opened. There was a lot of work to be done, and nobody but himself to do it. Neither he nor Major Francis had been provided with an assistant. Duke didn't meet either Morgenstern or Francis until the courtmartial opened. Five officers presided over by General Hebbenton sat at a long table. Duke had a small table set at one end at right-angles. At the corresponding table at the other end Morgenstern sat with Major Francis. Morgenstern was not at all as Duke had pictured him. He was a good-looking cheerful young man who didn't look the type to kill an officer in a fit of rage. He didn't look the type to kill anyone. There was one thing, however, in his appearance which particularly interested Duke. He looked a cunning fool rather than a stupid fool -- if he was a fool at all. Duke opened his case with the Oeea herself last. All three were good, clear witnesses. They knew what they had seen and they weren't going to be inveigled into saying they had seen any more or any less. Duke was very careful in his questions to Oeea, opening as few doors as possible for Major Francis to barge through in cross-examination. IP Duke knew that Oeea was also being called as a witness for the defense. Before Francis had any opportunity to start putting on his case, however, Duke wanted to get all the facts in the record. Major Francis, rather surprisingly, did not cross-examine. Certainly he would have his chance later. Duke had expected, however, that he would lose no time in bringing out some of the facts which were obviously in Morgenstern's favor. After Oeea, Duke brought on a Captain Harry Burns who testified that Slater was not well liked, that he hated Jews and Negroes and that there had been trouble before between Slater and Morgenstern. While this witness was before the court, Francis several times objected on various grounds, but none of his objections were sustained. Duke got the impression that several members of the court were very curious about Slater's previous relations with Morgenstern, and since Burns was the only witness who was going to tell them anything at all about this feature of the case they thought they'd better hear all he had to say. ' Then Duke put Lieutenant Sam Borke on the stand. "You were in the Leisure Club on "Yes, sir." "Alone?" "I was in the bar with several friends." "Please give their names." "Captain Bob Morrice, Lieutenant Tom Rora, Ensign Bill Teiger of the Navy, and a nurse. Marge Brown." "All Terrans, then?" "Yes, sir." "Was there any contact between your party and any Leontans, apart from the bartenders?" "How do you mean, contact?" "Did any Leontans speak to you?" "Not till that guy came over." "What guy. Lieutenant?" "I can't say his name, the guy who "I know, the other guy was with him. They were both there. Anyway, the first guy said -- " #bjection," said Francis, on his W feet. "Objection sustained," said Hebbenton. "You cannot elicit hearsay evidence. Major Duke. And please establish which of the Leontans spoke to the witness." "Yes, sir. Lieutenant, was it the Leontan Eoaee who spoke to you?" "Yes, that's the guy. The big one." "What did Eoaee do after he spoke to you?" "Went out to the toilet." "Are you of your own knowledge aware that he went to the toilet?" "No. But he said he was going." With some difficulty, for the lieutenant was not a good witness, Duke managed to establish that the two talked to Borke's party just before going out of the bar and that this must have been before they saw Morgenstern murder Slater. i# Then he closed his case. Hebbenton's eyebrows shot up and he asked Francis and Duke to approach. 'Ts that your entire case, Major Duke?" he demanded. T have shown that Sergeant Morgenstern killed Captain Slater, sir, and that ill-feeling had existed between the two men for some time. What more can I do?" "That remark comes perilously close to insolence, Major." "It isn't intended, sir." Hebbenton struggled with himself. Then he said quietly: "You know the circumstances, Major Duke. All Leontans must, in the circumstances, be considered hostile witnesses. Is Sergeant Morgenstern to be convicted, entirely on Leontan testimony, with no evidence from Terran personnel?" "Most certainly, sir," said Duke coolly, "if you will not permit me to ask Terran officers what Leontans said to them." The remark was deliberately rude. Hebbenton nearly hit the roof. Then he realized that rude or not, it was wholly justified. The court had the choice of making no distinction whatever between Terran and Leontan witnesses, or allowing hearsay evidence from Terran officers about what Leontans said. "But...you didn't even ask your Leontan witnesses about this matter. Major." "No, sir. Shall we recall them and ask them now?" Eoaee was recalled and asked about the incident. He said yes, he had spoken to some Terran officers just before leaving the bar. He had offered to show them over the club and had been surprised when they refused. His motives had been purely friendly. After the Leontan had left the stand, Duke was called before the president again. Hebbenton asked why he had not brought the matter up when the Leontan first gave evidence. "I'm sorry, sir," said Duke blandly. On the point of saying more, Hebbenton checked himself. Perhaps it occurred to him too that a cautious witness would be more likely to make an admission on being recalled after others had testified than otherwise. V M ajor Francis put Captain Hinton, an army doctor, on the stand to testify to Oeea's condition after the assault on her by Slater. Hinton took ten minutes and a good deal of medical jargon to say she'd been comprehensively beaten up. Cross-examining, Duke said: "Exactly how do Leontans differ from Terrans, doctor?" Francis objected on the grounds that this raised a subject not covered in direct examination. Hebbenton overruled the objection without asking Duke for an explanation. Hinton said that Leontans were medically exactly the same as Terrans except that they healed more IT quickly. Minor cuts, abrasions and bruises cleared up in just over half the time Terrans would take to heal, and there was less risk of scars. "I don't know whether this is the result of heredity or environment," the doctor, a plump, red-faced man, declared. "In my view, far too little research has been done into this." "Quite, doctor. But the fact is that Leontan flesh normally is less flawed than Terran partly because skin eruptions are rarer, partly because injuries heal more quickly, and partly because the healing is generally more complete?" "Exactly so." "So if you were to examine Oeea again now, she'd probably be completely healed?" "Very likely." "Now, doctor, you said you found traces of previous injuries?" "Very faint. Almost gone." "Yet according to your own evidence, Leontans heal fast? Therefore the previous injuries could have been caused as recently as two weeks before April #?" "Possibly." "These faint traces of previous injuries you found. Were they visible?" "No. They showed up in examination with a machine which shows subcutaneous damage. Nothing showed on the surface. Of course. Major, these injuries were of absolutely no medical importance whatever, compared with the quite considerable damage I was primarily concerned with." "Of course, doctor." On redirect Francis brought out the fact that although Leontans healed far more quickly than Terrans, injuries they suffered were just as painful at the time. Francis thus squashed any idea that Oeea, being a Leontan, had suffered any less pain at Slater's hands than a Terran girl would have done. Francis then put Oeea on the stand. Duke was ruefully aware that her very appearance, especially directly after the doctor's evidence, was all in Morgenstern's favor. She was slim as a wand, fragile and very beautiful. Every man in the room -- and everyone in the room but herself was a man -- must be thinking: If I found anybody beating up this little honey, I guess I'd be pretty mad too. Francis didn't call her "Miss." "Oeea, the Leontan custom of displaying a Princess of Love has a considerable bearing on this case. Describe the system." Oeea, demure and composed, made much the same defense of the custom which she had already made to Duke. But this time she made far more of it. She gave the Leontan name and explained that the translation Princess of Love was only an approximation. Goddess would be nearer than Princess, she said, except that there was no suggestion of actual divinity, only of supreme quality. And the other word in the title included Beauty as well as Love. The title meant, in fact, that a girl had everything. When any girl was invited to be a Princess of Love she knew that she'd been awarded top marks for looks, personality and intelligence. "Even among us," she said, "many girls say they'd refuse to act as a Princess of Love if they were ever asked. We are a rather strait-laced people, you know. But hardly anyone ever refuses the tests, and I've never heard of anybody actually chosen refusing the honor... "You're a strait-laced people?" Francis queried. "Well, aren't we? A lot of you Terrans disapprove of the Love Princess system. Yet you have hundreds of prostitutes operating in every city, all the time, in the most sordid conditions, Among us, one Love Princess or at most two offer themselves in a week, openly, proudly...and that's all the extra-marital adventure that's legally and morally allowed among us. The present case can't be taken as typical. I made a bad mistake with Slater." "Please confine your answers to the questions. You say no girl ever refuses the honor?" "I've never heard of it happening." She looked appealingly at the president of the court. "I can only explain this if I'm allowed to speak freely." H ebbenton said nothing. Taking silence as assent, she said: "Perhaps I can explain our attitude best lik this. If in one of the countries on Earth where girls are still supposed to be modest, Spain for instance, a highly respectable girl is asked to parade in a bathing costume, she'll probably decline. But if she's told she's been chosen Miss Spain and is asked to go to America to compete in a Miss World or a Miss Universe or a Miss Galaxy competition, she'll find it very hard to say no. Suppose -- and this must be theoretical, but please bear with me -- she is told that if she competes she will certainly be chosen Miss Galaxy. Could any girl refuse? Remember, if she does refuse, no one will ever know the offer was made, that she could have been Miss Galaxy... Well, perhaps that gives you some idea of a Leontan girl's feelings on being asked to be a Princess of Love and Beauty. If she refuses, a time will soon come when nobody will ever believe that this supreme honor, this accolade of her womanhood and beauty, was ever offered. If she accepts, she gains something which nobody can ever take away from her. When I am old and ugly. I'll always be able to say that once I was a Princess of Love." "Thank you, Oeea. You've been very lucid and illuminating. Now it seems that when you were offered this honor you didn't immediately tell Sergeant Morgenstern." "No." "Before I ask you why, I want to clarify your relations with Sergeant Morgenstern. Were you in love with him?" "Yes. I still am." "You had not previously been a Princess of Love, however? You didn't meet him in this way?" "No. I'd met him as a very ordiIF nary girl with no thought of ever being invited to be a Love Princess." see. Are you going to marry him?" "Yes." "Why, when you were invited to be a Love Princess, did you not tell Sergeant MOrgenstern about it?" "Well, he's a Terran. Suppose the Spanish girl who knew she could be Miss Galaxy was engaged to a handsome, moody, exceedingly jealous man. Suppose she knew he'd be furious if she entered the contest, and would forbid her to go through with it. Might she not decide to have her cake and eat it, if she could? Get the Miss Galaxy title and afterwards try to make her peace with her fiance? That's what I tried to do." "In other words, you thought you take the honor and afterwards make your peace with Sergeant Morgenstern?" "Yes." "Although it meant being unfaithful to him?" "Leontan girls don't consider election as a Princess of Love ordinary infidelity." "B u t Sergeant Morgenstem might?" "Yes. He did." She and Morgenstem exchanged glances. "But," she added, with what might have been a note of warning, "any Terran who wants to marry a Leontan ought to be clear in his own mind what he's doing. If he wants her to be exactly like an Earthgirl, he should marry an Earthgirl." "Oeea, we've heard medical testimony about the injuries you suffered at the hands of Captain Slater. How did that situation come about? I mean, how did it happen that you chose to bestow yourself on a man who proceeded to assault you?" "That was mainly my fault, but partly due to my unfamiliarity with Terrans. Naturally I didn't expect what happened. Sergeant ' Morgenstern approached me while I was with Captain Slater, whom I had chosen as a possible partner. I knew nothing of Slater, not having met him before. He was a handsome man...When Sergeant Morgenstem approached me, I warned him off, as I had to do. Then, realizing perhaps for the first time exactly what I was doing, I became impatient to get it all over with. Provided I fulfilled my obligation, I was a Princess of Love. A Love Princess may not take her title and refuse her love. I had to love a man or I was not a Love Princess. Stupidly I decided that I'd stick with Slater and conclude the business immediately. I didn't take the care that a Love Princess should take, and usually does take. I didn't make certain that the man I had chosen was worthy of me. I simply decided to keep Slater and be released from my obligation that night." "What happened?" S he shrugged. "We talked. We went to my room and he started to beat me. There's nothing more to it than that, but I'll relate all the details if you wish." "I don't think that will be necessary." Major Francis turned to Duke. "You may cross-examine." Duke rose. "Why didn't you fulfil your obligations with Sergeant Morgenstem?" Oeea frowned. "Pardon?" "Since you wanted, as you said, to have your cake and eat it, why didn't you do so by accepting the invitation tb be a Princess of Love and choosing Morgenstern as your partner?" The girl's brow cleared. "That isn't allowed. If it were, the system would be a farce. Girls would always choose their own lovers. No, a Princess must make her choice from the men she actually meets after she accepts the honor -- from the men who see her at the Leisure Club and sue for her." "You implied that there are tests?" "Yes. There is a series of examinations." "Then it can hardly be a complete surprise to anyone who finds herself chosen as a Love Princess, surely?" "You're mistaken. Practically all pretty Leontan girls do the preliminary tests. It's still a surprise to be chosen." "But doesn't a Love Princess have more than preliminary tests? Doesn't she have to pass a very rigorous examination? How, then, if she's undergone all tiiis testing, can it be a great surprise when she's chosen?" "I could express it in figures, Major. For every fifty girls who are tested, one is chosen. A conceited girl would expect to be the one. A comparatively modest girl is always surprised." Duke nodded as if satisified. "When you are chosen, Oeea, do you have to appear at the club on a particular night?" "No." "Are you given warning?" "Yes." "Then you could have appeared on April # or April # instead of April #? "Yes." "Why did you pick April #?" "No reason." "It wasn't because both Morgenstem and Slater were at the Leisure Club that night?" "No." "You could have chosen April #, when Slater was there and not Morgenstern. Or April #, when neither was there. Or April #. when Morgenstern was there and not Slater." Oeea, who had shown no indication of concern, distress or annoyance, didn't seem to think any answer was called for. "Why." Duke persisted, "did you pick a night when Morgenstern was present?" Oeea raised her eyebrows inquiringly. "Do you want me to give you a lecture on feminine psychology?" "No. Just answer the question." "But that's exactly what I'd need to do to answer the question. I hadn't told Sergeant Morgenstern what was going to happen. I'd seen him the night before and still hadn't told him. But of course I wanted him to know sometime. I wanted him to see me as a Princess of Love. I look rather nice as a Princess of Love. Don't I, Major?" IT VI A fter a recess. Francis put Morgenstern on the stand. He took Morgenstern right through the events of the evening of April # -- his surprise and shock when Oeea made her appearance as a Princess of Love, his unavailing attempts to talk to her, his ejection from the club, his impatient prowl round the building, his entry through a cellar, his discovery of Oeea with Slater, who was apparently trying to kill her. The recital couldn't fail to make a good impression as far as Morgenstem's chances were concerned. Adroitly Major Francis, having already tried to show that the Princess of Lx)ve system was not as evil as Terrans were liable to think, now shifted ground slightly and presented his case to say in effect: "Anyway, can you blame Sergeant Morgenstem? How would you feel if you suddenly and unexpectedly found your girl acting as a prostitute? And not only that, but associating herself with a man you had good reason to dislike and distrust? Wouldn't you try to save her? And, when you found her being treated as Oeea was treated, 'wouldn't you lose all selfcontrol?" When Duke rose to cross-examine, he knew that in a sense he was the judge in this case. If he failed to make any impression on Morgenstern, the sergeant was going to get off with a comparatively light sentence. And if General Bailey's fears about the situation of the occupying force were justified, discipline would suffer such a blow that the Teirwi troops would be off the planet within six months. If on the other hand Duke could tear Morgenstern to shreds, the situation would at any rate get no worse. Duke was prepared to admit that Francis was showing himself a very competent defense ' counsel. But Francis had made one mistake. In putting Morgenstern on the stand and covering practically all the events of April #, Francis had given Duke all the scope he could possibly want. "Sergeant Morgenstern," said Duke, "you entered the club through a cellar? Was it a coal cellar?" Morgenstern answered confidently. "Yes, the Leontans use a lot of coal. There's hardly any oil left. Coal is used for heating the Leisure Club." "Is there a door or hatch or what?" "There's a sort of trapdoor with a chute below it. I prised up the trapdoor and went down the chute." "Rather risky, wasn't it?" "I figured the drop couldn't be too abrupt, or the sacks would burst open. And it was okay. I landed in the dark on a pile of coal sacks." "Very clean sacks, surely?" "Huh?" has been described by several witness. Nobody mentioned coal dust." "Oh, the Leontans like things to be clean. The chute was spotless. I saw that before I lowered the trapdoor over my head and let myself slide down." "Are you aware that many of the thousands of men in this garrison have made repeated and unsuccessful attempts to get into the Leisure Club? Men who have been barred temporarily or permanently? Men who knew there were Leontan girls in the Club and would have tried anything to get at them?" "They just didn't go about it the right way." "Although all these attempts have failed, on the night when you were ejected you simply scouted around and found a way in?" "Maybe I'm smarter than most." "Isn't it true that the trapdoor is generally locked so that it couldn't possibly be prised up. "I don't know." M orgenstern was so confident he appeared to be enjoying this. Duke's questions about coal dust worried him so little that Duke, who hadn't been quite sure, became convinced that he had actually gone down the chute as he said. If Morgenstern had entered any other way it would have worried him that Duke seemed to be catching him out. Having actually gone down the chute, however, he felt that Duke couldn't shake his story. Duke moved on. "You knew Oeea's roopi in the club?" "Yes. At least, I knew the room she'd be in. She doesn't have a room of her own there, but there's an arrangement "You'd been in that room with hes before?" ro "Yes." "On the evening of April #, once you emerged from the coal-cellar, you rushed straight to Oeea's room and flung the door open?" "Yes." "Why wasn't it locked?" Morgenstern had been expecting this. He almost laughed. "There are no locks in the Leisure Club. You can search all over the place and never see a single key." "When on previous occasions you and Oeea were in that room, didn't anyone ever try to get in? Think, now. Sergeant." Morgenstern hesitated and for the first time looked momentarily uneasy. Duke's warning suggested that there was something behind the question, that Duke wanted him to say no and was then going to produce evidence to prove him a liar. "I seem to recall somebody rattled the door once. What's that got -- " "Are you not aware that although there are no keys in Leontan locks, the doors can be locked by a certain manipulation of the door handle?" "Oh, sure. Yes, I remember something about that. Never paid much attention, because it was always Oeea who locked the door." "Locked the door?" "Well, shut it, then." "But on April #, having entered that room with Captain Slater and wishing to be extremely private, she didn't bother to lock the door?" "I don't know that she didn't. May be I worked the lock...I was so mad I don't know what I did." IF "So mad that you were able to operate a complicated lock the secret of which you didn't know?" "I don't know that it was locked. Probably it wasn't." "So Oeea neglected to lock the door that night?" "I don't know," "Sergeant, the evidence of the two witnesses and yourself concurs absolutely on this point. You rushed along the corridor and burst into the room. No one mentioned even a momentary hesitation to fumble with the lock." "Okay, the door wasn't locked, then." "So the coal trapdoor, which is normally locked, was left open that night. And when Oeea entered her room with Slater for the purpose of making love to him, she left the door open. Although that door, according to the evidence we have heard, was freely accessible to anyone passing by." M orgenstern said nothing. He wasn't so confident now. "You testified that when you saw Slater hitting Oeea you were so mad you just grabbed the first thing available and hit him with it?" "Yes." "That object being a metal lamp weighing thirteen pounds?" "I don't know the weight of it. But sure, it was heavy." "It was an oil lamp. Sergeant?" "Yes." "The Leisure Club uses electric light, doesn't it?" "Yes." "And didn't you just say that the club uses coal for heating because the planet has hardly any oil left?" "It's an old oil lamp. It isn't used any more. It's kept there as an ornament." "I see. A useless lamp weighing thirteen pounds is kept onthe bedside table, the only object on it?" "Yes." "It wasn't by any chance deliberately put there because when you picked up such an object and hit somebody on the head with it you could be pretty sure you'd killed him?" Major Francis jumped to his feet with an objection which General Hebbenton sustained. The president ordered the last question to be stricken from the record. Duke turned back to Morgenstern. "Sergeant, when you burst into this unlocked room. Slater was hitting the girl?" "Yes." "On what part of the body was he hitting her?" "Everywhere. Under the ribs, in the belly, on her arms when she tried to defend herself." "You saw this, Sergeant?" "Some of it." "So when you burst into the room, Slater, instead of turning in surprise -- for he must have thought the door was locked, surely? -- went on hitting her while you and the two Leontans behind you watched?" "His back was to us. And I guess I didn't make any noise at first, not n till I got furious and shouted. And... and Slater was making a noise himself, driving his fists into Oeea. And she was gasping -- " "Gasping, but not moaning, shouting or screaming. Sergeant?" "No." "She was in a room with a sadist who was beating her brutally. She had already sustained painful injuries and as far as she knew was going to go on being hurt for a considerable time. The door was unlocked and there were over three hundred people in the club, not counting the staff. But she didn't cry out?" "No." "Although Slater had his back to you, Oeea could see you?" "No, I guess not. She was doubled up...Slater had been working her in the gut...Didn't the doctor tell you what she was like afterwards?" "The doctor's report wasn't available to you then, Sergeant. All you knew of Oeea's condition was what you saw. And it seems she wasn't being hurt enough to bother crying out." "Hell, you heard what the doctor said! And I told you I saw Slater half "But she didn't scream." "You keep saying that! How do I know why she didn't scream? Why don't you ask her?" "Maybe we will. Sergeant. On the other hand, maybe you could tell us. The doctor's report mentioned previous injuries which the girl had suffered. Did you inflict them, Sergeant?" iCA Te? Me huh? What are you iVl talking about?" "Leontans are great artists. Sergeant Morgenstern. They make arts of a lot of things we wouldn't glorify with the name. The art of making love with a complete stranger, for example. Don't thev also make a special study of maochism?" Morgenstern was sweating. He looked desperately at the court president and then at his counsel. Francis was frowning at some papers in front of him. "Did you, too, inflict pain on Oeea with her sanction. Sergeant?" "Me? No, never." "Then who was responsible for the previous injuries?" "I don't know." "Sergeant, about two weeks before April # Oeea had suffered injuries comparable to those which Slater later inflicted. Surely you must have known about them? According to her evidence you were very close at around that time. According to your own evidence, you were lovers at that time. How is it possible that -- " "I remember now," said Morgenstern quickly. "We had a fight. A quarrel. Yes, I did hit her." "Quite extensively?' "Maybe." "This was at the Leisure Club, in that same room?" "Yes." "Yet once again she didn't cry out, didn't scream, didn't -- " Major Francis interrupted. Addressing General Hebbenton, he said that it was hard to see the relevance IF of this matter. "We are concerned with the night of April #. On direct examination, I covered nothing else. The events of some unspecified date prior to April # are not in question." "The court takes note of your remarks, Major Francis," Hebbenton said. "Nevertheless, I am going to permit the judge advocate to continue this line of questioning." Francis shrugged and sat down. "Is it not a fact," said Duke, "that the Leontan girl Oeea takes pleasure in pain and cannot or will not make love unless an element of mascohism is present? Didn't you frequently beat her. Sergeant?" "Only twice." "And on those two occasions did she remain silent?" "Well, she didn't scream." "No, because if she had screamed you'd have been interrupted, wouldn't you? And why should she scream, because she enjoyed being hurt, didn't she?" "Why don't you ask her?" Morgenstem said desperately. Francis was standing to object again. The officers of the court were staring intently at Morgenstem. Hebbenton rapped on the table and calfed the two counsels to confer with him. "Major Duke," he said quietly, "what do you wish to establish by this line of questioning?" "Morgenstern's defense is that he was so justifiably enraged at the sight of his girl being tortured that he lost control and killed Slater. If it is true that the girl is a masochist, then she may have ddiberately incited Stater to do what he did. And if Morgenstern knew all about it, the case for conspiracy is strengthened." "Conspiracy?" "This is my case, sir." "To establish that," said Major Francis slowly, "even if it's well founded, another trial would be necessary." Hebbenton turned to him. "I propose to recall Oeea, Major." "Yes, sir." "You have no objections?" "I have many objections to a great many things in this trial, sir. I have bowed to your judgment because the circumstances are, after all, unusual." vn O eea was as cool as ever when she was recalled. She refused to lie. Yes, she was a masochist. Every time Morgenstem and she had made love he had beat her. This had happened on four occasions. She had not known on April # that any trace remained of the last of these occasions. She had thought herself completely recovered. She denied everything else. But the writing was on the wall. When Duke made his closing address, he linked together all the little pieces of evidences he had managed Oeea, a masochist, had been chosen as a Princess of Love. Duke cast doubt on the allegation that Morgenstern had known nothing of this until fS the curtains were drawn back to reveal her in the alcove. Morgenstern's previous hatred of Slater was well established. Ejected from the club, Morgenstern knew how to get back in. A trapdoor was left open. "Now we come to the two Leontans who testified," Duke said. "I submit that they were to be in the back regions at a predetermined time. We have heard how they tried to take a Terran party with them. Morgenstern's justifiable homicide was to be observed by so many witnesses, Leontan and Terran, that no doubt about any of the circumstances could possibly exist. But the Terrans didn't go, and the Leontans had to go by themselves. "Oeea left her door unlocked, incited Slater to beat her, and kept him turned with his back to the door. The time schedule must have been arranged rather carefully. And everything worked out neatly. Morgenstern arrived and struck Slater with a metal lamp. I have already remarked on the coincidence of such an instrument being readily available. As it happened, Morgenstern only had to strike once. Had it been necessary, he could have finished Slater off, still in his alleged mad rage "Morgenstern first said he had never deliberately inflicted pain on the girl. Then he said he had done it once, in a quarrel. His written statement says they never quarreled Then he admitted he had beaten her twice. The girl herself said this happened on four occasions. "I must now say a word about the motives of the people concerned. It is a truism that a trial on a capital charge should never be swayed by the political consequences involved. But the motives on the Leontan side are all political. "Morgenstern merely hajted Captain Slater and saw, or was offered, an opportunity to kill him without having to suffer the usual consequences. "When we come to the Leontans, we have to consider the whole Terran situation here. Discipline is always a difficult problem for an occupying army. Solders wish to be on friendly terms with the local people. But the Leontans aren't particularly friendly. And they exacerbate most disciplinary actions by taking the side of the participant who holds less rank. "Here the Leontans saw a chance to have a sergeant murder a captain and more or less get away with it. Now as you can all see for yourself, the actual outcome of the case didn't worry them at all. Morgenstern was only a tool to create dissension." Morgenstern started at this and stared angrily at Duke. "If he was found guilty of murder and shot," Duke went on, "on the evidence which was supposed to be before us, the verdict would seem cruel and unjust, and the occupying army would have seethed with unrest. If he was given a light sentence or released not guilty, the verdict would be practically a mandate for any disgruntled corporal or private IF to plot the death of a colonel or major he didn't like -- with Leontan assistance, of course. For something like this which worked once would be well worth trying another time." He paused to let that sink in. And he didn't say much more. The officers at the table had to make up their own minds whether a conspiracy had been established. There was nothing more he could do. Francis made the best of a bad job. He pointed out the circumstantial nature of the prosecution case. And he stressed that Morgenstern was on trial, not Oeea and the other Leontans. Even if there was something in the prosecution's theories, Sergant Morgenstern was, as the judge advocate said, no more than a tool. Morgenstern had killed a man who was beating up his girl. Nothing which anybody said could ever cloud that clear issue. If there was a sinister background, the court could not eradicate it or punish those concerned by harshness toward Morgenstern. Francis had a good legal point there, Duke thought. But in the defense counsel's place he doubted if he'd have made it. For to make that point he had to accuse his own client of conspiracy with the enemy...of treason. The court retired for four hours. Morgenstern was found guilty and sentenced to death. D uke switched out the light and composed himself for sleep. His barge left at six the next morning, and he was practically ready to step on it. He had one of the four bedrooms at the landing field post. General Bailey had thanked him gruffly. Duke had done the job for which Bailey had sent for him. To Duke's question whether the verdict would do any real good, Bailey said grimly: "Major, it's only in storybooks that a situation is solved in an instant. I've never in my army career seen any awkward situation that could be cleared up like switching on a light. Sometimes situations like this clear themselves up, sometimes they die from lack of ammunition. All I know is, my personal position is a little more secure today than it was before. Morgenstern killed Slater. And if you'd failed, it would have been much worse. To that extent, this has been a victory and not a defeat." Morgenstern had already been shot. Duke wasn't sorry for him. Duke at least was convinced of the soundness of his own case, and satisfied that Morgenstern deserved death. Nothing could be done about the Leontans, unfortunately. They hadn't murdered anybody. They had hardly even told any lies. They were as pure as the driven snow. Duke was on the point of dropping off when he heard a knock at the door. "Who is it?" he demanded sleepily. "It's me, Sergeant Brown." Duke got out of bed and put a dressing gown over his pajamas. He twitched on the light again and opened the door. "There's a lady to see you, sir," the sergeant said. "A lady?" "A Leontan girl, sir." That could only be Oeea. If he hadn't already had to get out of bed, he'd probably have told the sergeant to send her away. But Duke was as curious as the next man. Why should Oeea want to see him? "Send her up," he said. She came in wearing a heavy coat. Before saying a word to him she shed this, and then the woolen jacket she wore beneath it, and then her thick slacks. "You plan to stay?" said Duke politely. "Yes." She took off her heavy shoes and put on a pair of slippers she had brought with her. She was now dressed in nothing in particular. "Now, wait a minute," said Duke, frowning. "Oeea, I got your lover shot. I also spoiled a good plan. You can't make me believe I'm high on your list of favorite characters." "You're not," she said coolly, sitting on a couch and arranging her bare legs provocatively, one on the seat and the other along the back. "Then why are you here?" For a moment he had a horrible dread that she was going to tell him triumphantly that he'd been wrong all along, that there was no conspiracy, that Morgenstem had been shot when some lesser punishment would have been more appropriate. He needn't have worried. "Because you're leaving Leonta. Because I can't believe a man like you can be without influence among his own people. Would you like to beat me. Major?" "No." She saw he meant it, and shrugged. "Well, you don't have to. It's an acquired taste, pleasure in pain. I can stay with you and we'll be as tender toward each other as you could wish." "I don't want you to stay with me." "No? Maybe you'll change your mind. Major, you don't like me, do you?" "No." "Perhaps you'll like me less when I tell you I never cared much for Sergeant Morgenstem. I used him, as you said." Duke remained silent. "Major, I still want you to understand me. And us. I know a lot about your people. Like us, they would never submit to dominion by anyone else." "I seem to remember that when Leonta and Earth fought, Leonta was the aggressor." "When two peoples have to fight, what does it matter who strikes the first blow? You know that occupation is no good. Major. If Leonta and Earth are ever really at peace, it will have to be as equals." uke nodded reluctantly. "I've read Terran history. When you fight a war, you support partisans, don't you? You make use of n IP guerrilla warfare? Sabotage? Espionage? You use fools and traitors?" "Yes." "Then you must understand the Morgenstem affair now, Major. You must open your eyes to it. As a people we're not perfect. Neither are you. Perhaps we have both made mistakes, ethical and logical. At the moment, Earth has an army of occupation on Leonta. We want rid of it. By every means in our power. And on the face of it we haven't many -- and most of them dirty." Duke now had no difficulty in seeing what she meant or in understanding why she had come to him. And reluctantly he concurred. Leonta was not the kind of world to accept even civilized, conventional, treaty-bound slavery. Leonta, like Earth, had pride. Leonta had to right and go on fighting. And Oeea simply wanted him to understand. That was all. She couldn't believe he was without influence, she said. "Well, perhaps he wasn't. So it was worth while for her to spend an hour with him, perhaps a night with him, so that Major Nigel Duke would understand Leonta better. It might pay. "You'd do the same if you had to, wouldn't you?" she said softly. "Yes," he admitted. "Fd do the same." "Do I go or stay?" she asked even more softly. He sighed. "You stay." . r I .Kc K In the next big issue of IF  K K K S#C #C c  c Complete Short Novel by Hal Clement I  a-ccc  scc by Algis Budrys i:   " ccc . ( J  ) .c Kc by Pool Anderson c  ccc -- and many more  Mtty Issue on sale Morch #th -- reserve your copy!c Tf IF  Short Story IK The moment is at hand -- the fingers are poised -- this is what comes next! years of uneasy peace, since the Hour of Tragedy ten apprehensive, uneasy years pungent with fear, with hatred, distrust... ten years like ten thousand in the past of man . ten units out of the infinite, out of time the eternal, immutable, nonexistent dimension... # planets spinning... nine spawn of the sun, one of them nascent, a hairsbreadth from its heritage. But which heritage? It could" choose. The fertile warmth of the parent star . or the star's pure fire? # periods, in the gibberish of the sifters of chaos eight: PreCambrian to Triassic -- while flame cooled and became stone and lay latent, lambent, pent awaiting release -- before from the tetid Jurassic darknesses the beasts of warm blood crawled # seas, once the womb of life, then too long its caul... the common birthplace, then a strangling wall between. (Once too, briefly a high road for the courageous, now a new kind of night for marauders, shadowed shapes armed with pieces of the sun.) masses of land, cradles for the genesis of a myriad species... and one of them Man. Man the Creator, the Protector, the Destroyer: builder of shrines, burner of saints, good father, good soldier, good killer... Man, the creature of choice. nations remaining, sparse ruddy fruit of a thousand wars, nurbloody consequence of union into pack into tribe, into fief, to kingdom, empire and nation. The threads of history gathered finally into five flags, entwined in alliance at this point in time by a searing wind: IF Pan-American, Sino-Russian, AfroArabian... racial armies, sons of the first beast to kill from anger, fathers of the unborn. Armies in the terrible truce of the fusion bomb... waiting. # farflung networks: metal wire and machines, and vacuum. Interlinked webs of detection and retaliation or attack, within the webs bombs... , within the bombs targets, mapped and doomed by a spark. Each alliance a network of aimed and armed missiles, in deserts, on mountaintops, hidden deep and in the surrounding seas. Each alliance a pattern of targets, always an instant from obliteration. (Such had come to Britain in its Hour of Tragedy when the last savage hope of Empire Regained dissolved into vapor, and the Isles became slag. There the fourth network corroded under a shroud of ash; but the surviving three ceaselessly hummed.) # men, of one species but riven somehow at this point in time by pigment, tongue and details of dress: a man from Brownsville, a man from Vladivostok, a man trom Khartoum... buried deep in the hearts of the networks, each already entombed, and so safe from death. Each chosen by his masters to be the nock of the arrow, the final factor; yet not an arrow, for each network of course was aimed at both the others. A moment's trust is fatal once the truce is broken, the masters reasoned, and so the bombs and the men were trained.   # buttons, a choice under the fingers of each of these men: one, red, to loose deliberately the double pronged torrent of bombs if the masters so decreed. The other, white, to cancel fhe launching command broadcast automatically if massive radiation spewed across the homeland... a vast, vicio.us death reflex. Each man, then, if the detectors tolled, had the decision: error or attack. Fail or be unable to press the white instantly, and the counterattack, if such it was, began. This, then, was the masters' last concession to the human factor, their grudging one to humanity. And like most of the masters' concessions to the masses, it was false. Identically, in each network, the white button was a dummy. The real choice was as it always was -- red button, kill... or wait yet a while more. The men in the tombs, unknowing, knew this was the choice. I mao's brain, whosoever, however carefully masters may mold it, is a fragile thing. Ten thousand years have not fitted man to live with himself; could a single man The choice, distillate of a hundred centuries of pain, the weariness of a species with race: blame them, blame all. One of the men sitting in a cold tomb sweated. His finger hovered over the red button, trembled .  . and fell.    n IF # Serial On Venus, there really are fairies at the bottom of one's garden. One flits there now, ready to kill me! # I reswallowed my heart. "Why a bomb? And what did you do with it?" He shrugged. "They were stupid. They paid me this silly amount, see? Just to sneak this little package aboard. Gave me a lot of north wind about how it was meant to be a surprise for the captain -- and that I should give it to him at the captain's party, last night out. Gift wrapped and everything. 'Sonny,' this silly zero says to me, 'just keep it out of sight and let him be surprised, heir Imagine me, Poddy of Mars, on Venus! Not only me but my brother Clark that dryland imp of Satan) and also my Uncle Tom -- and not only on Venus, but living like an empress and squired to all that planet s lovely, foolish, extravagant Best Places by Dexter Kurt Cunha, who is next in line to become practically an emperor in fact! Of course there are a few drawbacks. I do miss. Mom and Dad -- and the new babies who were too little to travel -- and  do have one cross to bear -- namely Clark. It isnt bad enough that he should have a typical small-boy crush how he would hate me for saying that!) on my good and beautiful friend Girdie, whom we met on the ship. Girdie is older than I am, but doesnt make me miserable for it. On the ship, where the other females were either Utter Beasts like Mrs. Garcia and Mrs. Royer or friendly but ancient grandmas like Mrs. Grew, she was my Best Friend.) It isnt enough that he should be beating the house regularly at the Venusburg gambling salons. Worse, he has just admitted that he used me to smuggle something aboard ship and onto Venus. What did he smuggle, you ask? Oh, nothing serious. Just a small but very lethal) atomic bomb -- bribed to do it, you see, by a couple of shifty-eyed strangers! cause last night out is not only the captain's party, it's his birthday.' "Now, Sis, you know I wouldn't swallow anything like that. If it had really been a birthday present they would just have given it to the purser to hold. No need to bribe me. So I just played stupid and kept jacking up the price. And the idiots paid me. They got real jumpy when time came to shove us through passport clearance and paid all I asked. So I shoved it into your bag while you were yakking to Uncle Tom -- then saw to it you didn't get inspected. "Then the minute we were aboard I went to get it -- and got held up by a stewardess spraying your cabin and had to do a fast job and go back to relock your bag because Uncle Tom came back in looking for his pipe. That first night I opened the thing in the dark -- and opened it from the bottom; I already had a hunch what it might be." "Why?" "Sis, use your brain. Don't just sit there and let it rust out. First they offer me what they probably figured was big money to a kid. When I turn it down, they start to sweat and up the ante. I kept crowding it and the money got important. And more important. They don't even give me a tale about how a man with a flower on his lapel will come aboard at Venus and give me a pass word. It has to be that they don't care what happens to it as long as it gets into the ship. What does that add up to? Logic." He added, "So I opened it and took it apart. Time bomb. Set for three days after we space. Blooey T I shivered, thinking about it. "What a horrible thing to do!" "It could have turned out pretty dry," he admitted, "if I had been as stupid as they thought I was." "But why would anybody want to do such a thing?" "Didn't want the ship to get to Venus." "But whyr "You figure it out. I have." "Uh...what did you do with it?" "Oh, I saved it. The essential pieces. Never know when you might need a bomb." And that's all I got out of him -- and here I am stuck with a Saint Podkayne oath not to tell And nineteen questions left unanswered. Was there really a bomb? Or was I swindled by my brother's talent for improvising explanations that throw one off the obvious track? If there was, where is it? Still in the Tricorn? Right here in this suite? In an innocent looking package in the safe of the Tannhauser? Or parked with his private bodyguard, Josie? Or a thousand other places in this big city? Or is it still more likely that I simply made a mistake of three kilograms in my excitement and that Clark was snooping just to be snooping? Which he will always do if not busy otherwise. No way to tell. So I decided to squeeze what else I could from this Moment of Truth -- if it was one. "I'm awful glad you found it," I said. "But the slickest thing you ever did was that dye job on Mrs. Garcia and Mrs. Royer. Girdie admires it, too." "She does?" he said eagerly. "She certainly does. But I never let on you did it. So you can still tell Tier yourself, if you want to." "Mmm..." He looked quite happy. "I gave Old Lady Royer a little extra, just for luck. Put a mouse in her bed." "Clark! Oh, wonderful! But where did you get a mouse?" "Made a deal with the ship's cat." I wish I had a nice, normal, slightly stupid family. It would be a lot more comfortable. Still, Clark has his points. B ut I haven't had too much time to worry about my brother's High Crimes and Misdemeanors; Venusberg offers too much to divert the adolescent female with a hitherto unsuspected taste for high living. Especially Dexter. I am no longer a leper; I can now go anywhere, even outside the city, IF without wearing a filter snout that makes me look like a blue-eyed pig -- and dashing, darling Dexter has been most flatteringly eager to escort me ever#here. Even shopping. Using both hands a girl could spend a national debt here on clothes alone. But I am being (almost) sensible and spending only that portion of my cash assets earmarked for Venus. If I were not Firm with him, Dexter would buy me anything I admire, just by lifting his finger. (He never carries any money, not even a credit card, and even his tipping is done by some unobvious credit system.) But I haven't let him buy me anything more important than a fancy ice cream sundae; I have no intention of jeopardizing my amateur status for some pretty clothes. But I don't feel too compromised over ice cream and fortunately I do not as yet have to worry about my waistline -- I'm hollow clear to my ankles. So, after a hard day of sweating over the latest Rio styles, Dexter takes me to an ice cream parlor -- one that bears the same relation to our Plaza Sweet Shoppe that the Tricorn does to a sand car -- and he sits and toys with cafe au lait and watches in amazement while I eat. First some little trifle like an everlasting strawberry soda, then more serious work on a "sundae" composed "by a master architect from creams and syrups and imported fruits and nuts of course, and perhaps a couple of tens of scoops of ice cream in various flavors and named "The Taj Mahal" or "The Big Rock Candy Mountain" or such. (Poor Girdie! She diets like a Stylite every day of the year. Query: Will I ever make that sacrifice to remain svelte and glamorous? Or will I get comfortably fat like Mrs. Grew? Echo Answereth Not and I'm afraid to listen.) I've had to be firm with him in other ways, too, but much less obviously. Dexter turns out to be a master of seductive logic and is ever anxious to tell me a bedtime story. But I have no intention of being a Maid Betrayed, not at my age. The tragedy about Romeo and Juliet is not that they died so young but that the boy-meets-girl reflex should be so overpowering as to defeat all common sense. My own reflexes are fine, thank you, and my hormonal balance is just dandy. Dexter's fruitless overtures give me a nice warm feeling at the pit of my stomach and hike up my metabolism. Perhaps I should feel insulted at his dastardly intentions toward me. And possibly I would, at home, but this is Venusberg, where the distinction between a shameful proposition and a formal proposal of honorable marriage lies only in the mind and would strain a semantician to define. For all I know Dexter already has seven wives at home, numbered for the days of the week. I haven't asked him, as I have no intention of becoming number eight, on any basis. I talked this over with Girdie and asked why I didn't feel "insulted." IF Had they left the moral circuits out of my Cybernet, as they so obviously did with my brother Clark? Girdie smiled her sweet and secret smile that always means she is thinking about something she doesn't intend to be fully frank about. Then she said, "Poddy, girls are taught to be 'insulted' at such offers for their own protection. It is a good idea, quite as good an idea as keeping a fire extinguisher handy even though you don't expect a fire. But you are right. It is not an insult, it is never an insult -- it is the one utterly honest tribute to a woman's charm and femininity that a man can offer her. The rest of what they tell us is mostly polite lies...but on this one subject a man is nakedly honest. I don't see any reason ever to be insulted if a man is polite and gallant about it." I thought about it. "Maybe you're right, Girdie. I guess it is a compliment, in a way. But why is it that that is all a boy is ever after? -- nine times out of ten anyhow." "You've got it just backwards. Poddy. Why should he ever be after evolution is tl;e logic behind every proposition. Just be glad that the dears have learned to approach the matter with hand-kissing instead of a club. Some of them, anyhow. It gives us more choice in the matter than we've ever had before in all history. It's a woman's world today, dear. Enjoy it and be grateful." I had never thought of it that way. When I've thought of it at all, I've n os O if been groused because it is so hard for a girl to break into a "male" profession, such as piloting. I 've been doing some hard thinking about piloting -- and have concluded that there are more ways of skinning a cat than buttering it with parsnips. Do I really want to be a "famous explorer captain"? Or would I be just as happy to be some member of his crew? Oh, I want to space, let there be no doubt about that! My one little trip from Mars to Venus makes me certain that travel is for me. I'd rather be a junior stewardess in the Tricorn than President of the Republic. Shipboard life is fun. You take your home and your friends along with you while you go to romantic new places -- and with Davisdrive star ships being built those places are going to be newer and more romantic every year. And Poddy is going to go, somehow. I was born to roam. But let's not kid ourselves, shall we? Is anybody going to let Poddy captain one of those multimegabuck ships? Dexter's chances are a hundred times as good as mine. He's as smart as I am, or almost. He'll have the best education for it that money can buy. (While I'm loyal to Ares U., I know it is a hick college compared with where he plans to go. ) And also it is quite possible that his Daddy could buy him a Star Rover ship. But the clincher is that Dexter is twice as big as I am and male. Even if you # leave his father's wealth out of the equation, which one of us gets picked? But all is not lost. Consider Theodora, consider Catherine the Great. Let a man boss the job...then boss that man. I am not opposed to marriage. (But if Dexter wants to marry me -- or anything -- he'll have to follow me to Marsopolis where we are pretty old-fashioned about such things. None of this light-hearted Venusberg stuff!) Marriage should be every woman's end -- but not her finish. I do not regard marriage as a sort of death. Girdie says always to "be what you are." All right, let's look at ourselves in a mirror, dear, and forget "Captain Podkayne Fries, the Famous Explorer" for the nonce. What do we see? Getting just a touch broad-shouldered in the hips, aren't we, dear? No longer any chance of being mistaken for a boy in a dim light. One might say that we were designed for having babies. And that doesn't seem, too bad an idea, now does it? Especially if we could have one as nice as Duncan. Fact is, all babies are pretty nice even when they're not. Those eighteen miserable hours during the storm in the Tricorn, changing infants -- weren't they just about the most fun you ever had in your life? A baby is lots more fun than differential equations. Every star ship has a creche. So which is better? To study creche engineering and pediatrics -- and be a department head in a star ship? Or buck for pilot training and make it...and wind up as a female pilot nobody wants to hire? Well, we don't have to decide now -- I 'm getting pretty anxious for us to shape for Earth. Truth is, Venusberg's fleshpots can grow monotonous to one of my wholesome (or should say "limited") tastes. I haven't any more money for shopping, not if I am to have any to shop in Paris; I don't think I could ever get addicted to gambling (and don't want to; I'm one of those who lose and thereby offset in part Clark's winning); and the incessant noise and lights are going to put wrinkles where I now have dimples. And I think Dexter is beginning to be just a bit bored with my naive inability to understand what he is driving at. If there is any one thing I have learned about males in my eight and a half years (Mars years, of course), it is that one should sign off before he gets bored. I look forward to just one last encounter with Dexter now: a tearful farewell just before I must enter the Tricornes loading tube, with a kiss so grown up, so utterly passionate and all-out giving, that he will believe the rest of his life that Things Could Have Been Different if Only He Had Played His Cards Right. I've been outside the city just once, in a sealed tourist bus. Once is more than enough. This ball of smog and swamp should be given IF back to the natives, only they wouldn't take it. Once a fairy in flight was pointed out, so they said, but I didn't see anything. Just smog. I'll settle now for just one fairy, in flight or even perched. Dexter says that he knows of a whole colony, a thousand or more, less than two hundred kilometers away, and wants to show it to me in his Rolls. But I'm not warm to that idea. He intends to drive it himself -- and that dratted thing has automatic controls. If I can sneak Girdie, or even Clark, into the picnic -- well, maybe. But I have learned a lot on Venus and would not have missed it for anything. The Art of Tipping, especially, and npw I feel like an Experienced Traveler. Tipping can be a nuisance but it is not quite the vice Marsmen think it is. It is a necessary lubricant for perfect service. Let's admit it; service in Marsopolis varies from indifferent to terrible. I simply had not realized it. A clerk waits on you when he feels like it and goes on gossiping with another clerk until he does feel like it. Not like that in Venusberg! However, it is not just the money -- and here follows the Great Secret of Happy Travel. I haven't soaked up much Portuguese and not everybody speaks Ortho. But it isn't necessary to be a linguist if you will learn just one word -- in as many languages as possible. Just "Thank you." I caught onto this first with Maria and Maria -- I say, "Gobble-gobble" to them a hundred times a day, only the word is actually "Obrigado" which sounds like "Gobble-gobble" if you say it quickly. A small tip is much more savoir-fairish service -- when accompanied by "Thank you" than a big tip while saying nothing. So I've learned to say "Thank you" in as many languages as possible and I always try to say it in the home language of the person I'm dealing with, if I can guess it, which I usually can. Doesn't matter much if you miss, though. Porters and clerks and taxi drivers and such usually know that one word in several languages and can spot it even if you can't talk with them at all in any other way. I've written a lot of them down and memorized them: Obrigado Donkey-Shane Mare-see Key Toss M'Goy Graht-see-eh Arigato Spawseebaw Grathee-oss Tock Oh "Money Tock" and Clark says this one means "Money talks." But Clark is wrong; he has to tip too high because he won't bother to say "Thank you." Oh, yes, Clark tips. It hurts him. but he soon discovered that he couldn't get a taxi and that even automatic vending machines were rude to him if he tried to buck the local system But it infuriates him so much that he won't be pleasant about it and that costs him. If you say "Tock" instead of "Key Toss" to a Finn, he still understands it. If you mistake a Japanese for a Cantonese and say "M'goy" instead of "Arigato" -- well, that is the one word of Cantonese he knows. And "Obrigado" everybody understands. However, if you do guess right and pick their home language, they roll out the red carpet and genuflect, all smiles. I've even had tips refused -- and this in a city where Clark's greediness about money is considered only natural. AU those other long, long lists of hints on How to Get Along While Traveling that I studied so carefully before I left turn out not to be necessary. This one rule does it all. Uncle Tom is dreadfully worried about something. He's absentminded and, while he will smile at me if I manage to get his attention "not easy", the smile soon fades and the worry lines show again. Maybe it's something here and things will be all right once we leave. I wish we were back in the nappy ThreeCornered Hat with next stop Luna City T hings are really grim. Clark hasn't been home for two nights and Uncle Tom is almost out of his mind. Besides that. I've had a quarrel with Dexter -- which isn't important compared with Brother being missing, but I could surely use a shoulder to cry on. And Uncle Tom has had a real quarrel with Mr. Chairman -- which was what led to my quarrel with Dexter, because I Was on Uncle Tom's side even though I didn't know what was going on and I discovered that Dexter was just as blind in his loyalty to his father as I am to Uncle Tom. I saw only a bit of the quarrel with Mr. Chairman. It was one of those frightening, cold, bitter, formally polite, grown-men quarrels of the sort that used to lead inevitably to pistols at dawn. I think it almost did. Mr. Chairman arrived at our suite, looking not at all like Santa Claus, and I heard Uncle say coldly, "I would rather your friends had called on me, sir." But Mr. Chairman ignored that and about then Uncle noticed that I was there -- back of the piano, keeping quiet and trying to look small -- and sent me to my room. But I know what part of it is. I had thought that both Clark and I had been allowed to run around loose in Venusberg -- although I have usually had either Girdie or Dexter with me. Not so. Both of us have been guarded night and day, every instant we have been out of the Tannhauser, by Corporation police. I never suspected this and I'm sure Clark didn't or he would never have hired Josie to watch his boodle. But Uncle did know it and had accepted it as a courtesy from Mr. Chairman, one that left him free to do whatever these things are that have kept him so busy here, without riding herd on two kids, one of them nutty as Christmas cake. (And I don't mean me.) ir As near as I can reconstruct it Uncle blames Mr. Chairman for Clark's absence -- although this is hardly fair, as Clark, if he knew he was being watched, could evade eighteen private eyes, the entire Space Corps and a pack of slavering bloodhounds. Or is it wolfhounds? But, on top of this, Dexter says that they disagree completely on how to locate Clark. Myself, I think that Clark is missing because Clark wants to be missing, because he intends to miss the ship and stay here on Venus where (a) Girdie is and where (b) all that lovely money is. Although perhaps I have put them in the wrong order. I keep telling myself this, but Mr. Chairman says that it is a kidnapping, that it has to be a kidnapping and that there is only one way to handle a kidnapping on Venus if one ever expects to see the kidnappee alive again. On Venus, kidnapping is just about the only thing a stockholder is afraid of. In fact they are so afraid of it that they have brought the thing down almost to a ritual. If the kidnapper plays by the rules and doesn't hurt his victim, he not only won't be punished but he has the Corporation's assurance that he can keep any ransom agreed on. But if he doesn't play by the rules and they do catch him, well, it's pretty grisly. Some of the things Dexter just hinted at. But I understand that the mildest punishment is something called a "four-hour death." He wouldn't give me any details on this, either -- except that there is some drug that is just the opposite of anesthesia. It makes pain hurt worse. D exter says that Clark is absolutely safe -- as long as Uncle Tom doesn't insist on meddling with things he doesn't understand. "Old fool" is one term that he used, and that was when I slapped him. Long sigh and a wish for my happy girlhood in Marsopolis, where I understood how things worked. I don't here. All I really know is that I can no longer leave the suite save with Uncle Tom -- and must leave it and stay with him when he does and wherever he goes. Which is how I at last saw the Cunha "cottage" -- and would have been much interested if Clark hadn't been missing. A modest little place only slightly smaller than the Tannhauser, but much more lavish. Our President's Rose House would fit into its ballroom. That is where I quarreled with Dexter while Uncle and Mr. Chairman were continuing their worse quarrel elsewhere in that "cottage." Presently Uncle Tom took me back to the Tannhauser and I've never seen him look so old -- fifty at least, or call it a hundred and fifty of the years they use here. We had dinner in the suite and neither of us ate anything and after dinner I went over and sat by the living window. The view was from Earth, I guess. The Grand Canyon of El Dorado, or El Colorado, or whatever it is. Grand, certainly. But all I got was acrophobia and tears. Uncle was just sitting, looking like Prometheus enduring the eagles. I put my hand in his and said, "Uncle Tom? I wish you would spank me." "Eh?" He shook his head and seemed to see me. "Flicka! Why?" "Because it's my fault." "What do you mean, dear?" "Because I'm responsibubul for Clark. I always have been. He hasn't any sense. Why, when he was a baby I must have kept him from falling in the Canal at least a thousand times." He shook his head, negatively this time. "No, Poddy, It is my responsibility and not yours at all. I am in loco parentis to both of you. Which means that your parents were loco ever to trust me with it." "But I feel responsible. He's my Chinese obligation." He shook his head still again. "No. In sober truth no person can ever be truly responsible for another human being. Each one of us faces up to the universe alone -- and the universe is what it is and it doesn't soften the rules for any of us...and eventually, in the long run, the universe always wins and takes all. But that doesn't make it any easier when we try to be responsible for another -- as you have -- as I have -- and then look back and see how we could have done it better." He sighed. "I should not have blamed Mr. Cunha. He tried to take care of Clark, too. Of both of you. I knew it." He paused and added, "It was just that I had a foul suspicion, an unworthy one, that he was using Clark to bring pressure on me. I was wrong. In his way and by his rules, Mr. Cunha is an honorable man. His rules do not include using a boy for political purposes." U ncle looked around at me, as if surprised that I was still in the room. "Poddy, I should have told you more than I have. I keep forgetting that you are now a woman. I always think of you as the baby who used to climb on my knee and ask me to tell her 'The Poddy Story.' " He took a deep breath. "I still won't burden you with all of it. But I owe Mr. Cunha an abject apology -- because I was using Clark for political purposes. And you, too." "Huh?" "As a cover-up, dear. Doddering great uncle escorts beloved niece and nephew on pleasure tour. I'm sorry. Poddy, but it isn't that way at all. The truth is I am Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary for the Republic. To the Three Planets Summit. But it seemed desirable to keep it a secret until I present my credentials." I didn't answer beause I was having a little trouble soaking this in. I mean, I know Uncle Tom is pretty special and has done some important things But all my life he has been somebody who always had time to hold a skein of yarn for me while I wound it and would take serious interest in helping me name paper dolls. But he was talking. "So I used IF you, Flicka. You and your brother. Because -- Poddy, do you really want to know all the ins and outs and snarls of the politics behind this?" I did very much. But I tried to be grown up. "Just whatever you think best to tell me, Uncle Tom." "All right. Because some of it is sordid and all of it is complex and would take hours to explain. And some of it really isn't mine to tell; some of it involves Bozo -- Sorry, the President. Some of it has to do with promises he made. Do you know who our Ambassador is, now, at Luna City?" I tried to remember. "Mr. Suslov?" "No, that was last administration. Artie Finnegan. Artie isn't too bad a boy, but he thinks he should have been President and he's certain he knows more about interplanetary affairs and what is good for Mars than the President does. Means well, no doubt." I didn't comment because the name "Arthur Finnegan" I recognized at once -- because I had once heard Uncle Tom sound off about him to Daddy when I was supposed to be in bed and asleep. Some of the milder expressions were "a head like a sack of mud," "larceny in his heart" and a "size twelve ego in a size nine soul." "But even though he means well," Uncle Tom went on. "he doesn't see eye to eye with the President -- and myself -- on matters that will come before this conference. But, unless the President sends a special envoy -- me, in this case -- the Ambassador in residence automatically speaks for Mars. Poddy, what do you know about Switzerland?" "That's enough, I guess, although there probably never was an apple. Poddy, Mars is the Switeerland of the Solar System -- or it isn't anything at all. So the President thinks, and so I think. A small man (and a small country, like Mars or Switzerland) can stand up to bigger, powerful neighbors only by being war and I pray we never do, because we would probably lose it. But if we have to fight." H e sighed. "That's the way I see it. But Mr. Finnegan thinks that because Mars is small and weak Mars should join up with the Terran Federation. Perhaps he's right and this really is the wave of the future. But I don't think so. I think it would be the end of Mars as an independent country and a free society. Furthermore, I think it is logical that, if Mars gives up its independence, it is only a matter of time until Venus goes the same way. I've been spending the time since we got here trying to convince Mr. Cunha of this, cause him to have his Resident Commissioner make a common cause with us against Terra. This could persuade Luna to come in with us, too, since both Venus and Mars can sell to Luna cheaper than Terra can. But it wasn't at all easy; the Corporation has such a long-standing policy of never meddling in politics at all. 'Put not your faith in princes' -- which means to them that they buy and they seD and they ask no questions. "But I have been trying to make Mr. Cunha see that if Luna and Mars and Terra -- the Jovian moons hardly count -- if those three were all under the same rules, in short order Venus Corporation would be no more free than is General Motors or I.G. Farbenindustrie. He got the picture, too, I'm sure -- until I jumped to conclusions about Clark's disappearance and blew my top at him." He shook his head. "Poddy, I'm a poor excuse for a diplomat." "You aren't the only one who got sore," I said, and told him about slapping Dexter. He smiled for the first time. "Oh, Poddy, Poddy, we'll never make a lady out of you. You're as bad as m. So I grinned back at him and started picking my teeth with a fingernail. This is an even ruder gesture than you might think -- and utterly private between Uncle Tom and myself. We Maori have a very bloodthirsty history and I won't even hint at what it is we are supposed to be picking out of our teeth. Uncle Tom used to use this vulgar pantomime on mer when I was a little girl, to tell me I wasn't being ladylike. Whereupon he really smiled and mussed my hair. "You're the blondest, blue-eyed savage I ever saw. But you're a savage, all right. And me, too. Better tell him you're sorry, hon, because, much as I appreciate your gallant defense of me, Dexter was perfectly right. I was an 'old fool.' I'll apologize to his father, doing the last hundred meters on my belly if he wants it that way. A man should admit it in full when he's wrong and make amends. And you kiss and make up with Dexter. Dexter is a fine boy." "I'll say I'm sorry and .make up -- but I don't think I'll kiss him. I haven't yet." He looked surprised. "So? Don't you like him? Or have we brought too much Norse blood into the family?" "I like Dexter just fine and you're crazy with the smog if you think Svenska blood is any colder than Polynesian. I could go for Dexter in a big way -- and that's why I haven't kissed him." H e considered this. "I think you're wise, hon. Better do your practice kisses on boys who don't tend to cause your gauges to swing over into the red. Anyhow, although he's a good lad, he's not nearly good enough for my savage niece." "Maybe so, maybe not. Uncle... what are you going to do about Clark?" His halfway happy mood vanished. "Nothing. Nothing at all." "But we've got to do something!" "But what, Podkayne?" There he had me. I had already chased it through all the upper and lower segments of my brain. Tell the police? Mr. Chairman is the police -- they all work for him. Hire a private detective? If Venus has any (I don't know), then they all are under contract to Mr. Cunha, or rather, the Venus Corporation. Run ads in newspapers? Question all the taxi drivers? Put Clark's picture in the sollies and offer rewards? It didn't matter what you thought of, everything on Venus belongs to Mr. Chairman. Or, rather, to the corporation he heads. Same thing, really, although Uncle Tom tells me that the Cunha actually own only a fraction of the stock. "Poddy, I've been over everything I could think of with Mr. Cunha -- and he is either already doing it, or he has convinced me that here, under conditions he knows much better than I do, it should not be done." "Then what do we do? "We wait. But if you think of anything -- anything -- that you think might help, tell me and if it isn't already being done, we'll call Mr. Cunha and find out if it should be done. If I'm asleep, wake me." "I will." I doubted if he would be asleep. Or me. But something else had been bothering me. "Jf time corns for the Tricorn to shape for Earth -- and Clark jsh't back -- what do you do then?" He didn't answer; the lines in his face just got deeper. I knew what the Awful Decision was -- and I knew how he had decided it. But I had a little Awful Decision of my own to make...and I had talked to Saint Podkayne about it for quite a while and had decided that Poddy had to break a SaintPodkayne oath. Maybe this sounds silly but it isn't silly to me. Never in my life had I broken one...and never in my life will I be utterly sure about Poddy again. So I told Uncle all about the smuggled bomb. Somewhat to my surprise he took it seriously -- when I had about persuaded myself that Clark had been pulling my leg just for exercise. Smuggling -- oh, sure, I understand that every ship in space has smuggling. But not a bomb. Just something valuable enough that it was worthwhile to bribe a boy to get it aboard, .and probably Clark had been paid off again when he passed it along -- B ut Uncle wanted me to describe exactly the person I had seen talking to Clark at Deimos Station. "Uncle, I can't! I barely glanced at him. A man. Not short, not tall, not especially fat or skinny, not dressed in any way that made me remember. I'm not sure I looked at his face at all. Uh, yes, I did but I can't call up any picture of it." "Could it have been one of the passengers?" I thought hard about that. "No. Or I would have noticed his face later when it was still fresh in my mind. Mmm...I'm almost certain he didn't queue up with us. I think he headed for the exit, the one that takes you back to the shuttle ship." "That is likely," he agreed. "Certain -- if it was a bomb. And not just a product of Clark's remarkable imagination." "But, Uncle Tom, why would it be a bomb?" And he didn't answer and I already knew why. Why would anybody blow up the Tricorn and kill everybody in her, babies and all? Not for insurance like you sometimes find in adventure stories; Lloyd's won't insure a ship for enough to show a profit on that sort of crazy stunt -- or at least that's the way it was explained to me in my high school economics class. Why, then? To keep the ship from getting to Venus. But the T ricorn had been to Venus tens and tens of times. To keep somebody in the ship from getting to Venus (or perhaps to Luna) that trip. Who? Not Podkayne Fries. I wasn't important to anybody but me. For the nett couple of hours Uncle Tom and I searched that hilton suite. We didn't find anything, nor did I expect us to. If there was a bomb (which I still didn't fully believe) and if Clark had indeed brought it off the ship and hidden it there (which seemed unlikely, with all of the Tricorn at one end and all of the city at the other end to choose from), nevertheless he had had days and days in which to make it look like anything from a vase of flowers to a -- an anything. We searched Clark's room last on the theory that it was the least likely place. Or, rather, we started to search it together and Uncle had to finish it. Pawing through Clark's things got to be too much for me and Uncle sent me back into the salon to lie down. I was all cried out by the time he gave up. I even had a suggestion to make. "Maybe if we sent for a Geiger counter?" Uncle shook his head and sat down. "We aren't looking for a bomb, honey." "We aren't?" "No. If we found it, it would simply confirm that Clark had told you the truth, and I'm already using that as least hypothesis. Because -- Well, because I know more about this than the short outline I gave to you...and I know just how deadly serious this is to some people, how far they might go. Politics is neither a game nor a bad joke the way some IF people think it is. War itself is merely an extension of politics...so I don't find anything surprising about a bomb in politics. Bombs have been used in politics hundreds and even thousands of times in the past. No, we aren't looking for a bomb, we are looking for a man -- a man you saw for a few seconds once. And probably not even for that man but for somebody that man might lead us back to. Probably somebody inside the President's office, somebody he trusts." "Oh, gosh, I wish I had really looked at him!" "Don't fret about it, hon. You didn't know and there was no reason to look. But you can bet that Clark knows what he looks like. If Clark -- I mean, when Clark comes back, in time we will have him search the I.D. files at Marsopolis. And all the visa photographs for the past ten years, if necessary. The man will be found. And through him the person the President has been trusting who should not be trusted." Uncle Tom suddenly looked all Maori and very savage. "And when we do, I may take care of it personally." Then he smiled and added, "But right now Poddy is going to bed. You're up way past your bedtime, even with all the dancing and latesleeping you've been doing lately." "Uh...what time is it in Marsopolis?" He looked at his other watch. "Twenty-seventeen. You weren't thinking of phoning your parents? I hope not." "Oh, nol I won't say a word to them unless -- until Clark is back. And maybe not then. But if it's only twenty-seventeen, it's not late at all, real time, and I don't want to go to bed. Not until you do." "I may not go to bed." "I don't care. I want to sit with you." He blinked at me, then said very gently. "All right. Poddy. Nobody ever grows up without spending at least one night of years." We just sat then for quite a while, with nothing to say that had not already been said and would just hurt to say over again. At last I said, "UnkaTom? Tell me the Poddy Story." "At your age?" "Please." I crawled up on his knees. "I want to sit in your lap once more and hear it. I need to." "All right," he said, and put his arm around me. " 'Once upon a time, long, long ago when the world was young, in a specially favored city there lived a little girl named Poddy. All day long she was busy like a ticking clock. Tick tick tick went her heels, tick tick tick went her knitting needles, and, most especially, tick tick tick went her busy little mind. Her hair was the color of butter blossoms in the spring when the ice leaves the canals, her eyes were the changing blue of sunshine playing down through the spring floods, her nose had not yet made up its mind what it would be, and her mouth was shaped like a question mark. She greeted the world as an unopened present and there was no ldness in her anywhere. '"One day Poddy -- I stopped him. "But Fm not young any longer...and I don't think the world was every young!" "Here's my hanky," he said. "Blow your nose. I never did tell you the end of it, Poddy; you always fell asleep. It ends with a miracle." "A truly miracle?" "Yes. This is the end. Poddy grew up and had another Poddy. And then the world was young again." "Is that all?" "That's all there ever is. But it's enough." I guess Uncle Tom put me to bed, for I woke up with just my shoes off and very rumpled. He was gone but he had left a note saying that I could reach him, if I needed to, on Mr. Chairman's private code. I didn't have any excuse to bother him and didn't want to face anyone, so I chased Maria and Maria out and ate breakfast in bed. Ate quite a lot, too, I must admit. The body goes on ticking anyhow. Then I dug out my journal for the first time since landing. I don't mean I haven't been keeping it; I mean I've been talking it instead of writing it. The libra in our suite has a recorder built into its desk and I discovered how easy it was to keep a diary that way. Well, I had really found out before that, because Mr. Clancy let me use the recorder they use to keep th' log on. The onlvortcoming of the recorder in the library was that Clark might drop in most any time. But the first day I went shopping I found the most darling little minirecorder at Venus Macy -- only ten-fifty and it just fits in the palm of your hand; you can talk into it without even being noticed if you want to and I just couldn't resist it. I've been carrying it in my purse ever since. But now I wanted to look way back in my journal, the early written part, and see if I had anything that might remind me of what That Man had looked like. It read: Pod, If you find this at all, it's time you read it. Because I'm using #-hr ink and I expect to lift this out of here and you'll never see it. Girdie is in trouble and I'm going to rescue her. I haven't told anybody because this is one job that is all mine and I don't want you or anybody horning in on it. However, a smart gambler hedges his bets, if he can. If I'm gone long enough for you to read this, it's time to get hold of Uncle Tom and have him get hold of Chairman Cunha. All I can tell you is that there is a news stand right at South Gate. You buy a copy of the Daily Merchant diser and ask if they carry Everlites. Then you say, "Better give me two -- it's quite dark where I'm going." But don't you do this, I don't want it muffed up. V If this turns out dry, you can have my rock collection. Count your change. Better use your fingers. Clark I got all blurry. That last line -- I know a holographic last will and testament when I see one, even though I had never seen one before. Then I straightened up and counted ten seconds backwards including the rude word at the end that discharges nervous tension, for I knew this was no time to be blurry and weak. So I called Uncle Tom right away, as I agreed perfectly with Clark on one point: I wasn't going to try to emulate Space Ranger Stalwart, Man of Steel, the way Clark evidently had. I was going to get all the help I could getl With both Clark and Girdie in some sort of pinch I would have welcomed two regiments of Patrol Marines and the entire Martian Legion. So I called Mr. Chairman's private code -- and it didn't answer; it simply referred me to another code. This one answered all right,...but with a recording. Uncle Tom. And this time all he said was to repeat something he had said in the note, that he expected to be busy all day and that I was not to leave the suite under any circumstances whatever until he got back. Only this time he added that I was not to let anyone into the suite, either, not even a repairman, not even a servant except those who were already there, like Maria and Maria. W hen the recording started to play back for the third time, I switched off. Then I called Mr. Chairman the public way, through the Corporation offices. A dry deal that was! By pointing out that I was Miss Fries, niece of Senator Fries, Mars Republic, I did get as far as his secretary, or maybe his secretary's secretary. "Mr. Cunha cannot be reached. I am veree soiree. Miss Fries." So I demanded that she locate Uncle Tom. "I do not have that information. I am veree soiree. Miss Fries." Then I demanded to be patched in to Dexter. "Mr. Dexter is on an inspection trip for Mr. Cunha. I am veree soiree." She either couldn't, or wouldn't, tell me when Dexter was expected back -- and wouldn't, or couldn't, find some way for me to call him. Which I just plain didn't believe, because if I owned a planetwide corporation there would be some way to phone every mine, every ranch, every factory, every air boat the company owned. All the time. And I don't even suspect that Mr. Chairman is less smart about how to run such a lash-up than I am. I told her so, using the colorful rhetoric of sand rats and canal men. I mean I really got mad and used idioms I hadn't known I even remembered. I guess Uncle is right. Scratch my Nordic skin and a savage is just underneath. I wanted to pick my teeth at her, only she wouldn't have understood it But would you believe it? I might as well have been cussing out a sand gator; it had net affect on her at all. She just repeated, "I'm-veree-sorreeMiss-Fries," and I hung up. Do you suppose Mr. Chairman uses an androidal Tik-Tok as his phone monitor? I wouldn't put it past him. Any live woman should have shown some reaction at the some of the implausibilities I showered on her, even if she didn't understand most of the words. (Well, I don't understand some of them myself. But they are not compliments.) I thought about phoning Daddy. I knew he would accept the charges, even if he had to mortgage his salary. But Mars was eleven minutes away; it said so, right on a dial of the phone. And the relays via Hermes Station and Luna City were even worse. With twenty-two minutes between each remark it would take me most of the day just to tell him what was wrong, even though they don't charge you for the waiting time. But I still might have called except -- well, what could Daddy do, away? All it would do would be to turn his last six hairs white. It wasn't until then that I steadied down enough to realize that there had been something else amiss about that note written into my journal -- besides Clark's childish swashbuckling. Girdie! It was true that I had not seen Girdie for a couple of days; she was on a shift that caused her to zig while I zagged. Newly hired dealers don't get the best shifts. But I had indeed talked to her at a time when Clark was probably already gone even though at the time I had simply assumed that he had gotten up early for some inscrutable reason of his own, rather than not coming home at all that night. But Uncle Tom had talked to her just before we had gone to the Cunha cottage the day before, asked her specifically if she had seen Clark -- and she hadn't. Not as recently as we had. So she wasn't missing. So it was Clark -- I didn't have any trouble reaching Dom Pedro -- not the Dom Pedro I met the night I met Dexter but the Dom Pedro of that shift. However, by now all the Dom Pedros know who Poddy Fries is; she's the girl that is seen with Mr. Dexter. He told me at once that Girdie had gone off shift half an hour earlier and I should try her hilton. Unless -- he stopped and made some inquiries; somebody seemed to think that Girdie had gone shopping. As may be. I already knew that she was not at the little hilton she had moved to from the stylish (and expensive) Tannhauser. A message I had already recorded there was guaranteed to fetch a call back in seconds, if and when. That ended it. There was no one left for me to turn to, nothing at all left for me to do, save wait in the n suite until Uncle returned, as he had ordered me to do. So I grabbed my purse and a coat and left. And got all of three meters outside the door of the suite. A tall, wide, muscular character got in my way. When I tried to duck around him, he said, "Now, now. Miss Fries. Your uncle left orders." I scurried the other way and fonnd that he was awfully quick on his feet, for such a big man. So there I was, arrested! Shoved back into our own suite and held in durance vile. You know, I don't think Uncle entirely trusts me. I went back to my room and closed the door and thought about it. The room was still not made up and still cluttered with dirty dishes because, despite the language barrier, I have made clear to Maria and Maria that Miss Fries becomes quite vexed if anybody disturbs my room until I signal that I no longer want privacy by leaving the door open. The clumsy, two-decker, roUaround table that had fetched my breakfast was still by my bed, looking like a plundered city. I took everything off the lower shelf, stowed it here and there in my bath, covered the stuff on top of the table with the extra cloth used to shield the tender eyes of cash customers from the sight of dirty dishes. Then I grabbed the house phone and told them I wanted my breakfast dishes cleared away fast MO I'm not very big. I mean, you can fit forty-nine mass kilos only one hundred fifty-seven centimeters long into a fairly small space if you scrunch a litde. That lower shelf was hard but not too cramped. It had some ketchup on it I hadn't noticed. Uncle's orders (or perhaps Mr. Cunha's) were being followed meticulously, however. Ordinarily a pantry boy comes to remove the food wagon; this time the two Marias took it out the service entrance and as far as the service lift. In the course of it I learned something interesting but not really surprising. Maria said something in Portuguese; the other Maria answered her in Ortho as glib as mine: "She's probably soaking in the tub, the lazy brat." I made a note not to remember her on birthdays and at Christmas. Somebody wheeled me off the lift many levels down and shoved me into a corner. I waited a few moments, then crawled out. A man in a well-spotted apron was looking astonished. I said, "Obrigado!" handed him a deuce note and walked out the service entrance with my nose in the air. Two minutes later I was in a taxi. I've been catching up on this account while the taxi scoots to South Gate in order not to chew my nails back to the elbows. I must admit that I feel good even though nervous. Action is better than waiting. No amount of bad can stonker me but not knowing drives me nuts. This spool is almost finished, so IF I think ril change spools and mail this one back to Uncle at South Gate. I should have left a note, I know -- but this is better than a note. I hope. W ell, I can't complain about not having seen fairies. They are every bit as cute as they are supposed to be -- but I don't care greatly if I never see another one. Throwing myself bravely into the fray against fearful odds, by sheer audacity I overcame -- It wasn't that way at all. I fubbed. Completely. So here I am, some nowhere place out in the bush, in a room with no windows and only one door. That door isn't much use to me, as there is a fairy perched over it. She's a cute little thing and the green part of her fur looks exactly like a ballet tutu. She doesn't look quite like a miniature human with wings. But they do say that the longer you stay here the more human they look. Her eyes slant up, like a cat, and she has a very pretty built-in smile. I call her "Titania" because I can't pronounce her real name. She speaks a few words of Ortho, not much, because those little skulls are only about twice the brain capacity of a cat's skull. Actually she's an idiot studying to be a moron and not studying very hard. Most of the time she just stays perched and nurses her baby -- the size of a kitten and twice as cute. I call it "Ariel" although I'm not sure of its sex. I'm not dead sure of Titania's sex. They say that both males and females do this nursing thing, which is not quite nursing but serves the same purpose; they are not mammalians. Ariel hasn't learned to fly yet, but Titania is teaching it -- tosses it into the air and it sort of flops and glides to the floor and then stays there, mewing piteously until she comes to get it and flies back to her perch. I'm spending most of my time (a) thinking, (b) bringing this journal up to date, (c) trying to persuade Titania to let me hold Ariel (making some progress; she now lets me pick it up and hand it to her -- the baby isn't a bit afraid of me) and (d) thinking which seems to be a futile occupation. Because I can go anywhere in the room and do anything as long as I stay a couple of meters away from that door. Gues why? Give up? Because fairies have very sharp teeth and claws; they're carnivorous. I have a nasty bite and two deep scratches on my left arm to prove it -- red and tender and don't seem to want to heal. If I get close to that door, she dives on me. Completely friendly otherwise. Nor do I have anything physically to complain about. Often enough a native comes in with a tray of really quite good food. But I never watch him come in and I never watch him take it away -- because Venusians look entirely too human to start with and the more you look at them the worse it is for your stomach. No doubt you have seen pictures but pictures don't give you the smell and that drooling loose mouth, nor the impression that this thing has been dead a long time and is now animated by obscene arts. I call him "Pinhead" and to him that is a compliment. No doubt as to its being a "him" either. It's enough to make a girl enter a nunnery. I eat the food because I feel sure Pinhead didn't cook it. I think I know who does. She would be a good cook. L et me back up a little. I told the news vendor: "Better give me two -- it's quite dark where I'm going." He hesitated and looked at me and I repeated it. So pretty soon I am in another air car and headed out over the bush. Ever make a wide, sweeping turn in smog? That did it. I haven't the slightest idea where I am, save that it is somewhere within two hours flight of Venusberg and that there is a small colony of fairies near. by. I saw them flying shortly before we landed and was so terribly interested that I didn't really get a good look at the spot before the car stopped and the door opened. Not that It would have done any good. I got out and the car lifted at once, trussing me up with its fan ,... and here was an open door to a house and a tamiliar voice was saying, "Poddy! Come in, dear, come ini" And I was suddenly so relieved that I threw myself into her arms and hugged her and she hugged me back. It was Mrs. Grew, fat and friendly as ever. And looked around and here was Clark, just sitting -- and he looked at me and said, "Stupid," and looked away. And then I saw Uncle sitting in another chair and was about to throw myself at him with wild shouts of glee -- when Mrs. Grew's arms were suddenly awfully strong and she said soothingly, "No, no, dear, not quite so fast," and held me until somebody (Pinhead, it was) did something to the back of my neck. Then I had a big comfortable chair all to myself and didn't want it because I couldn't move from my neck down. I felt all right, aside from some odd tingles, but I couldn't stir. Uncle looked like Mr. Lincoln grieving over the deaths at Waterloo. He didn't say anything. Mrs. Grew said cheerfully, "Well, now we've got the whole family together, Feel a bit more like discussing things rationally. Senator?" Uncle shook his head a half a centimeter. She said, "Oh, come now! We do want you to attend the conference. We simply want you to attend it in the right frame of mind. If we can't agree -- well, it's hardly possible to let any of you be found again. Isn't that obvious? And that would be such a shame. Especially for the children." Uncle said, "Pass the nemlock." #Q# IF "Oh, Fm sure you don't mean that." "He certainly does mean it!" Clark said shrilly. "You illegal obscenity! I delete all over your censored!" -- and I knew he was really worked up, because Clark is contemptuous of vulgar idioms; he says they denote an inferior mind. Mrs. Grew looked at Clark placidly, even tenderly. Then she called in Pinhead again. "Take him out and keep him awake till he dies." Pinhead picked Clark up and carried him out. But Clark had the last word. "And besides that," he yelled, "yoM cheat at solitaire! Fve watched you!" F or a split second Mrs. Grew looked really annoyed. Then she put her face back into its usual kindly expression and said to Uncle, "Now that I have both of the kids I think I can afford to expend one of them. Especially as you are quite fond of Poddy. Too fond of her, some people would say. Psychiatrists, I mean." I mulled that over... and decided that if I ever got out of this mess, I would make a rug out of her hide and give it to Uncle. Uncle ignored it. Presently there was a most dreadful racket, metal on resounding metal. Mrs. Grew smiled. "It's crude but it works. It is what usei to be a water heater when this was a ranch. Unfortunately it isn't quite big enough either to sit down or stand up in -- but a boy that rude really shouldn't expect comfort. The noise comes from pounding on the outside of it with a club." She smiled and then looked thoughtful. "I don't see how we can talk things over with such a racket going on. I think I should have the tank moved farther away. Or perhaps our talk would march even more quickly if I had it brought nearer, so that you could hear the sounds he makes inside the tank, too. What do you think. Senator?" I cut in. "Mrs. Grew!" "Yes, dear? Poddy, I'm sorry but I'm really quite busy. Later we'll have a nice cup of tea together. Now, Senator -- " "Mrs. Grew, you don't understand my Uncle Tom at all! You'll never get anything out of him this way." She considered it. "I think you exaggerate, dear. Wishful thinking." "No, no, no! There isn't any way you could possibly get my Uncle Tom to do anything against Mars. But if you hurt Clark -- or me -- you'll just make him more adamant. Oh, he loves me and he loves Clark, too. But if you try to budge him by hurting either one of us, you're just wasting your time!" I was talking rapidly and just as sincerely as I know how. I seemed to hear Clark's screams. Not likely, I guess, not over that infernal clanging. But once when he was a baby he fell into a wastebasket... and screamed something dreadful before I rescued him. I was hearing that again. Mrs. Grew smiled pleasantly. "Poddy dear, you are only a girl and your head has been filled with nonsense. The Senator is going to do just what I want him to do." "Not if you kill Clark, he won't!' "You keep quiet, dear. Do keep quiet and let me explain, or I shall have to slap you a few times to keep you quiet. Poddy, I am not going to kill your brother." "But you said -- "  Quiet! That native who took your brother away didn't understand what I said. He knows only trade Ortho, a few words, never a full sentence I said what I did for the benefit of your brother...so that, when I do have him fetched back in, he'll be grovelling, begging your uncle to do anything I want him to do." S hq smiled warmly. "One piece of nonsense you've apparently been taught is that patriotism, or something silly like that, will overpower a man's own self interest. Believe me, I have no slightest fear that an old political hack like your uncle wiU give any real weight to such a silly abstraction. What does worry him is his own political ruin if he does what I want him to do What he is going to do. Eh, Senator?" "Madam," Uncle Tom answered tightly, "I see no point in bandying words with you." "Nor do I. Nor shall we. But you can listen while I explain it to Poddy. Dear, your uncle is a stubborn man and he won't accomplish his own political downfaD lightly. I need a string to make him dance -- and in you I have that string. I'm sure." 'Tm not!" "Want a slap? Or would you rather be gagged? I like you, dear; don't force me to be forceful. In yow, I said. Not your brother. Oh, no doubt your uncle goes through the solemn farce of treating his niece and his nephew just alike -- Christmas presents and birthday presents and such like pretenses. But it is obvious that no one could love your brother... not even his own mother, I venture to say. But the Senator does love you. Rather more than he wants anyone to suspect. So now I am hurting your brother a little -- oh, just a smidgen, at worst he'll be deaf -- to let your uncle see what will happen to you. Unless he is a good boy and speaks his piece just the way I tell him to." She looked thoughtfully at Uncle. "Senator, I can't decide which of two methods might work the better on you. You see, I want to keep you reminded -- after you agree to cooperate -- that you did agree. Sometimes a politician doesn't stay bought. After I turn you loose would it be better for me to send your nephew along with you, to keep you reminded? Or would it be better to keep him here and work on him just a little each day -- with his sister watching? So that she would have a clear idea of what happens to her... if you try any tricks at Luna City. What's your opinion, sir?" "Madam, the question does not arise." "Really, Senator?" "Because I will not be at Luna City unless both children are with me. Unhurt." Mrs. Grew chuckled. "Campaign IF promises, Senator. I'll reason with you later. But now -- " she glanced at an antique watch pinned to her gross bosom -- "I think I had better put a stop to that dreadful racket. It's giving me a headache. And I doubt if your nephew can hear it any longer, save possibly through his bones." She got up and left, moving with surprising agility and grace for a woman her age and mass. Suddenly the noise stopped. I t was such a surprise that I would have jumped if anything below my neck could jump. Which it couldn't Uncle was looking at me. "Poddy, Poddy," he said softly. I said, "Uncle, don't you give in a He said, "Poddy, I cant give in to her. Not at all. You understand that? Don't you?" "I certainly do! But look -- you could fake it. Tell her anything. Get loose yourself and take Clark along, as she suggested. Then you can rescue me. I'll hold out. You'll see!" He looked terribly old. "Poddy... Poddy darling... I'm very much afraid... that this is the end. Be brave, dear." "Uh, I haven't had very much practice at that. But I'll try to be." I pinched myself, mentally, to see if I was scared -- and I wasn't, not really. Somehow I couldn't be scared with Uncle there, even though he was helpless just then. "Uncle, what is it she wants? Is she some kind of a fanatic?" He didn't answer because we both heard Mrs. Grew's jolly, belly-deep laugh. " 'Fanatic!' " she repeated, came over and tweaked my cheek. "Poddy dear. I'm not any sort of fanatic and I don't really care any more about politics than your uncle does. But I learned many years ago when I was just a girl -- and quite attractive, too, dear, much more so than you will ever be -- that a girl's best friend is cash. No, dear. I'm a paid professional and a good one." She went on briskly, "Senator, I think the boy is deaf but I can't be sure. He's passed out now. We'll discuss it later, it's time for my nap. Perhaps we had all better rest a little." And she called in Pinhead and I was carried into the room I am in now. When he picked me up, I really was truly aghast! -- and found that I could move my arms and legs just a little bit -- pins and needles you wouldn't believe! -- and I struggled feebly. Did me no good, I was dumped in here anyhow. After a while the drug wore off and I felt almost normal, though shaky. Shortly there after I discovered that Titania is a very good watchdog indeed. I haven't tried to reach that door since; my arm and shoulder are quite sore and getting stiff. I nstead I inspected the room. Not much in it. A bed with a mattress but no bed-clothes, not that you need any in this climate. A sort of a table suspended from one wall and a chair fastened to the floor by #S it. Glow tubes around the upper comers of the room. I checked all these things at once after learning the hard way that Titania was not just a cutie with gauzy wings. It was quite clear that Mrs. Grew, or whoever had outfitted that room, had no intention of leaving anything in it that could be used as a weapon, against Titania or anybody. And I no longer had even my coat and purse. I particularly regretted losing my purse, because I always carry a number of useful things in it. A nail file, for example. If I had had even my nail file I might have considered taking on that bloodthirsty little fairy. But I didn't waste time thinking about it; my purse was where I had dropped it when I was drugged. I did find one thing very interesting. This room had been used to prison Clark before I landed in it. One of his two bags was in it -- and I suppose I should have missed it from his room the night before, only I got upset and left Uncle to finish the search. The bag held a very odd collection for a knight errant venturing forth to rescue a damsel in distress: some clothing -- three Tshirts and two pairs of shorts, a spare pair of shoes -- a slide rule, and three comic books. If I had fotind a flame gun or supplies of mysterious chemicals, I would  not have been surprised -- more Clarkish. I suppose, when you get right down to it, for all his brilliance Clark is just a little boy, I worried a bit then about the possibility -- or probability -- that he was deaf. Then I quit thinking about it. If true, I couldn't help it. He would miss his ears less than anything, since he hardly ever listens anyhow. So I lay down on the bed and read his comic books. I am not a comicbook addict but there were quite entertaining, especially as the heroes were always getting out of predicaments much worse than mine. After a while I fell asleep and had heroic dreams. I was awakened by "breakfast (more like dinner but quite good). Pinhead took the tray away, and light plastic dishes and a plastic spoon offered little in the way of lethal weapons. However I was delighted to find that he had fetched my purse! Delighted for all of ten seconds, that is. No nail file. No pen knife. Not a darn thing in it more deadly than lipstick and hanky. Mrs. Grew hadn't disturbed my money nor my tiny minirecorder but she had taken everything that could conceivably do any good (harm). So I gritted my teeth and ate and then brought this useless iournal up to date. That's about all I've done since -- just sleep and eat and make friends with Ariel. She reminds me of Duncan. Oh, not alike really -- but all babies are sort of alike, don't you think? I had dozed off from the lack of anything better to do when I was awakened. "Poddy, dear." IP "Ohl HeUo, Mrs. Grew.' "Now, now, no quick moves," she said chidingly. I wasn't about to make any quick moves; she had a gun pointed at my belly button. I'm very fond of it, it's the only one I have. "Now be a good girl and turn over and cross your wrists behind you." I did so and in a moment she had them tied, quite firmly. Then she looped the line around my neck and had me on a leash -- and if I struggled, all I accomplished was choking myself. So I didn't struggle. Oh, I'm sure there was at least a moment when she didn't have that gun pointed at me and my wrists were not yet tied. One of those comic-book heroes would have snatched that golden instant, rendered her helpless, tied her with her own rope. Regrettably, none of those heroes was named "Poddy Fries." My education has encompassed cooking, sewing, quite a lot of math and history and science, and such useful tidbits as freehand drawing and how to dip candles and make soap. But handto-hand combat I have learned sketchily if at all from occasional border clashes with Clark. I know that Mother feels that this is a lack (she is skilled in both karate and kill-quick, and can shoot as well as Daddy does) but Daddy has put off sending me to classes. I've gathered the impression that he doesn't really want his baby girl to know such things. I vote with Mother, it's a lack. There must have been a split second when I could have lashed out with a heel, caught Mrs. Grew in her sar plexus, then broken her neck while she was still helpless -- and run down the Jolly Roger and run up the Union Jack, just like in Treasure Island. Oppernockity tunes but once -- and I wasn't in tune with it. Instead I was led away like a puppy on a string. Titania eyed us as we went through the door, but Mrs. Grew clucked at her and she settled back on her perch and cuddled Ariel to her. She had me walk in front of her down a hallway, through that living room where I had last seen Uncle Tom and Clark, out another door and a passage and into a large room --  -- and I gasped and suppressed a scream! Mrs. Grew said cheerfully, "Take a good look, dear. He's your next roommate." Half the room was closed off with heavy steel bars, like a cage in a zoo. Inside was -- well, it was Pinhead, that's what it was, though it took me a long moment of fright to realize it. You may have gathered that I do not consider Pinhead handsome. Well, dear, he was Apollo Belvedere before, compared with the red-eyed maniacal horror he had become. Then I was lying on the floor and Mrs. Grew was giving me smelling salts. Yes, sir, Captain Podkayne Fries the Famous Explorer had keeled over like a silly girl. All right, go ahead and laugh; I don't mind. You haven't ever been shoved into a room with a thing like that and had it introduced to you as "your new roommate." Mrs. Grew was chuckling. "Feel better, dear?" "You're not going to put me in there with him!" "What? Oh,, no no, that was just my little joke. I'm sure your uncle will never make it necessary actually to do it." She looked at Pinhead thoughtfully -- and he was straining one arm through the bars, trying again and again to reach us. "He's long-time happy-dust addict that's barely enough to make him tempery. If I ever do have to put you -- or your brother -- in with him, I've promised him at least fifteen. I need your advice, dear. You see. I'm about to send your uncle back to Venusberg so that he can catch his ship. Now which do you think would work best with your uncle? To put your brother in there right now, while your uncle watches? He's watching this, you know. He saw you faint, and that couldn't have been better if you had practiced. Or to wait and -- " "My uncle is watching us?" "Yes, of course. Or to -- " "Oh, do keep quiet, Poddy. He can see you but he can't hear you and he can't possibly help you. Hmm. You're such a silly billy that I don't think I want your advice. She walked me back to my cell. That was only hours ago; it merely seems like years. But it is long enough. Long enough for Poddy to lose her nerve. Look, I don't have to tell this, nobody knows but me. But I've been truthful all through these memoirs and I'll be truthful now. I have made up my mind that as soon as I get a chance to talk with Uncle I will beg him, plead with him, to do anything to keep me from being locked up with a happy-dusted native. I'm not proud of it. Fm not sure I'll ever be proud of Poddy again. But there it is and you can rub my nose in it. I've come up against something that frightens me so much I've cracked. I feel a little better about it to have admitted it baldly. I sort of hope that, when the time comes, I won't whimper and I won't plead. But #.  .just...don't...know ir A nd then sombody was shoved in with me and it was Clark! I jumped up off the bed and threw my arms around him and lifted him right off his feet and was blubbering over him. "Oh, Clarkie! Brother, brother, are you hurt? What did they do to you? Speak to me! Are you deaf?" Right in my ear he said, "Cut out the sloppy stuff, Pod." So I knew he wasn't too badly hurt, he sounded just like Clark. I repeated, more quietly, "Are you deaf?" He barely whispered in my ear, "No, but she thinks I am, so we'll go on letting her think so." He untangled himself from me, took a quick look in his bag, then rapidly and very thoroughly went over every bit of the room -- giving Titania just wide enough berth to keep her from diving on him. Then he came back, shoved his face close to mine and said, "Poddy, can you read lips?" "No. Why?" "The hell you can't, you just did." Well, it wasn't quite true. Clark had barely whispered -- and I did find that I was "hearing" him as much from watching his mouth as I was from truly hearing him. This is a very funny thing, but Clark says that almost everybody reads lips more than they think they do...and he had noticed it and practiced it and can really read lips -- only he never told anybody because sometimes it is most useful. He had me talk so low that I couldn't hear it myself and he didn't talk much louder. He told me, "Look, Pod, I don't know that Old Lady Grew -- " (he didn't say "Lady") -- "has this room wired. I can't find any changes in it since she had me in it before. But there are at least four places and maybe more where a mike could be. So we keep quiet -- because it stands to reason she put us together to hear what we have to say to each other. So talk out loud all you want to...but just static. How scared you are and how dreadful it is that I can't hear anything and such like noise." So we did and I moaned and groaned and wept over my poor baby brother. And he complained that he couldn't hear a word I was saying and kept asking me to find a pencil and write what I was saying -- and in between we really did talk, important talk that Clark didn't want her to hear. I wanted to know why he wasn't deaf. Had he actually been in that tank? "Oh, sure," he told me, "but I wasn't nearly as limp by then as she thought I was, either. I had some paper in my pocket and I chewed ft up into pulp and corked my ears." He looked pained. "A twenty-spot note. Most expensive eaiplugs anybody ever had. I'll bet. Then I wrapped my shirt around my head and ignored it. But stow that and listen." He was even more vague about how he had managed to get himself trapped. "Okay, okay, so I got hoaxed. You and Uncle don't look so smart, either. And anyhow, you're responsible." "I am not either responsible!" I whispered indignantly. "If you're not responsible, then you're irresponsible, which is worse. Logic. But forget it, we've got important things to do now. Look, Pod, we're going to crush out of here." "How?" I glanced up at Titania. She was nursing Ariel but she never took her eyes off us. C lark followed my glance. "I'll take care of that insect when the time comes. Forget it. It has to be soon and it has to be at night." "Why at night?" I was thinking that this smoggy paradise was bad enough when you could see a little, but in pitch darkness -- "Pod, let that cut in your face heal; you're making a draft. It's got to be while Jojo is locked up." Jojo?' " "That set of muscles she has working for her. The native." "Oh, you mean 'Pinhead.'" "Pinhead, Jojo, Albert Einstein. The happy-duster. He serves supper, then he washes the dishes, then she locks him up and gives him his night's ration of dust. Then he stays locked up until he sleeps it off, because she's as scared of him when he's, high as anybody else is. So we make our try for it while he is caged. And maybe she'll be asleep, too. With luck the bloke who drives her sky wagon will be away, too: he doesn't always sleep here. But we can't count on it and it has got to be before the Tricorn shapes for Luna. When is that?" "Twelve seventeen on the eighth, ship Greenwich." "Which is?" "Local? Nine-sixteen Venusberg, Wednesday the twentieth." "Check," he answered. "On both." "But why?" "Shut up." He had taken his slide rule from his bag and was setting it. For the conversion, I assumed, so I asked, "Do you want to know the Venus second for this Terran year?" I was rather proud to have it on the tip of my tongue, like a proper pilot; Mr. Clancy's time hadn't been entirely wasted even though I had never let him get cuddly. "Nope. I know it." Clark reset the rule, read it and announced, "We both remember both figures the same way and the conversion checks. So check timepieces." We both looked at our wrists. "Mark!" We agreed, within a few seconds, but that wasn't what I noticed: I was looking at the date hand. "ClarkI Today's the nineteenth!" "Maybe you thought it was Christmas," he said sourly. "And don't yip like that again. "But that's tomorrow!" (I did make it soundless.) "Worse. It's less than seventeen hours from now...and we can't make a move until that brute is locked up. We get just one chance, no more." "Or Uncle Tom doesn't get to the Conference." no II Clark shrugged. "Maybe so, maybe not. Whether he decides to go -- or sticks around and tries to find us, I couldn't care less." Clark was being very talkative, for Clark. But at best he grudges words and I didn't understand him. "What do you me#Ui? 'If he sticks around'?" Apparently Clark thought he had told me, or that I already knew -- but he hadn't and I didn't. Uncle Tom was already gone. I felt suddenly lost and forlorn. "Clark, are you sure?" "Sure, I'm sure. She darn well saw to it that I saw him go. Jojo loaded him in like a sack of meal and I saw the wagon take off into the smog. Uncle Tom is in Venusberg by now." I suddenly felt much better. "Then he'll rescue usi" Clark looked bored. "Pod, don't be stupid squared." "But he will! Uncle Tom...and Mr. Chairman...and Dexter -- " He cut me off. "Oh, for Pete's sake, Poddy! Analyze it. You're Uncle Tom, you're in Venusberg, you've got all the help possible. How do you find this place?" "Uh... I stopped. "Uh -- " I said again. Then I closed my mouth and left it closed. " 'Uh, " he agreed: "Exactly 'uh.' You don't find it. Oh, in eight or ten years with a few thousand people doing nothing but searching you could find it by elimination. Fat lot of good that would do. Get this through your little head. Sis: nobody is going to rescue us, nobody can possibly help us. We either break out of here tonight, or we've had it." "Why tonight? Oh, tonight's all right with me. But if we don't get a chance tonight -- " "Then at nine-sixteen tomorrow," he interrupted, "we're dead.", "Huh? Why?" "Pod, put yourself in old Gruesome's place. Tomorrow the Tricorn leaves. Figure it both ways: Uncle Tom leaves in it, or Uncle Tom won't leave. Okay, you've got his niece and nephew. What do you do with them? Be logical about it. Her sort of logic." I tried. I really tried. But maybe I've been brought up wrong for that sort of logic; I can't seem to visualor she had become a nuisance to me. But I could see that Clark was right that far: after ship's departure tomorrow we will simply be nuisances to Mrs. Grew. If Uncle Tom doesn't leave, we are most special nuisances -- and if he does leave and she is counting on his worry about us to keep him in line at Luna City (it wouldn't, of course, but that is what she is counting on anyway), in that case every day she risks the possibility that we might escape and get word to Uncle. All right, maybe I can't imagine just plain murder; it's outside my experience. But suppose both Clark and I came down with green pox and died. That would certainly be convenient for Mrs. Grew -- now, wouldn't it? "I scan it," I agreed. 'Good," he said. "I'll teach you a thing or four yet, Pod. Either we make it tonight...or just past nine tomorrow she chills us both...and she chills Jojo, too, and sets fire to the place." "Why Jojo? I mean 'Pinhead.' " "That's the real tipoff, Pod. The happy-duster. This is Venus...and yet she let us see that she was supplying dust to a duster. She won't leave any witnesses." "Uncle Tom is a witness, too." "What if he is? She's counting on his keeping his lip zipped until the conference is over. By then she's back on Earth and has lost herself around here and risk being caught? Pod, she's going to wait here only long enough to find out whether or not Uncle Tom catches the Tricorn, Then she'll carry out either Plan A or Plan B -- but both plans cancel us out. Get that through your fuzzy head." I shivered. "All right. I've got it." He grinned. "But we don't wait. We execute our own plan -- my plan -- first." He looked unbearably smug and added, "You fubbed when you came out here without doing any of the things I told you to... and Uncle Tom fubbed just about as badly, thinking he could make sr straight payoff...but I came out here prepared!" "You did? With what? Your slide rule? Or maybe those comic books?" Clark said, "Pod, you know I never read comic books. They were just protective coloration." (And this is true, so far as I know. I thought I had uncovered his Secret Vice.) "Then what?" I demanded. "Just compose your soul in patience, Sister Dear. All in good time." He moved his bag back of the bed, then added. "Move around here where you can watch down the hallway. If Lady Macbeth shows up, I'm reading comic books." I did as he told me to but asked him one more question -- on another subject, as quizzing Clark when he doesn't want to answer is as futile as slicing water. "Clark? You figure Mrs. Grew is part of the gang that 'imuggled the bomb?" He blinked and looked stupid. "What bomb?" "The one they paid you to sneak aboard the Tricorn, of course! 'What bomb' indeed!" "Oh, that. Golly, Poddy, you believe everything you're told. When you get to Terra, don't let anybody sell you the Pyramids. They're not for sale." He went on worldng and I smothered my annoyance. Presently he said, "She couldn't possibly know anything about any bombs in the Tricorn, or she wouldn't have been a passenger in it herself." Clark can always make me feel stupid. This was so obvious (after he pointed it out) that I refrained from comment. "How do you figure it, then?" "Well, she could have been hired by the same people and not have IP known that they were just using her as a reserve." My mind raced and another answer came up. 'In which case there could be still a third plot to get Uncle Tom between here and Luna!" "Could be. Certainly a lot of people are taking an interest in him. But I figure it for two groups. One group -- almost certainly from Mars -- doesn't want Uncle Tom to get there at all. Another group -- from Earth probably, at least old gruesome actually did come from Earth -- wants him to be there but wants him to sing their song. Otherwise when she had Uncle Tom, she would never have turned him loose. She would just have had Jojo shove him into a soft spot and wait for the bubbles to stop coming up." Clark dug out something and looked at it. "Pod, repeat this back and don't make a sound. You are exactly twenty-three kilometers from South Gate and almost due south of it -- south seven degrees west." I repeated it. "How do you know? He held up a small black object about as big as two packs of cigarettes. "Inertial tracker, infantry model. You can buy them anywhere here. Anybody who ever goes out into the bush carries one." He handed it to me. I looked at it with interest. I had never soon one that small. Sand rats use them, of course, but they use bigger, more accurate ones mounted in their sand buggies -- and, anyhow, on Mars you can always see either the stars or the Sun. Not like this gloomy place! I even knew how it worked, more or less, because inertial astrogation is a commonplace for space ships and guided missiles -- vector integration of accelerations and times. But whereas the Tricornes inertial tracker is supposed to be good for one part in a couldn't be read closer than one in a thousand. But it improved our chances at least a thousand to one! "Clark! Did Uncle Tom have one of these? 'Cause if he did -- " He shook his head. "If he did, he never got a chance to read it. I figure they gassed him at once; he was limp when they lifted him out of the air wagon. And I never had a chance to tell him where this dump is because this has been my first chance to look at mine. Now put it in your purse; you're going to use it to get back to Venusberg." "Uh...it'll be bulky in my purse, it'll show. You better hide it wherever you had it. You won't lose me, I'm going to hang onto your hand every step of the way." "No." "Why not?" "In the first place I'm not going to drag this bag with me and that's where it was hidden, I built a false bottom into it. In the second place we aren't going back together." "What? Why not? We certainly are! Clark, I'm responsible for you." "That's a matter of opinion. Your opinion. Look, Poddy, I'm going to get you out of this silly mess. But don't try to use your head, it leaks. Just your memory. Listen to what I say and then do it exactly the way I tell you to -- and you'll be all right." "But -- " "Do you have a plan to get us out?" "No." "Then shut up. You start pulling your Big Sister act now and you'll get us both killed." I shut up. And I must confess that his plan made considerable sense. According to Clark there is nobody in this house but us, Mrs. Grew, Titania and Ariel, Pinhead and sometimes her driver. I certainly haven't seen nor heard any evidence of anybody else and I suppose that Mrs. Grew has been doing it with an absolute minimum of witnesses. I know I would if I were (God forbid!) ever engaged in anything like this. I've never seen the driver's face and neither has Clark -- on purpose. I'm sure. But Clark says that the driver sometimes stays overnight, so we muste prepared to cope with him. Okay, assume that we cope. As soon as we are out of the house we split up. I go east, he goes west, for a couple of kilometers, in straight lines as near as bogs and swamps permit, Which may be not very. Then we both turn north. Clark says that the ring road around the city is just three kilometers north of us; he drew me a sketch from memory of a map he had studied before he set out to "rescue Girdie." At the ring road I go right, he goes left -- and we each make use of the first hitch-hike transportation, ranch-house phone or whatever, to reach Uncle Tom and or Chairman Cunha and get lots of reinforcements in a hurry! T he idea of splitting up is the most elementary of tactics, to make sure that at least one of us gets through and gefs help. Mrs. Grew is so fat she couldn't chase anybody on a race track, much less a swamp. We plan to do it when she doesn't dare unlock Pinhead for fear of her own life. If we are chased, it will probably be the driver -- and he can't chase two directions at once. Maybe there are other natives she can call on for help. Even so, splitting up doubles our chances. So I get the inertial tracker because Clark doesn't think I can maneuver in the bush without one, even if I wait for it to get light. He's probably right. But he claims that he can steer well enough to find that road using just his watch, a wet finger for the breeze and polarized spectacles -- which, so help me, he has with him. I shouldn't have sneered at his comic books. He actually did come prepared, quite a lot of ways. If they hadn't gassed him while he was still locked in the passenger compartment of Mrs. Grew's air buggy, I think he could have given them a very busy, bad time. A flame gun in his bag, a Remington pistol hidden on his person, knives, stun bombs -- IF even a second inertial tracker, openly in the bag along with his clothes and comic books and slide rule. I asked him why? -- and he put his best superior look. "If anything went wrong and they grabbed me, they would expect me to have one. So I had one -- and it hadn't even been started...poor little tenderfoot who doesn't even know enough to switch the thing on when he leaves his base position. Old Gruesome got a fine chuckle out of that." He sneered. "She thinks I'm half-witted and I've helped the idea along." So they did the same thing with his bag that they did with my purse -- cleaned everything out of it that looked even faintly useful for mayhem and murder, let him keep what was left. And most of what was left was concealed by a false bottom so beautifully faked that the manufacturer wouldn't have noticed it. Except, possibly, for the weight. I asked Clark about that. He shrugged. "Calculated risk," he said. "If you don't bet. you can't win. Jojo carried it in here still packed and she searched it in here -- and didn't pick it up afterwards; she had both arms full of junk I didn't mind her confiscating." (And suppose she had picked it up and noticed? Well. Brother would still have had his brain and his hands -- and I think he could take a sewing machine apart and put it back together as a piece of artillery. Clark is a trial to me, but I have great confidence in him.) I'm going to get some sleep now -- or try to -- as Pinhead has just fetched in our supper and we have a busy time ahead of us, later. But first I'm going to back-track this tape and copy it. I have one fresh spool left in my purse. I'm goin to give the copy to Clark to give to Uncle, just in case. Just in case Pod turns out to be bubbles in a swamp, I mean. But I'm not worried about that; it's a much nicer prospect than being Pinhead's roommate. In fact I'm not worried about anything. Clark has the situation well in hand. B ut he warned me very strongly about one thing: "Tell them to get here well before nine-sixteen... or don't bother to come at all." "Why?" I wanted to know. "Just do it." "Clark, you know perfectly well that two grown men won't pay any attention unless I can give them a sound reason for it." He blinked. "All right. There is a very sound reason. A half a kiloton bomb isn't very much...but it still isn't healthy to be around when it goes off. Unless they can get in here and disarm it before that time -- up she goes!" He has it. I've seen it. Snugly fitted into that false bottom. That same three kilograms of excess mass I couldn't account for at Deimos. Clark showed me the timing mechanism and how the shaped charges were nestled around it to produce the implosion squeeze. But he did not show me how to disarm it. I ran into his blankest, most stubborn wall. He expects to escape, yes. And he expects to come back here with plenty of help and in plenty of time and disarm the thing. But he is utterly convinced that Mrs. Grew intends to kill us -- and if anything goes wrong and we don't break out of here, or die trying, or anything...well, he intends to take her with us. I told him it was wrong, I said that he mustn't take the law in his own hands. "What law?" he said. "There isn't any law here. And you aren't being logical, Pod. Anything that is right for a group to do is right for one person to do." That one was too slippery for me to answer so I tried simply pleading with him and he got sore. "Maybe you would rather be in the cage with Jojo?" "Well...no." "Then shut up about it. Look, Pod, I planned all this out when she had me in that tank, trying to beat my ears in, make me deaf. I kept my sanity by ignoring what was being done to me and concentrating on when and how I would blow her to bits." I wondered if he had indeed kept his sanity, but I kept my doubts to myself and shut up. Besides I'm not sure that he's wrong; it may be that I'm just squeamish about bloodshed. "Anything that is moral for a group to do is moral for one person to do." There must be a flaw in that, since I've always been taught that it is wrong to take the law in your own hands. But I didnt find the flaw and it sounds axiomatic, self evident. Switch it around. If something is wrong for one person to do, can it possibly be made right by having a lot of people (a government) agree to do it together? Even unanimously? If a thing is wrong, it is wrong -- and vox populi can't change it. Just the same, I'm not sure I can nap with an atom bomb under my bed. I guess I had better finish this. This is Clark speaking. My sister got right to sleep after I rehearsed her in what we were going to do. I stretched out on the floor but didn't go right to sleep. I'm a worrier, she isn't. I reviewed my plans, trying to make them tighter. Then I slept. I've got one of those built-in alarm clocks and I woke just when I planned to, an hour before dawn. Any later and there would be too much chance that Jojo might be loose, any earlier and there would be too much time in the dark. The Venus bush is chancy even when you can see well. I didn't want Poddy to step into something sticky, or step on something that would turn and bite her leg off. Nor me, either. But we had to risk the bush, or stay and let old Gruesome kill us at her convenience. The first was a sporting chance. The latter was a dead certainty, even though I had a terrible time convincing Poddy that Mrs. Grew would kill us. Poddy's greatest weakness -- the really soft if place in her head, she's not too stupid otherwise -- is her almost total inability to grasp that some people are as bad as they are. Evil. Poddy never has understood evil. Naughtiness is about as far as her imagination reaches. But I understand evil, I can get right inside the skull of a person like Mrs. Grew. Perhaps you infer from this that I am evil, or partly so. All right, want to make something of it? Whatever  am, I knew Mrs. Grew was evil before we ever left the Tricorn... when Poddy (and even Girdie!) thought the slob was just too darling for words. x I don't trust a person who laughs when there is nothing to laugh about. Or is good-natured no matter what happens. If it's that perfect, it's an act, a phony. So I watched her... and cheating at solitaire wasn't the only give-away. So between the bush and Mrs. Grew, Unless the air car was there and we could swipe it. This would be a mixed blessing, as it would mean two of them to cope with, them armed and us not. (I don't count a bomb as an arm, you can't point it at a person's head.) Before I woke Poddy I took care of that alate pseudo-simian, that "fairy." Vicious little beast. I didn't have a gun. But I didn't really want one at that point; they understand about guns and are hard to hit, they'll dive on you at once. Instead I had shoe trees in my spare shoes, elastic bands around my spare clothes and more elastic bands in my pockets, and several two-centimeter steel ball bearings. Shift two wing nuts, and the long parts of the shoe trees become a steel fork. Add elastic bands and you have a sling shot. And don't laugh at a sling shot; many a sand rat has kept himself fed with only a sling shot. They are silent and you usually get your ammo back. I aimed almost three times as high as I would at home, to allow for the local gravity, and got it right on the sternum, knocked it off its perch -- crushed the skull with my heel and gave it an extra twist for the nasty bite on Poddy's arm. The young one started to whine, so I pushed the carcass over in the corner, somewhat out of sight, and put the cub on it. It shut up. I took care of all this before I woke Poddy because I knew she had sentimental fancies about these "fairies" and I didn't want her jittering and maybe grabbing my elbow. As it was -- clean and fast. Poddy was still snoring, so I slipped off my shoes and made a fast reconnoitre. Not so good. Our local witch was already up and reaching for her broom. In a few minutes she would be unlocking Jojo if she hadn't already. I didn't have a chance to see if the sky car was outside; I did well not to get caught. I hurried back and woke Poddy. "Pod!" I whispered. "You awake? "Yes." "Wide awake? You've got to do your act, right now. Make it loud and make it good." "Check." "Help me up on the perch. Can your sore arm take it?" She nodded, slid quickly off the bed and took position at the door, hands ready. I grabbed her hands, bounced to her shoulders, steadied, and she grabbed my calves as I let go her hands -- and then I was up on the perch, over the door. I waved her on. Poddy went running out the door, screaming, "Mrs. Grew! Mrs, Grew! Help, help! My brother!" She did make it good. And came running back in almost at once with Mrs. Grew puffing after her. I landed on Gruesome's shoulders, knocking her to the floor and knocking her gun out of her hand. I twisted and snapped her neck before she could catch her breath. Pod was right on the ball, I have to give her credit. She had that gun before it stopped sliding. Then she held It, looking dazed. I took it carefully from her. "Grab your purse. We go, right now! Stick close behind me." Jojo was loose. I had cut it too fine. He was in the living room, looking, I guess, to see what the noise was about. I shot him. Then I looked for the air car while keeping the gun ready for the driver. No sign of either one -- and I didn't know whether to groan or cheer. I was all keyed up to shoot him but maybe he would have shot me first. But a car would have been mighty welcome compared with heading into the bush. I almost changed my plan at that point and maybe I should have. Kept together, I mean, and headed straight north for the ring road. It was the gun that decided me. Poddy could protect herself with it -- and I would just be darn .careful what I stepped on or in. I handed it to her and told her to move slowly and carefully until there was more light -- but get going! She was wobbling the gun around. "But, Brother, I've never shot anybody!" "Well, you can if you have to." "I guess so." "Nothing to it. Just point it at 'em and press the button. Better use both hands. And don't shoot unless you really need to." "AU right." I smacked her behind. "Now get going. See you later." And I got going. I looked behind once, but she was already vanished in the smog. I put a little distance between me and the house. And I got lost. T hat's all. I needed that tracker but I had figured I could get along without it and Pod had to have it. I got hopelessly lost. There wasn't breeze enough for me to tell anything by wetting my finger and that polarized light trick for finding the IP Sun is harder than you would think. Hours after I should have reached the ring road I was still skirting boggy places and open water and trying to keep from being somebody's lunch. And suddenly there was the most dazzling light possible and I went down flat and stayed there with my eyes buried in my arm and started to count. I wasn't hurt at all. The blast wave covered me with mud and the noise was pretty rough but I was well outside the real trouble. Maybe half an hour later I was picked up by a cop car. Certainly I should have disarmed that bomb. I had intended to, if everything went well; it was just meant to be a "Samson in the Temple" stunt if things turned out dry. A last resort. Maybe I should have stopped to disarm it as soon as I broke old Gruesome's neck -- and maybe Jojo would have caught both of us if I had, and him still with a happy-dust hangover. Anyhow I didn't, and then I was very busy shooting Jojo and deciding what to do and telling Poddy how to use that gun and getting her started. I didn't think about the bomb until I was several hundred meters from the house -- and I certainly didn't want to go back then, even if I could have found it again in the smog, which is doubtful. But apparently Poddy did just that. Went back to the house. I mean. She was found later that day, about a kilometer from the house, outside the circle of total destruction -- but caught by the blast. With a live baby fairy in her arms. Her body had protected it; it doesn't appear to have been hurt at all. That's why I think she went hack to the house. I don't know that this baby fairy is the one she called "Ariel." It could have been one that she picked up in the bush. But that doesn't seem at all likely; a wild one would have clawed her and its parents would have torn her to pieces. I think she intended to save that baby fairy all along and decided not to mention it to me. It is just the kind of sentimental stunt that Poddy would pull. She knew I was going to have to kill the adult -- and she never said a word against that; Pod could always be sensible when absolutely necessary. Then in the excitement of breaking out she forgot to grab it, just as I forgot to disarm the bomb after we no longer needed it. So she went back for it. And lost the inertial tracker, somehow. At least it wasn't found on her or near her. Between the gun and her purse and the baby fairy and the tracker she must have dropped it in the bog. Must be. because she had plenty of time to go back and still get far away from the house. She should have been ten kilometers away by then, so she must have lost the tracker fairly soon and walked in a circle. I told Uncle Tom all about it and was ready to tell the Corporation people, Mr. Cunha and so forth, and take my medicine. But Uncle told me to keep my mouth shut. He agreed that I had fubbed it, mighty dry indeed -- but so had he -- and so had everybody. He was gentle with me. I wish he had hit me. I'm sorry about Poddy. She gave me some trouble from time to time, with her bossy ways and her illogical ideas. But just the same Fm sorry. I wish I knew how to cry. Her little recorder was still in her purse and part of the tape could be read. Doesn't mean much, though. She doesn't tell what she did, she was babbling, sort of: " -- very dark where I'm going. No man is an island, complete in himself. Remember that, Clarkie. Oh, Fm sorry I fubbed it but remember that; it's important. They all have to be cuddl sometimes. My shoulder -- Saint Podkayne! Saint Podkayne, are you listening? U n k a T o m. Mother, Daddy -- is anybody listening? Do listen, please, because this is important. I love -- " It cuts off there. So we don't know whom she loved. Everybody, maybe. I 'm alone here, now. Mr. Cunha made them hold the Tricorn until it was certain whether Poddy would die orget well, then Uncle Tom left and left me behind -- alone, that is, except for doctors, and nurses, and Dexter Cunha hanging around all the time, and a whole platoon of guards. I heard part of what Uncle Tom told Dad about it. "Nonsense, sir! I am not dodging my own load of guilt. It will be with me always. Nor can I wait here until you arrive and you know it and you know why -- and both children will be safer in Mr. Cunha's hands and not close to me...and you know that, too! But I have a message for you, sir, one that you should pass on to your wife. Just thi: people who will not take the trouWe to raise children should not have them. You with your nose always in a book, your wife gallivanting off God knows where -- between you, your daughter was almost killed. No credit to either of you that she wasn't. Just blind luck. You should tell your wife sir, that building bridges and space stations and such gadgets is all very well...but that a woman has more important work to do. I tried to suggest this to you years ago...and was told to mind my own business. Now I am saying it. Your daughter will get well, no thanks to either of you. But I have my doubts about Clark. With him it may be too late. God may give you a second chance if you hurry. Ending transmission!" I faded into the woodwork then and didn't get caught. But what did Uncle Tom mean by that? -- trying to scare Dad about me? I wasn't hurt at all and he knows it. I just got a load of mud on me, not even a bum...whereas Poddy still looks like a corpse. I don't see what he was driving at. IF IP  Shofi Story I am the exeeutloner of the law, terrible in my majesty. The doomed felon is -- myselfl I always shook when I can # out of the Arena, but tLis time the tension wrapped my stomach in painful knots and salty perspiration stung my neck where I had shaved only a little over an hour earlier. And despite the heavy knot in my stomach. I felt strangely empty. I had never been able to sort out my reactions to an Execution. The atmosphere of careful boredom, the strictly business-as-usual air failed to duU my senses as it did for the others. I could always taste the ozone In the air, mixed with the taste of fear -- whether mine, or that of the Condemned, I never knew. My nostrils always gave an involuntary twitch at the confined odors and I felt an almost claustrophic fear at being packed into the Arena with the other nine hundred ninety-nine Citizens on Execution Duty. I had been expecting my notice for several months before it finally came. I hadn't served Execution Duty for nearly two years. Usually it had figured out to every fourteen Iff months or so on rotation, so I'd been ready for it. A little apprehensive -- I always am -- but ready. At #:# in the morning, still only half awake (I'd purposely slept until the last minute), vaguely trying to remember the dream I'd had, I waited in front of the Arena for the ordeal to begin. The dream had been something about a knife, an operation. But I couldn't remember whether I'd been the doctor or the patient. Our times of arrival had been staggered in our notices, so that a long queue wouldn't tie up traffic, but as usual the checkers were slow, and we were backed up a bit. I didn't like waiting. Somehow I've always felt more exposed on the streets, although the brain-scanners must be more plentiful in an Arena than almost anywhere else. It's only logical that they should be. The scanners are set up to detect unusual patterns of stress in our brain waves as we pass close to them, and thus to pick out as quickly as possible those with incipient or developing neuroses or psychoses -- the potential deviates. And where else would such an aberration be as likely to come out as in the Arena? I had moved to the front of the short line. I flashed my notification of duty to the checker, and was waved on in. I found my proper seat on the aisle in the "T" section. It was a relief to sink into its plush depths and look the Arena over. Once this had been a first-run Broadway theater -- first a place where great plays were shown, and then later the more degenerate motion pictures. Those had been times of vicarious escape from reality -- times when the populace ruled, and yet the masses hid their eyes from the world. Many things had changed since then, with the coming of regulated sanity and the achievement of world peace. Gone now were the black arts of forgetfulness, those media which practiced the enticement of the Citizen into irresponsible escape. Now this crowded theater was only a reminder. And a place of execution for those who would have sought escape here. P erhaps thirty people were sitting on the floor of the Arena, where once there had been a stage. They sat quietly in chairs not so different from mine, strapped for the moment into a kind of passive conformity. I looked at them with interest. Strangeness has as much attraction as the familiar at times. As usual, most of them were young -- from about ten to the early twenties. But at whatever age, they were rebels. They were potential enemies of society. Criminals. Probably some of them hadn't yet realized it. But they were on the verge of anti-social insanity, and the brain-scanners had singled them out. They were so young... How long does it take a boy to become neurotic, psychotic, dangerous? A flurry of movement at the gates caught my eye. Apparently at least one of them was a full-fledged RebIF th He struggled furiously, and the three proctors were having an awkward time carrying him into the Arena without hurting him. Then, as they moved into the floodlights, I saw with a faint shock that it was a girl. She was dressed in man's clothing, but betrayed by her neurotic and unsanitary long hair. Long, blonde hair. For a moment I forgot where I was, and allowed myself to revel in this nearly forbidden sight. The soft waves fell alfway down her neck, disarrayed now. The floodlights shined on it, a strangely gentle mockery of sunlight. Something within me stirred, and I almost remembered... Then they were strapping her into one of the chairs, carefully pulling the soft leather straps with their attached metal electrodes around her, pinioning her. One set joined her arms to the armrests, another her legs to the specially devised footrests. Her tunic was opened, and a third set was passed around her chest, the metal plate fastened just under her left breast. And then she was alone. I stared at her, drawn at first to her hair, and then, as my vision focused across the distance, to her eyes. Strange eyes; light blue irises, surrounded by a ring of dark blue, and flecked with gold. They were shining. She had been crying. Her eyes seemed to melt, like a pool of clear water growing deeper; I could almost see into them, into the darkness beneath. I was no longer aware of the chair in which I sat... only of her, alone before me, so close. Her eyes widened for just an instant when she recognized me. Bobr Roscbudr '# knew you'd be here. I knew 'lts been a long time . , .# think I was trying to forget." Dont" she said. "Don't ever forget." S un drenched me, and I was rocked back into time. "Hey, you pushed me!" I shouted at her. "Yes," said a faint voice, and then, "I'm sorry," the little golden-haired girl said. I sat up. Mother was going to be mad at me again, I knew. I wiped the seat of my pants with my hand, and then stared at the muddy hand with interest. "Look," I said to her, and showed her my hand. When she stepped forward to look closely at it, I pushed it at her, and smeared mud onto her face. Then I laughed...    My laughter faded, blending with hers... and then... and then we were no longer standing separately in the sun. It was a dark night, the air fresh and cool to my skin, and the leaves of the trees which stretched over us rustled with a faint wind. I laughed again, a soft girlish sound that brought discomfort to the boy's face before me. "Your mother says. Your father says. Don't you ever say anything for yourself, Bob?" "Look, Rosalie, I'm sorry. Maybe I just don't think the way you do. My father says sex at our age is just another escape from reality. You've got to face yourself as an adult first. He -- " "Your father is a biggw nincompoop than you are!" I shouted at him. "I thought you said you loved me. I thought you had some feelings buried under that so-called rational mind of yours! Or does your father say you're too young to love somebody?" He tried to say something, but I was right. He pressed his lips together and looked away. I was almost enjoying it now; with deliberate coolness I buttoned up my tunic, feeling the soft fibers on my skin. "How long does it take to love somebody?" I said, but my voice was beginning to tremble. I turned away from his still figure in the night, and began the slow walk back along the path to the house. Tears stung my eyes, and spilled onto my cheeks; I started to run through the dark. I slammed the door when I ran in, and went directly to my room. At one eiid of it was a small studio, where an easel was lit coldly by a fluorescent light. Almost blindly I began beating my fists on the stiBwet canvas, blurring and then ripping the nearly finished portrait of a young man. I was crying quietly when the low, calm voice stopped me on the street. "Just a moment. Miss." I felt the sudden skip in my heart which signaled danger, and when I turned I saw the light green uniform of a jM-octor in the vague street light. My eyes were still blurred with tears. I couldn't make out his face. "I'm sorry, but I'll have to ask you a few questions." Shielding my face from the light, I tried to make my voice calm. I hoped my homesick tears were hidden, that my cheeks wouldn't glisten in the light. I wanted very badly for him not to see I had been crying. "Yes?" "I'll have to know why you're out on the streets at this time of the morning," the proctor said. "There's a curfew, you know. Unless you can show cause..." Oh God; I had completely forgotten the city's curfew! "I -- I'm sorry, Officer. I'm new to the city and I didn't realize..." "You're transient? Where are you staying?" "The Statler Dormitory for Women," I answered meekly. "And why are you out at this hour, so far from the dorm? That's down near #th Street, almost thirty blocks south." "I know. I couldn't sleep -- " His eyes narrowed at that; had I made a mistake? I plunged on: " -- and I wanted to see Central Park. I didn't realize there was any harm... "I guess not this time. Miss, but IF you'd better get back to your dorm. Take this pass." He scribbled a few words on a pad and then detached a slip of green paper for me. "You can take a train down to #th Street. Now." "I'd just as soon walk, sir." He stared at me for a moment and then I turned and started for the nearest subway entrance. It had been horrible, those first few days in the Dorm. I'd never dreamed that a sane society could be so... not cruel, but unthinking. Back home in Woodstock we were all supposed to be sane too, but neither Father nor Mother had ever forced any rigid rules on me. They had let me roam the woods, scuffing the dry leaves in autumn, drinking water from the creeks in my cupped hands. They hadn't objected when I was gone for hours. Usually I was just sitting on a log and staring into the sky, and what harm was there in that? They had encouraged my painting. "It's supposed to be a sign of escapism," Dad said, "but there are a lot worse ways of escaping." He made an easel for me, and I used tubes of house-paint tint-colors and stretched canvas and burlap over frames Dad made. He even gave me a book of reproductions of the Old Masters that he'd saved. Life in Woodstock had been pleasant for me, I realized now, even if it had often seemed lonely. I couldn't have told the proctor that Fd really woken up from a dream about Bob before I'd gone out walking. Fd seen Bob's face so clearly, standing in the night, unable to say anything to me. Suddenly it had seemed that my voice was stopped too, and Fd woken up gasping... I boarded a local train, not caring that an express would be much faster, and began the trip back to my cubicle at the Statler Dorm. If only they hadn't taken my parents...    I had succeeded in setting up a makeshift easel in my room at the Dorm, and was working on a painting, wearing some of Dad's old clothes, when the proctors broke in. One of them pointed a small indicator at me, glanced at it and nodded. "She's the one. Instability arid escapism. And look at the kind of clothes she wears." "What are you doing?" I whispered. This was how they'd taken my parents! "You're under detention as a criminal against society. Miss," one of the proctors said. "We're all sorry." Another one stepped forward and held out a hand to me as one might a child. "Come along now." Nor I backed away from them, and when they trapped me in the comer I kicked and screamed at them. "Leave me alone, leave me alone! You're killers!" One of them grabbed me and held me around my waist, my arms pinned to my sides. "We're not killers. Miss," he said, and his voice was incredibly calm, "We have nothing to do with it Its I twisted free and struck at him, tearing skin from his face with my nails. "W event my parents enough? One of them pointed another device at me, and I blacked out. W hen I came to, I was being carried by three proctors through a door and down a hall. My head was fuzzy and throbbing. I caught a glimpse of a stenciled sign in the corridor, lettered nearly over an arrow pointing in the direction we were going. The words leaped out at me: Execution Arena Floor. One of the proctors saw that I was conscious and looked down at me pleasantly. "No sense struggling now," he said. "It'll be over soon." I stared back at him for a moment, not understanding. But then the kindness in his face became clear. He pitied me! The prostors were carrying me as gently as possible, as though I were a dog with a broken leg. I felt incredibly sad, and so tired that I was sure I must suddenly weigh twice as much. But they carried me through the door and out onto the floor of the Arena, and there were a thousand people up in the dark waiting for me. There were floodlights on the chairs where the others of the Condemned were strapped. Thev sat quietly, dully, as though they were the Executioners and the people above were waiting for them to press the buttons. But it was insane! How could they take it so calmly were they dead already? Did they want to die? Or was I really insane? Where was the sanity in this Arena? I couldn't lie still while they carried me to that chair. I was frightened. I was terrified! They were all so silent, so calm, so kindly. As though nothing at all were happening -- nothing at all! I struggled, trying to fight my way free. I kicked and screamed; I had to make some noise in that black silence. But they held ,me, and strapped me into the chair. And still there was no sound in the Arena. I felt a shock, a tension, and I looked up. There, in the audience, sitting before his little panel with the blue light and the red Executioner's button, was a young man staring at me. I could feel his stare, like a cool hand touching me. It drew me up, into the dimness... I felt my eyes widen with recognition. Bobr I said His reply sounded deep inside my mind 'Hello, Rosebud. l knew youd be here I said, and then I drew him close to me. lts been a long time Dont ever forget, I said, and opened myself to him at last. T he lights in the Arena dimmed, rose, dimmed again. The first signal I pressed against the straps, but they were firm and unmoving. Yet  -- we -- leaned forward, and watched the panel with its blue light. Our stomach was knotted like tight leather cords. The blue light flashed. I reached out a hand to the small red button. The straps bit into our flesh. The panel was dim, ghostly beneath the glaring lights from the dark above. A thousand hands touched a thousand red buttons. One of them was the first to touch the button, the first to complete the circuit. No one knew who he was. No one even knew if every button was connected, but someone touched a button and somewhere the circuit was completed. Shock! Pain jerked our body rigid! We screamed; our skin blistered as hair singed and fell away. And there was a greater shock, a pain somewhere else, as our images cleaved and I fell away from her. I reached out my hand to her, and almost felt her touch... but my hand was on the button, and she was slumped in her chair on the floor of the Arena. I jerked my hand away from the button as though it were hot electricity. My whole body was moist with perspiration. I stared about me, suddenly and deeply frightened. Which of us had screamed? I'd felt it surging up in me, felt it tearing at my throat, bursting from my mouth -- but next to me the others were unconcernedly waiting for me to rise from my seat so that we could file in an orderly fashion from our places in the Arena. They had noticed nothing. When I stood up my legs were trembling. I could still feel where the leather straps had bitten into them. I stepped carefully up the stairs and went out into the morning sunshine. Though the floodlights had been bright in the Arena, still the sunlight hurt my eyes. I paused at the door, and looked at my ringwatch. It was nine-thirty. Only half an hour had passed. How long does it take to destroy a few spoiled lives? It was over. I forced my breathing into a more normal rate and stepped onto the sidewalk. Don't think about it, I told myself. After all, it had been years earlier that I had really lost her... I had almost made it to the corner when I felt the tap on my shoulder, began to turn, saw the greensleeved arm extending toward me a familiar black indicator, and heard the proctor say: "This is the one. Definite case: schizoid condition, latent telepath." "We're all sorry," said another of them. And they led me away to face it  In the February Galaxy --  i Still on Sale!  w The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: Having received and read the January issue, I thought that I should write in and let you know how well I liked it. The idea of adding a background tint to the illos certainly is an improvement, and having the titles printed in red or blue makes them stand out much better. Hope you can keep it up... Changing the printers is probably the greatest improvement that you will ever make. It used to be a challenge to try to read some of the horribly misprinted words. The more Virgil Mnlay illos you get, the better HI like it. I think hes one of the all-time greats at #-f illustration. You could get rid of Schelling, though. As an sf artist he isn't helping to advance the cause of science fiction any. His work is very poor. Since P. Pohl took over If it has been on the upswing. Now if it only had book reviews... Could the new sf mag mentioned on page #I be a companion to ? The two titles are very similar -- Worlds of If and Worlds of To morrow. If it is, it should be a success. Paul Brague Box # Eldrec, New York  We like Finlay, too -- as witness this issue! Editor,    Dear Editor: Just picked up the January issue of If, and was I surprised! A truly tremendous improvement. Color interiors, smaller yet easier-to-read tyre-face, an extra staple in the binding to make for better handling, anc for authors: Heinlein, Simak, Sturgeon, even Pohl! If may well hit the top. And what's more, you announce a new sf magazine. Worlds of To morrow, the first in some five years, plup the Galaxy Magdbooh series (possibly a quasi-revivification of Galaxy Novels,), You may count on me to shell out the purchase price when they arrive at the newsstand. Suggestions: enlarge lettercol eject Relief and run longer actionadventure ' yarns. Douglas Taylor # East #th Ave. Hutchinson, Kansas   Dear Editor: In your November issue you requesting the name and author of a story. It is The Most Dangerous Game by Richard Connell. It was published by Alfred Hitchcock in a paperback entitled # More They Wouldn't Let Me Do on TV. Pat Lamey # #th Street Havre, Montana    .  . this story appears in Adventures in American Literature a high-school textbook published by Harcourt, Brace. The author would not benefit from it being made into a movie as he died in #. Allen Wick # East Center Street Manchester, Connecticut   ... in #I Years' Entertain ment: The Great Detective Stories #-#... Gerard Giannattasio # Park Boulevard Massapequa Park, N. N... in the anthology Great Tales of Terror and the Supernatural... Rosemary Allen # East Rosalie Street Philadelphia #, Penna.   . original publication by Brandt  Brandt... Garleton C. Arnes Route No. #, Box #I Oakton, Virginia  And thanks for identifying the story too to: John C. Henderson, Charles Scott, Jeff Renner, Scott Lawson... and they're still coming in! Editor.    Dear Editor: Instead of columns, we're getting articles now on Theodore Sturgeon. The articles are preferred, by this reader but if Mr. Sturgeon doesn't write stories and you, editor, don't print them, the sf world will be in a sorry state. Bill R. Wolfenbarger # East Gladden Farmington, New Mexico    Dear Editor; #. Please don't bring back the book review column. #. Let's face it, the art in and on the November issue was pretty #. Is it possible for you to get seme of the all time great? (like Asimov and Ray Bradbury) to write for you? #I South Chester Road Swarthmore, Pennsylvania  What do you say, Isaac  Ray? Is it possible or ien't it? We're hoping it is... and meanwhile we've nailed down Hal Clement, Lester del Rey, Algis Budrys, Poul Anderson, Robert Silverberg, Fritz Leibei and a healthy quorum of other all-time favorites to grace near-future issues. Also Sturgeon's witty and informative features. Alfle onr one-an-issne "first story" discoveries, like this issue's Donald F. Daley. All in all, we like the looks of the upcoming issues of ! Editor if you want to keep your copy of Galaxy intact for permanent possession! Why mutilate a good thing? But, by the same token... if you're devotee enough to want to keep your copies in mint condition, you ought to subscribe. You really ought to. For one thing, you get your copies earlier. For another, you're sure you'll get them! Sometimes newsstands run outthe mail never does. (And you can just put your name and address on a plain sheet of paper and mail It to us, at the address below. We'll know what you mean... provided you enclose your check!) In the past few years Galaxy has published the finest stories by the finest writers in the field Bester, Heinlein, Pohl, Asimov, Sturgeon, Leiber and nearly everyone else. In the next few years it will go right on, with stories that are just as good... or better. Don't miss any issue of Galaxy. You can make sure you won't. Just subcribe today. (lf, on the other hand, your habit is to read them once and go on to something newpleasefeel free to use the coupon! It's for your convenience, not ours.) . Enter my subscription for the Now Giant #-page Galaxy .  , foreign postage) (U. S. Edition only) for: # Issues  # # Issues  # # Issues  # Two Complete Science Fiction Novels by First time in paperbound book form Watch for the first big Issue Thunder And Many More A Corrpftnnri'f'tf" Tn#'""n # South Drarborn St., Dept. #-# Please send me, free oi cost or obligation, your illustrated booklet "Law Training for Leadership." Name Age ,... Address County City  Zone State as a way to increased earnings your previous schooling -- you can multiply your opportunities for rapid promotion, big income and prestige through LaSalle Law Training at home. A knowledge of Law is regarded today as indispensable equipment in every activity of business. The greatly increased role of government in business, the many new problems of Law involving taxes, insurance, contracts, liability, employment, and much more -- all require the legally-trained executive who can make day-to-day decisions effectively. That is why leading corporations seek out such men for key positions and reward them with top salaries. You can master Law easily and enjoyably at home -- at remarkably low cost -- under the supervision of LaSalle's distinguished Law faculty. You work with actual legal cases, acquiring real experience. Upon completion of your training, you are awarded a Bachelor of Liiws degree if qualified. The famed X LaSalle Law Library of # volumes is , given to you as part of your course. iW Send  century LaSalle has V V jjjj. been an acknowledged leader in busi'OR ness training, with more than # Free students. Send for the free booklet ' Book' Training for Leadership" and see ' how LaSalle can help you move up  rapidly in your career. Address: # So. Dearborn St... Chicago #, #. Stop msting time in a dead-end job! Enjoy the big rewards offered the Law-trained man in business WORLDS OF  by If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers-challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohl, Davidson, Simak, Bloch, Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Send me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Name Address Use coupon or order by letter if you wish ;X v A w mworlds of Vol. #, Number # science fiction Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher David Perton, Production Manager Rose M. Bianchini, Art Director All New Stories T  j.  r mmmmmmmmmmmm   m -- # Cover by John Pederson, Jr. from Turning Point IF published bi-monthly by Digest Productions Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class P ostage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright y Digest Productions Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental.  t   . -- Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, JN. X. IF  Editorial A conversation-jockey on a nighttime Philadelphia radio show said (we can't quote exactly) that though he used to be a science-fiction reader, he no longer bothers with it, because all the things which used to excite his imagination have become today's fact. Notice that "all". Mr. Russell Kirk, in his good collection of spooky tales called The Surly Sullen Bell, includes a dissertation on the Gothick tale, in which he ays (and we quote) : "... stories of the supernatural have been supplanted by 'science fiction'. Though the talent of H. G. Wells did in that genre nearly everything worth undertaking, a flood of 'scientific' and 'futuristic' fantasies continues to deluge America. With few exceptions, these writings are banal and meaningless... Having demolished, to their own satisfaction, the whole edifice of religious learning, abruptly and unconsciously they experience the need for belief in something not mundane; and so, defying their own inductive and mechanistic premises, they take up the cause of Martians and Jovians." Time Magazine, which we will not quote, deposes and says that sf is suffering from a played-out vein of literary ore, and that it will have to rest until the average man on the street becomes a little more familiar with science's more remote and subIF be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings . write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe YA.L Scribe Y.A.L. San Jose, California Please send me th efrte book, The Mastery j of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. Name Address. City I i -- i i WTe Rosicrucians tie discoveries, which, Time opines, are not able to support good story telling. Alfie Bester gives us, in FSF, another and apparently final bleat in his oft-heard, captain-hates-the-sea speech; sf doesn't live up to its responsibilities and he wants no part of it. These are some, but not all, of the facets of opposition to sf. To us, the Philly night-jar was simply saying that he does not read enough sf to know what he's talking about; Time t which never seems to have understood the field, reveals at last that it thinks science fiction is and should be about known science, thereby eliminating all the speculation which is really what sf is for, and as for Alfie... well, may he find in some preferred field the inspiration which gave us The Demolished Man, and a fraction of the awe and honor his unique quality gained him when he was with us. M r. Kirk, now, voices with some passion an opposition to what he thinks we believe in; it is difficult, after a quarter of a century in the field, to know where he got this conviction. We have never been aware that sf writers, or readers, or indeed scientists, one and all worship godless materialism. It seems to us that sf has and does express all degrees of religious devotion, right across the spectrum from Clarke's The Star to Boucher's Balaam. Can you accuse Heinlein of atheism? Or -- well -- Sturgeon? Bradbury is one of the most God-infused human beings we have ever met. We become increasingly aware of the nature of the opposition. To be fair, we should say a nature of etc. Have you ever observed the difficulty with which a genuine, intelligent, knowledgeable American patriot discusses and defines American democracy? In the articulate portions of the radical Right, no one seems to be able to produce a clear, simple declaration of aims and principles. Devoted members of the cler' gy traditionally spend months, and months of years, expatiating on theological points. The easy definitions come to the opposition. If you want a short snappy definition of American democracy, ask a Communist. Any leftwinger can dispose of all organized religion with the back of his hand. The entire television industry can be fluffled off by anyone who has never owned a set. In other short sharp words, you can define and oppose anything if you're ignorant enough, and if you're ignorant enough, you do,     IP  Complete Short Novel  The planet was an enigma -- and its solution was death! i A zoo can be a rather depressing place, or it can be a lot of fun, or it can be so dull as to make the mind wander elsewhere in self-defence. In fairness to Emeraude, Robin Lampert had to concede that this one was not quite in the last group. He had been able to keep his attention on the exhibits. This was, in a way, surprising; for while a frontier town has a perfect right to construct and maintain a zoo if it wishes, one can hardly expect such a place to do a very good job. The present example was, it must be admitted, not too good. The exhibits were in fairly ordinary cages -- barred for the larger creatures, glassed for the smaller ones. No particular attempt had been made to imitate natural surroundings. The place looked as artificial as bare concrete and iron could make it. To a person used to the luxuries provided their captive animals by the great cities of Earth and her sister planets, the environment might have been a gloomy one. Lampert did not feel that way. He had no particular standards of what a zoo should be, and he would probably have considered attempts at reproduction of natural habitat a distracting waste of time. He was not a biologist, and had only one reason for visiting the Emeraude zoo; the guide had insisted upon it. There was, of course, some justice in the demand. A man who was taking on the responsibility of caring for Lampert and his friends in the jungles of Viridis had a right to require that his charges know what they were facing. Lampert wanted to know, himself; so he had read conscientiously every placard on every cage he had been able to find. These had not been particularly informative, except in one or two cases. Most of the facts had been obvious from a look at the cages inhabitants. Even a geophysicist could tell that the Felodon , for example, was carnivorous -- after one of the creatures had bared a rather startling set of fangs by yawning in his face. The placard had told little more. Less, in fact, than McLaughlin had already said about the beasts. On the other hand, it had been distinctly informative to read that a small, salamanderlike thing in one of the glass-fronted cages was as poisonous as the most dangerous of Terrestrial snakes. There had been nothing in its appearance to betray the fact. It was at this point, in fact, that Lampert began really to awaken to what he was doing. H e was aroused all the way by McLaughlin's explanation of a number which appeared on a good many of the placards. Lampert had noticed it already. The number was always, it seemed, different, though always in the same place, and bore signs of much repainting. It bore no relationship to any classification scheme that Lampert knew, and neither of the paleontologists could enlighten him. Eventually he turned to McLaughlin and asked -- not expecting a useful answer, since the man was a guide rather than a naturalist. However, the tall man gave a 'faint smile and replied without hesitation. "That's just the number of human deaths known to have been caused by that animal this year." It did not comfort Lampert too greatly to learn that the year used was that of Viridis, some seventeen times as long as that of Earth. For the Felodon the number stood at twelve. This was not very much when compared to the annual losses from tigers in India during the nineteenth century. But this reflection was not particularly consoling. The human population of Viridis was so very small compared to that of India. Lampert examined the creature thoughtfully. It was of moderate size as carnivores went -- some four feet long without the tail -- and looked rather harmless as long as it kept its mouth shut. It was lying in the center of the cage, so it was difficult to judge the length of its legs. It showed no trace of the tendency displayed by many captive animals, of lying against a wall or in a corner when relaxed; and there was none of the restless pacing so characteristic of Earth's big cats under similar circumstances. It simIF ply lay and stared back at Lampert, so steadily that he never was sure whether or not the cold eyes were provided with lids. "I never liked reptiles back home, but I think I like these creatures less." The voice of Mitsuitei, the little archaeologist, cut into Lampert's reverie. "Don't let Hans or Ndomi hear you mention them in the same breath with reptiles," he answered. "Well, I'm not fond of frogs, either." "I'm afraid that wouldn't make them much happier. These are not even amphibians." "They certainly are. I've been told that they lay eggs in water and have a tadpole stage -- " "I should have said they aren't Amphibians with a capital A. That is, they don't belong to the order Amphibia, since they are not genetically related to the corresponding order on Earth, as far as we know. Sulewayo gets quite peeved at people who try to lump terrestrial and extraterrestrial creatures in the same order. I believe that whoever decides things for biologists has decreed thaf on Viridis the dominant order is to be called Amphibids. It's a quibble, if you like. But I can see why they insist on it." "Mph. So can I. Even now you sometimes run into people who go to great length to make you admit that there are pyramids both in Egypt and Mexico -- and for that matter on Regulus Six -- and infer from that that their makers had something in the way of common culture. I say these things are amphibians, without the Capital A, because they are at home both on land and in water. And a dictionary would back me up. I don't insist that they're related to those of Earth -- any more than a Mayan pyramid has anything but geometry in common with an Egyptian one." "But I've heard -- " "I'm sure you have, but it's a sore subject. I'll be open-minded if you like and admit that some Egyptian may have been blown across the Atlantic and taught architecture to the Americans, but I don't regard it as proved. What was that remark of yours -- 'as far as we know' -- in connection with the ancestry of the amphibids? That's being at least as open-minded as I was, I would say." # #Xn a way, yes. I don't think A anyone has seriously suggested that these things originated on Earth. However, a puzzle we're here to investigate still exists. How there could be life forms corresponding to those which took a good half a planet which by geophysical evidence hasn't been solid for forty gested that the world was stocked from outside. But certainly it hasn't been proved. I don't think anyone has tried very hard, either. And I certainly won't, on a planet with as much radioactivity as this one. "You think that would account for high-speed evolution?" Lampert shrugged his shoulders, and began to stroll toward the next cage. "Ask the paleontologists. My opinion doesn't carry much weight." Mitsuitei nodded, started to follow the geophysicist, and then turned back to stare once more at the carnivore lying a few feet away. It stared back unblinkingly. The visit to the zoo was one of several, which continued until Lampert, Mitsuitei and the two paleontologists were able to identify each of a dozen animals which were most concerned in the death rate of Viridis. Apparently McLaughlin was not the only guide who did this. The zoo was equipped to give a "final examination" in which any creature the guide desired could be seen on a television screen from viewpoints quite different from those obtained in front of the cages. McLaughlin proved hard to satisfy. Lampert did not blame him. He knew a lot about Viridis, of course. He had not only read of it in ordinary reference material, but had done much of the laboratory work on drill cores brought from the planet. His name had been one of those attached to the report giving the probable age of the planet's crust. At that time, however, the mental picture he held had been of continent distribution, rock strata, zones of diastrophic stress and the like. The question of the appearance, or even the existence, of plants, animals and people had simply never risen to conscious level in his mind. That had changed, shortly before his arrival. The tramp spacer which had brought him and his group to Viridis had had to orbit about the world in free fall for several hours while its obsolete drive elements IF w ; really sure of those. For the rest, the planet was a vast, gray-black circle occulting a portion of the Milky Way. It was not absolutely black, either. Its contrast with the background of the galaxy was diminished by the glow in the upper atmosphere arising from the recombination of water molecules dissociated during the day by Beta Librae's fierce ultraviolet light. The center of the circle was darker than the edges, where the line of sight penetrated through more of the luminous gas. But even this sight, unusual as it was, did not affect Lampert as much as the lack of city lights. He had done field work in lonely, wild places before, of course; but until now he had always had the feeling of being in an island of wilderness "cooled," and the passengers had examine the planet. Lampert, oddly enough, had been as much impressed by the night side as by the sunlit hemisphere. The latter had shown, ,at twenty thousand kilometers, a fairly standard land and water pattern. The most unusual thing about it had been the almost perfect uniformity of the land coloration, a light green which bespoke, or at least implied, a virtually complete covering of vegetation. By the time the ship had circled to the dark side, however, it was much closer to the surface; and Lampert would have expected to make out luminous sparks and patches of towns and cities by the hundreds. He saw just two, and was not more or less surrounded by civilization. On Viridis it was the civilized spots which formed the islands. And very small islands they were. There was no known native intelligent race, and settlements of alien races such as the men from Earth were still few and far between. So Lampert was prepared for McLaughlin's care in readying the group for its trip. He was even glad of it, though he would probably not have admitted to being at all afraid of the venture. He would simply have said that it was nice to have a guide who took his responsibilities seriously. T hat of course, did not mean that Lampert was intending to disavow any of his own responsibilities. He, like McLaughlin, had been keeping a careful eye on the other members of the group, looking for the signs of impatience or ill temper which could be the seeds of serious trouble if the journey were prolonged. He had come to tentative conclusions about this during the flight from Earth, but was pleased to see that, apparently, men who could stand the enforced companionship of a tramp spacer were also able to retain their senses of humor in the steam-bath environment of Viridis. Sulewayo, of course, had seemed safe from the first. A man who has spent his formative years in the Congo rain forests where his ancestors had lived for generations was ideal for this world. His sense of humor was extremely durable. Lampert suspected that it might sometimes be a little too good. Mitsuitei, the archaeologist, had once or twice appeared to resent some of the young fellow's remarks, though not to an extent where Lampert had felt the need for introducing his own personality into the matter. Krendall, nearly twice Sulewayo's age, seemed to be a check on the younger man anyway; he was a member of the same profession, and Sulewayo would have been the first to admit his respect fdr Krendall's work in the field. Under the circumstances, Lampert felt that the group was well matched. Whether it would be able to do the job it had undertaken was another matter. The news reports had spoken glibly of the expedition which was going to "solve the mysteries of Viridis once and for all." Lampert, like any other scientist, knew perfectly well that the solution of the present crop of mysteries about the planet would almost certainly be achieved only at the cost of creating an even greater number of new ones. Even the guide, who was admittedly no scientist, had expressed a similar opinion, though his was based on a general pessimism bred of familiarity with the planet. However, he had undertaken to get them to the sort of country they wanted; and from then on the problem solving was not his affair. The scientists, whatever may have been their feeling about matters of personal safety, were eager to start, which tended to cause rapid progress in McLaughlin's animal recognition school. Another factor tending toward the same result was IF that there was little in Emeraude for such men to do, except learn. The town was still small. It had a spaceport and airport, which furnished little entertainment, docks which could amuse for a while but not indefinitely, and warehouses which were completely uninteresting to geologists, paleontologists and archaeologists. There was no museum. The numerous specimens of mineral, animal, and vegetable matter collected on the planet invariably wound up on outbound spacecraft. The zoo, which the town maintained for purely practical reasons, was about the only thing that was left. In consequence, not many days passed before all four scientists were able to meet McLaughlin's requirements. Sulewayo was annoyed by the guide's addition of a short postgraduate course in edible flora and fauna, but admitted that the knowledge might well be useful. However, he made no secret of his satisfaction when McLaughlin finally announced that, as far as he was concerned, the journey could begin at any time. All four rechecked their equipment -- that of Lampert was by far the bulkiest -- and, everyone satisfied with the group's ability both to live and to work in the steam bath that was the world of Viridis, they watched the harbor on which Emeraude was located shrink and blend into the rest of the shoreline behind them. Within a few minutes only the restless surface of Green Bay was visible through the ever-present haze.   T he jaws of the Felodon abruptly stopped moving and its forelegs straightened, bringing the fanged head up and away from the kill it had just made. If a man had been there he would neither have seen nor heard the disturbing factor, for a Thunderstorm a few miles to the west was emitting an almost fcontinous growl and the towering trees shut out nearly all the sky. Nevertheless the beast appeared to sense something out of the ordinary. It twisted its short but supple neck ceaselessly, rocking its head from side to side to bring first one eye and tympanic membrane to bear on the jungle roof, then the other. Sometimes it froze motionless for a long moment, and a watcher would have sworn that its minute brain was struggling with a thought. If this were the case, the thought must have been both unusual and unpleasant, for under normal circumstances nothing short of overwhelming force would have driven a Felodon from its meal. Now, however, the hind legs slowly straightened and the creature came erect. For another moment it stood motionless, took a step or two away from the body, and stopped again. Abruptly, as though in defiance of some impulse, it turned back, lowered the murderously armed head and tore a huge mouthful of flesh from the carcass. Then, like a child leaving the cookie jar as its mother approaches, it leaped away into the underbrush, still swallowing. Its speed was high and it did not have far to go. The jungle thinned in a few hundred meters to the point where some sky became visible, and a short distance further the riotous plant growth vanished completely to give place to an open beach. Here the creature stopped and repeated its search of the hemisphere overhead. This time it found what it sought. Along the line of the beach, perhaps a kilometer out to sea, the thing came flying. It must have been utterly different from anything the Felodon could ever have seen, but no sign of fear appeared in the beast's demeanor. It stood on the beach, well away from the shelter of the jungle and certainly in full view from above, its head following the flying object and a fearful snarl -- which might or might not have been its normal expression of hunger -- giving its face an almost mammalian cast. This thing was larger by far than any flying creature the Felodon knew -- incomparably larger than the Felodon itself. Its details were hard to make out through the hazy air, and would have meant little to the flesh-eater in any case. The most noticeable characteristic was the steady, whistling hum that proceeded from it. There was a suggestion of motion, too, which might have been wings or might not. Actually, the thing was little more than a dark dot against the purplish-blue sky. At themoment no sunlight was striking it directly, for it was in the shadow of the thunderhead. Perhaps this prevented the animal below from being bothered by another unusual feature it possessed, though even the appearance of this last characteristic produced no sign of fear when it finally came. This occurred shortly after the flying thing passed, while it was still quite close. It moved out of the shadow of the great cloud and, as the greenish sunlight struck it, the eyes of the watching creature were dazzled by a gleam of metal. This was certainly something it had never seen, for native metal on Viridis is just about as common as it was on Earth before men began to pry it out of its ores. Viridis has an oxygen-rich atmosphere and plenty of moisture, and pure aluminum or chromium just doesn't occur in that environment. Strange or not, however, the gleam did not appear to affect the Felodon's rudimentary sense of fear. For just an instant it paused as the flying thing hummed on into the northeast; just once it looked back toward the point in the jungle where it had left its kill -- a point from which eloquent sounds were now coming, betraying the presence of carrion-eaters; just one step it took in that direction. Then it turned away as abruptly as it had from the meal a few minutes before. With the same purposeful air it had displayed on the way out of the jungle it headed down the beach in the direction taken by the flying piece of metal. Though the animal's speed was high, the humming soon faded out ahead of it. However, this did not seem to cause any inconvenience; the Felodon moved on, with a gait that might have been called a fast walk or a IF slow run, never hesitating, never pausing. It remained silent. Smaller creatures which might have given it a wide berth had they heard the hunting call now sprang away almost from underfoot. It paid them no heed, but continued on its way while the green sun settled into the jungle behind and to its left. The fact that its recent kill was now little more than a skeleton did not seem to bother it. Perhaps it had forgotten. II T he humming was a little more noticeable in the helicopter cabin, but not much. John McLaughlin, sprawled as comfortably as his two meters of height would permit in its confines, had noticed the sound only at first; and after remarking to himself that they seemed to be building better ion turbines since he had left Earth, had permitted his thoughts to wander in other directions. These did not concern Felodons; the interest there was not, at the moment, mutual. The rather crowded cabin offered material enough for consideration. McLaughlin was not a scientist by training, but neither was he the sort of guide that might have been found in Yukon or Amazon territory a few centuries back. He did not despise people merely because they were, by his standards, greenhorns. He knew that each of the other men now sharing this cabin with him was an expert in his own field, even though none of them, in spite of his training, would have been able to survive for more than a day in the jungles of Viridis. After all, why should they have learned such an art? There were other things worth learning, and one could always hire McLaughlin if a need to visit the jungles developed. Since this particular party had done just that, they were evidently a fairly practical crew. They were not talking very much, which from the guide's viewpoint was an additional point in their favor. They already knew what they planned to do, and saw no point in repeating what had already been said. Of course, if they should fail to find the area they were seeking, there would be talk -- all of it aimed at McLaughlin; but he had no fear on that score. There were few enough mountains on Viridis, and of those few by far the greater number were volcanic cinder cones. When these scientists had specified a region of tilted-block or folded mountains, the guide had been more than dubious at first. It had taken him time to recall that there was a small area meeting these specifications less than fifteen hundred miles from the spaceport at Emeraude. He was not himself a geologist, but pictures and diagrams had been used freely in explaining to him just what was wanted, and he was quite certain that the party would be satisfied with what he had to offer. A slight rocking in the hitherto steady motion of the helicopter roused him from this line of reverie. They were already several hours from Emeraude, and McLaughlin realized that he should have been paying more attention to the course. He straightened up in his seat and looked out. To the left and ahead was a huge thunderhead, whose satellite air currents had probably caused the variation on the helicopter's flight path. More important, there was land in sight. McLaughlin knew that the long flight across Green Bay was over. He waited, however, before saying anything. He had given the pilot full instructions as to the route before take-off, and he wanted to see whether those had been clear enough. Apparently they had. Without asking questions or even looking back at the guide, Lampert swung the aircraft from its northerly heading onto one which paralleled the shoreline, a turn of about forty-five degrees to the right, and the helicopter resumed its steady flight. McLaughlin did not relax. From now on the route was a little more difficult to follow, and there were not too many more hours of daylight. The shadowless night glow which made vision relatively easy after sunset did not lend itself to aerial navigation over a very poorly mapped world. He kept his eyes on the shoreline, watching for the landmarks he hd not seen for many months -- and then not from above. He did not see the Felodon which became so intensely interested in the helicopter. If he had, he would have attached little importance to the creature's presence, and he could not possibly have seen its actions in sufficient detail to catch any peculiarities in them. N o one else saw the beast, either. The change in course had roused most of the party from whatever lines of thought they had been pursuing, as it had McLaughlin, and most of them were looking out the windows; but they were interested in what lay ahead, not below. Sometime soon the relative monotony of jungle and swamp should be relieved by rising ground, indicating the nearness of the mountains they sought; and the helicopter's flight altitude of some two thousand feet was low enough to permit any significant rise of terrain to be visible. Sulewayo, the younger paleontologist, made a remark to that effect, which passed without comment. Real conversation did not start for some minutes. "As I understand it, we have one more course change before we see the mountains. Isn't there a river we have to follow for a time, String?" Lampert asked the question without looking back. "That's right," McLaughlin replied. "It runs into Green Bay from almost straight north, and about a hundred miles inland makes a turn to the east. That's general direction. It winds a lot." "It would, in country as nearly peneplaned as this," muttered Lampert under his breath. "The mountains you want start about sixty airline miles from the big bend. If you trust your gyro compass enough, you can head for them directly from the river mouth. If you have any doubt about being able to hold a line, though, follow the river. I doubt that there are any IP good landmarks otherwise. Of course, I've only seen the area from the surface and close to the river, but I'd be very surprised if there was anything around but the swampand-jungle mess we're over now." "So would I. We'll stay in sight of the river, but edge as far east as visibility lets us." The guide approved this plan with a nod, and the conversation lapsed for several minutes. The silence was finally broken once more by Sulewayo. "I hope these hills we're looking for have something of interest. This planet is the most monotonous I've seen yet. Where it isn't jungle it's swamp; and the only difference between the two is that the jungle grows higher trees." McLaughlin's face crinkled into something like a smile, and he sat up once more. "There's one other difference," he remarked. "What's that?" "In the jungle, dressed and equipped as you now are, you might live as long as a day. In the swamp, five minutes would be an optimistic estimate." Sulewayo looked down at the shorts and boots which constituted his costume, and shrugged. "I admit the point, but I don't expect to go out this way. What I actually wear and carry, beside my professional equipment, is up to you. Also, I was referring to appearances. Beta Lyrae Nine looked almost as dull as this world from above, and I'll bet it was as least as deadly when you reached the surface." McLaughlin had never visited New Sheol, and admitted it, but it took more than that to stop Sulewayo. "Actually, I was hoping that these hills didn't turn out to be so covered with soil that any fossils would be yards underground at the best. Do you recall any places where the rock strata themselves were exposed -- steep cliffs, or deep stream gullies, perhaps?" "Definitely yes. The big river cuts right across the range, or else starts in it. It comes out from a canyon like that of the Colorado on Earth, though a lot less spectacular. Actually I don't know anything about the country more than a couple of miles up that canyon. I was stopped on the river by rapids, and couldn't get my amphib out on either side. For the most part there simply wasn't any shore, just cliff." "Quite a current, I suppose?" Lampert cut in. "Actually, not very much. I went swimming in worse, on Earth." # Cnphat hardly ties in with A steep cliffs and a river cutting through a mountain range." McLaughlin shrugged. "You're the geologist. Look it over for yourself. Maybe you'll just have to add it to the list of things you don't understand about Viridis." "Fair enough." The pilot-commander-geophysicist nodded. "I did not mean to imply that you were not reporting accurately; but the situation you have described would be a trifle queer on more planets than Earth, I assure you. Still, with luck your cliffs will show fossils. Maybe we'll solve one problem in exchange for another. Life could be worse." "Just hope we don't solve the first one by proving that certain geophysicists have been talking through their hats," the hitherto silent Krendall remarked. "Eh?" "What would you do if we found a chunk of, say, pegmatite with radioactive inclusions that checked been giving us as a time scale for this mudball?" "I should check very carefully under what circumstances and in what location you found it. If necessary, I would admit that the probyears would account reasonably well for the evolutionary status of this planet's life forms, though actually it took Earth a good deal longer to reach a corresponding condition. Frankly, however, I do not expect any such find. We spotted our borings rather carefully, and should have taken pretty representative samples." "I'm sure you did. If your results are right, it just means that the problem belongs to Hans and me -- and String here had better find us a lot of fossils." "You'll have to find your own bones," McLaughlin replied. "I'm taking you to the sort of ground you want. A fossil would have to show its teeth in my face before I'd recognize it -- and then I'd probably shoot before I realized it was dead." "All right," Sulewayo chuckled. "You take care of the quick, and Krendall and I will worry about the dead. Dr. Lampert can figure out how old the fossils are if we find any, and Take can look for stone axes." "Or automobiles, or pieces of space-drive tubes, or other artifacts," Mitsuitei answered the implied dig. "I plan to sit back and loaf, unless and until one of you lads turns up a skull that could have held more than half an ounce of brain. I am going to be very unscientific. I believe that there is nothing on this planet for an archeologist to do, and I am not going to work myself into a lather to prove myself wrong." "You've formed an opinion rather early in the game," Lampert remarked. "After all, remarkably little of this world has been explored. Why should there not be traces of occupation in unknown areas such as we are about to visit?" "Because, while most of the planet remains unexplored, a very large number of places which should have furnished traces of habitation have failed to do so. We've surveyed many spots which were, or are, ideal for cities based on ocean commerce, or market centers for what could be farm areas, or spaceports. After a while you get to a point where such finds can be predicted with some certainty. As I said, I am far from certain, and it would be most unreasonable to say I was; but in the area we are seeking, I see no reason to expect anything of interest to my profession." L ampert shrugged and brought his full attention back to the controls. The sun was slowly IF sinking, bringing into bolder relief the irregularities of the ground as their shadows lengthened. However, these irregularities were still few, and the jungle roof was for the most part evenly illuminated. As McLaughlin had expected, there was nothing that could be used as a landmark. In its own way, the forest was as featureless as the ocean. The pilot kept his gaze riveted ahead, in expectation of the river which the guide had told them to expect; and presently he saw it. Reflecting the color of the faintly purplish sky, it stood out fairly well against the gray-green of the jungle, once they were close enough to penetrate the ever-present haze. With McLaughlin nodding silent approval, Lampert swung the helicopter to the left and proceeded more nearly straight north, angling gradually toward the river. Now the jungle took on a little more feature, though still nothing that could be used for guidance. At fairly frequent intervals a glint of water became visible through the trees directly below them. Evidently numerous tributaries were feeding into the larger stream; but none of these could be seen from any distance. For the most part they were so narrow that the trees growing on each side met above them. "I should think that one could cover a great deal of that territory in a boat," remarked Mitsuitei, after nearly half an hour in the new direction. " You'd need an amphib," replied the guide. "A boat is all right for the main stream, but all that stuff coming in from the sides is so shallow that you'd never make progress with anything else. I've tried most of them in my own croc. Every time I've had to crawl rather than float before I was a mile from the river. "How is the ground? Swamp?" "No, it's fairly solid for the most part. It doesn't show very well yet even with the sun as low as it is, but the general ground level is pushing up slowly all along here. We'll be in sight of your mountains before too long." This declaration brought all members of the group to the windows, all five pairs of eyes covering the quadrant of vision below and ahead. The meandering river was now on their left, but just visible through the haze ahead of them was the eastward turn McLaughlin had predicted. Lampert headed a little more to the right in an attempt to cut the final corner, but the helicopter reached the winding purplish band before their goal came in sight in spite of this effort. The flyer hummed on. The bars of sunlight admitted by the side ports had been nearly horizontal when the turn to the east cut them off. They were only slightly more so when McLaughlin gave a satisfied grunt, and nodded forward. The others followed his gaze. S traight ahead, little could be seen because of the "bright spot" familiar to every flyer -- the shadowless area directly opposite the sun, centered on the aircraft's own shadow. To either side, however, the promised hills rose out of the jungle to heights exceeding the present flight altitude of the helicopter. Presumably the canyon from which the river was supposed to emerge lay in their path. So, at any rate, Lampert remarked; and McLaughlin confirmed him. "I'd cruise pretty slowly from here on," the guide added. "There are a number of hills on this side of the range. Even if you're not worried about running into one of them, you may want to examine them for exposed rocks." "Mightn't it be better to find a spot to park before the sun goes down?" countered the pilot. "It might. What I said still holds, though. You haven't much chance finding one inside the canyon without quite a long search, and it will be best to stay this side of the range until sunrise. Remember my trouble in finding a beach for the amphib while I was inside." "All right. Can we land in jungle, though?" "Not unless you want to fold the blades in flight and drop the last twenty to fifty feet. Hunt for a fairly high hill. They're usually somewhat bare on top, and you'll at least have room for the rotors to swing. If you don't like that, or can't find a suitsfble hilltop, land on the river and tie up to the shore -- but again, don't try that in the canyon. You're unlikely to find anything to tie up to." "This machine has good lights, I suppose you realize -- but then, you know the planet. As far as I'm concerned, what you say goes. Are the chances of a hill equally good on either side of the river?" "Maybe a little better to the north. The ground looked higher that way when I came out of the canyon." Lampert obediently eased the flyer's course a trifle to the left, and everyone aboard watched the ground as it began to rise toward them. At first the "hills" were merely low mounds, as jungle-covered as the level ground; but very quickly these gave way to higher, steeper rises on whose tops the larger trees grew very sparsely. One of these was quickly selected after a brief, questioning glance from Lampert to the guide, and the helicopter began to descend. "We'd better take what we have now. ".McLaughlin amplified the nod with which he had answered the pilot. "This belt of hills is pretty narrow, and we'd be into the main range in another minute or two." "Do you know whether the other side is as abrupt, or whether -- " Lam pert's question was cut short by an exclamation from Mitsuitei. "Rob! Hold it a moment!" Lampert was a good pilot; the increase in rotor-blade pitch under his deft fingers brought the helicopter's descent to as nearly an instant halt as was possible to anything airborne. Not until he had also checked horizontal drift did he look in the direction the archaeologist was indicating. By then, everyone else had seen what had attracted Mitsuitei's attention. Between the hill on which Lampert had intended to land and the river were several lower eminences. IF These were now almost directly south of the helicopter, and every detail upon them was shown in exaggerated relief by shadows stretching to the east. It was one of these hills which Mitsuitei was examining with the utmost care. It was covered with jungle, like the rest; but a curious regularity was visible. The trees appeared, at this distance, to be of the usual species; but some of them towered over their fellows by a good thirty or forty feet. This in itself was not odd. The whole jungle was studded with such projections. However, on this hill the taller trees seemed to have been planted in orderly rows. Five solid lines of them were visible, extending roughly north and south so that their long shadows made them stand out sharply. They were separated from each other by perhaps a quarter of a mile. Running at right angles to them were other, less outstanding rows of vegetation. Lampert was not quite sure that these were not the product of his own imagination, since the trees which formed them rose little if any above the general level. The whole hilltop, however, suggested something to every man who saw it. The archaeologist was .the first to give voice to the impression. "That was a city!" N o one answered. Some of the scientists must have thought that he was jumping from one opinion to its direct opposite on the strength of some rather feeble evidence; but the thought went unvoiced. They simply looked -- except for Sulewayo, who moved to turned a camera on the scene. "Rob! Can we land there? Now?" Lampert had anticipated this question, but could have answered it without hesitation in any case. "Sure -- if you don't mind using String's method of folding the blades and falling in." The archaeologist turned to the guide. "Will it be hard to gel there on foot from this hill we're heading for?" McLaughlin shrugged. "From two hours to a day, depending on undergrowth." "We have torches. We can burn our way if the vegetation is dense." "Half a day, then. You'll still have to let the steam clear pretty often. There's little wind below the trees, and the air is saturated." "Well, that place will be worth more than a day of anyone's time. Maybe tomorrow we can -- " "Hold up a moment, Take!" Lampert cut in, before Mitsuitei could develop his plan further. "If you take String out to that hill before take-off tomorrow, what do the rest of us do for the day -- or week -- before you get back? What we'd better do is note this placepgt? on to the canyon, set up camp, get the fossil hunting going, and after our routine is set up and we know the more common dangers of the neighborhood, perhaps we can spare McLaughlin for a day or two so that you can look over your city -- if that's what it is." Lam pert's last few words banished the hurt expression from the little man's face. IF "What do you mean -- if? What else could make a pattern like that? It must have been streets." "Or a joint system in the rock below, trapping enough water -- or draining enough off -- to permit superior growth along the joint lines. Or a system of tilted strata doing the same thing -- " "If it's the latter, it's just the sort of thing you want, too. It should bring fossils near the surface." The pilot nodded slowly. "You do make it sound more attractive. Still, I think we'd better follow the original plan, except that I may come with you myself when we do get around to looking that hill over." He turned back to the controls and resumed their descent. Mitsuitei subsided once more to his seat. The archaeologist realized the wisdom of Lampert's decision, but did not particularly enjoy the enforced wait. His face showed the fact, until Sulewayo opened the camera he had been using and passed him the sheaf of prints on which the "city" appeared. As the young paleontologist had expected, these so occupied the little man's attention that he did not even notice the landing. T he helicopter settled to the hilltop which Lampert had chosen, in the center of a quadrangle of trees growing just far enough apart to give clearance to the rotors. The sun was nearly gone. It had vanished in the haze as they dropped below flight altitude. McLaughlin knew that in all too short a time it would be as dark as Viridis ever became. The nights could be dangerous. There was quite enough light to deceive a man into thinking he could see clearly, and an inexperienced wanderer might not realize until too late that details were not really distinct and that there was no clue to direction in the shadowless glow. McLaughlin himself could use the moons, but he doubted that any other member of the party could do so. They -- or their motions -- took knowing. He was pleased to note that there was no general rush to the door as the great blades whistled gently to a stop. The scientists turned to him, but remained where they were. No words were spoken, but Lampert's relinquishment of command was evident. McLaughlin unfolded his length from the seat. "There are two choices," he said. "We can sleep in the 'copter, or outside. The first will be a trifle cramped, but the second will require either a double circle of charged wire or two armed guards on constant watch. With no offense meant, I doubt that anyone but myself in this group could qualify as a night guard." "Why a double circle of wire?" asked Lampert. "The wire will stop only an animal in control of its motion when it makes contact. If a Felodon were to spring from a little distance, it might not like the wire -- but it could hardly stop until it reached the ground, and there should then be a similar barrier ahead of it." "We could use a lethal voltage." "Even if you want to take the m risk -- what is lethal to a Felodon will be equally so to a man -- you'll have the insulation problem. There's always a darned good chance of rain before morning, and -- " "We might as well stay inside, then. We have the electric equipment, but it will take quite a while to set it up; and it hardly seems worth the trouble for a one-night stand. As you say, it will be a little crowded here. But we've all slept under worse conditions. Would anyone rather set up the fence?" There was no answer to this question. At Lampert's direction a meal was served and eaten. Then the scientists settled down for the night, some to sleep at once, others to review plans or recheck equipment. Mitsuitei occupied himself with making careful measurements of the photographs he had been given; he was the last asleep... Scores of miles to the southwest, the Felodon reached the river. It was no longer on the coast; some time since it had swerved inland. A casual compass check would have revealed that it was still heading straight for the now grounded helicopter. Even McLaughlin could not have told what led the creature on, familiar as he was with the animals of Viridis; but no one who had watched thething since the flying machine had passed could have doubted its goal. Actually, it was now on the same bank of the river as the helicopter; but whatever guided it pointed across the great stream. Without hesitating, the amphibid plunged into the water. T he men were awake well before sunrise. The human body takes a long, long time to accustom its physiological cycle to a change in something as fundamental as the length of day. But they did not attempt to resume flight until the green star was once more in the sky. Mitsuitei put forth a tentative suggestion that the interval be spent in a visit to the "city" site he had seen the night before, but McLaughlin vetoed it. "Going on foot through the jungle at night is a fool's game, though I admit people sometimes get away with it. I could get you there, but even if we turned around and came back immediately there'd be a lot of time wasted. Dr. Lampert went over all that last night. Look, that hill of yours is right by the river. After we're set up in the main camp, it will be relatively easy to drop down to it. We have collapsible boats. Unless we camp above the rapids, you won't even have to fly. Even if we're farther upstream and do have to use the 'copter, the trip will take only a few minutes." Mitsuitei had agreed, though with evident reluctance. No one else had any desire to go out; there was not enough rock exposed on the hilltop to excite the paleontologists, the hill itself presented nothing unusual to Lampert's geophysical eye, and McLaughlin was in no hurry to get to work. They waited, therefore, until the "Claw" -- Lampert had recalled Beta Librae's Arabic name -- had risen and the skyglow been replaced IF journey was resumed. It took, as McLaughlin had said the night before, only a few minutes. The' hill where they had slept was less than five miles from the face of the mountain range. Only the haze of the night before had prevented their seeing it. The river emerged from a canyon some fifteen hundred feet in depth, a couple of miles to the south of their eastward course line. Lampert, in hopes that the usual haze might not be too evident at this hour, climbed above the level of the cliff top to get an idea of the mountain range as a whole; but he was disappointed. For nearly an hour he cruised over the area, now several thousand feet above the western cliffs and then well below them. It slowly became evident that the range represented a single block, which had been tilted upward on the west side. The opposite slopes were very gentle, merging so gradually into the general peneplain level of the continent that it was impossible to say decisively just where the range ended. The river did originate somewhere beyond the range, cutting entirely through it, and as the guide had said, its current was not particularly swift. Lampert had much explaining to do. After all, water should have drained toward the low side of the block. "It seems evident," he summed up his ideas as they hovered once more over the western cliffs, "that the river was here before this particular bit of block tilting occurred. This planet does have some diastrophic forces left in its crust, in spite of its generally smooth nature. Apparently this just represents the end of a long period of rest, such as the earth has had several times. As a matter of fact, I have no business calling it the end of such a period; the world will be generally mountainous again." "Why do you say again , Rob?" asked Krendall. "According to findings of your own colleagues, this planet has hardly been solid for flat now if it had ever been markedly mountainous in that time?" "Good point. I don't know, but would be inclined to doubt it. Well, we'll cancel the 'again' if it will make you happy. In any case the block forming this range came up slowly enough so that even this river, with its relatively low cutting power, was able to keep pace with it and not be deflected. Probably -- " he glanced at Mitsuitei -- "the rock of which it is made will turn out to be quite strongly jointed. It looks rather that way from above -- the river course, I mean. A lot of right angle, or what were once right angle, bends." "We'd better go down and look for a camp along the river somewhere," put in Mitsuitei. "Let's start at the cliff end. Then we may wind up reasonably close to that hill -- and I still want to look it over, joints or no joints." "Fair enough." Lampert eased the helicopter once more downward until they were only a few hundred feet above the jungle, moved along the cliff face until they reached the canyon, and, very cautiously, entered. His caution proved unnecessary. The air currents in no way resembled the treacherous hodgepodge he had expected, at least not over the center of the river. A steady wind was blowing into the canyon mouth, but did not seem to be eddying very much even at the numerous bends. T o the archeologist's annoyance, two sets of rapids were passed before a place was reached where the bank was wide enough for a camp site. At this point a fairly large side canyon entered the main one from the north. Where its central stream joined the main river a gravelly area several acres in extent offered itself for the purposes of the scientists. Lampert brought the helicopter down on this surface. The surroundings looked promising; the clifls facing both canyons looked reasonably accessible on foot for some distance, at least along their bases. Climbing appeared to be impracticable for the most part, as the rock walls rose sheer except for the occasional joints which Lampert had predicted; but the material was certainly sedimentary, and everyone but the guide tumbled out of the flyer with a glow in his eyes which promised a speedy scattering of the party. With some difficulty, McLaughlin got them together. A site, some twenty yards square, was selected against one of the cliffs and fenced off. The big, prefabricated sheetmetal "tent" was erected and its tiny conditioning unit installed; sleeping and cooking gear were placed inside. That completed, geologist's hammers appeared as though by magic; and McLaughlin realized that he had better do some explaining before he lost a scientist or two. Once more he called them together. "All right, gentlemen. I admit the necessary camp work has been done, and there should be nothing to keep you from your projects. Still, there are some things you Had better understand. "Having canyon walls on all sides does not make this place safe. Every carnivore and poison lizard on this planet could get to us by way of the river -- even the ones which look like land animals. Every one of them could swim under water from a point out of sight in either direction to where you are standing; and if you think he would have to come up at least once to judge your position, guess again. I don't know how they do it, and neither does anyone else; but a Felodon could submerge around the bend up there, come up behind the helicopter out of sight of any one of us and be waiting when we marched around the machine. Therefore, go armed at all times. I know you want to cover a lot of ground, and can't stick in one party; but I insist that you do not go anywhere alone. Take at least one companion. Preferably one who is not a member of your own field. If you two paleontologists are together, for example, it seems more than likely that you'll be found with your heads in the same hole in the rock. When one of you has to dig, IF make sure the other has his neck on a swivel. I know this will slow your work, but not as much as if the work had to wait for a new investigating team from Emeraude -- or from Earth. "You've seen most of the dangerous animals in the zoo at Emeraude, so I won't waste time describing them. Just remember that you won't always hear them coming. You'll have to use your eyes. "All right, Dr. Lampert. You're the boss, as far as the scientific work goes. Who does what, and where?" T he geophysicist gave no sign of having detected the humor in the guide's remark, but began speaking at once. "I should say that the main canyon upstream and the side one in the same direction should be covered first. We've already used up a good deal of today, and would waste more breaking out the boats. Ndomi and I will go up the main stream; Hans and Take can take the other. Don't hurry. If anything looks good, take the time to investigate it on the spot. Of course, if it is obviously a major job, just mark it and go on. There's no sense in one man's trying to exhume a six-foot lizard skull. "Since this region must have been sea when the limestone was deposited, there's not much chance of land animals. However, we want as complete a chronological series as possible, so do the best you can on this level. We'll try for higher formations later. There should be plenty farther upriver, if this block is tilted the way it seems to be. "String, perhaps you'd better go with Take and Hans. Set out when you're ready. Be back in -- " he glanced automatically at the narrow strip of purplish-blue sky, then at his watch -- "four hours; then we'll compare notes. After that we can either concentrate on one place or the other, or break out the boats and cross the streams, as indicated." Twenty minutes later the parties were out of sight of each other and the helicopter. Lampert had spent the first few minutes of the walk wondering whether he had been too obvious in arranging for both the guide and Krendall to accompany the little archaeologist; but he quickly convinced himself that McLaughlin's speech had covered the arrangements pretty well. In any case, he would probably have been distracted soon enough. The cliffs were interesting. Limestone, evidently, as expected -- but rather dense, at that; maybe some barium replacing the calcium? or was the gravity different enough to destroy his judgement for such a small fragment? Probably not. He was actually using inertia more than weight in making his estimate. Anyway, the stuff was certainly a carbonate. It frothed satisfyingly under a drop of acid from Lampert's kit. And there were fossils. Sulewayo's form was bent over a spot on the cliff face, examining minutely; but Lampert could see others from where he stood. None seemed remarkable. Most were rather evidently shellfish. He carefully refrained from giving them names according to the genera they resembled in Earth's rocks; Sulewayo and his colleagues frowned on the practice, which could be most misleading. He could not, however, resist the temptation to think of them as scallops. "What do you have there, Ndomi?" He knew the other would not have spent so long on any shellfish. "Not sure, precisely. Maybe vertebrate, maybe not. What could be armor and what could be ribs all mixed up. I think I'll mark it for future reference." "I suppose it'll be another Devonian whatsit, like everything else on this planet, when you do decide." "Pennsylvanian would better describe the world as a whole. Barring that, you may be right. Rob, if you'd give me a hand here we could get some basic work done." "Eh?" "You say this is a tilted block. In lowest formations right now. I'd like to get photos and if possible specimens of as many different varieties of shellfish as possible, at each level. Then it may be possible to set up some sort of temporal sequence -- and use the things as index fossils if animals do evolve on this benighted mudball. If you could get me some radioactive dates at two or three nicely scattered levels, it would also help." "Thanks," returned Lampert drily. "I could use material like that myself. I can tell you what you probably already know -- you're not likely to get anything of the sort from limestone." "Well -- intrusions are always possible." "You watch for 'em, then." The pair went to work. T wo hours out, a little more than one back. There was no one at the helicopter when they reached it, but the other group came in only a few minutes over the fourhour limit which Lampert had imposed. A comparison of notes over the meal which had been quickly prepared indicated that the second group had gone farther in point of miles covered, but had accomplished less work. Krendall had had the same idea as Sulewayo. But he had not attempted to carry it out since his canyon did not cut across the range, and would presumably not furnish a continous change in formations. Lampert and Sulewayo, as it happened, had not found any evidence of change themselves. The last fossils they had found were at least superficially identical with the first. There was the usual evidence of bedding, and it had been quite evident geometrically that the walk had taken them to originally higher, and presumably later, levels; but in what must have been eight hundred feet or more of original deposit, there seemed to have been no significant change in the fossil life. What eight hundred feet would mean in point of time, of course, no one had the least idea. There was not even a good guess as to how fast carbonates might be expected to precipitate in a Viridian ocean. Anyone could compute the carbonate ion equilibrium between atmosphere and sea, but no one knew anything to speak IF of about carbonate-precipitating organisms of the planet. Mitsuitei changed the subject slightly at this point. "We found several of the joints you predicted," he said to Lampert. "Oh? Very wide? We didn't spot anything that was obviously a joint. But there were several small side canyons -- all narrow enough for us to wade or jump their central streams -- which might have started life that way." "Ours were quite narrow, and bore traces of volcanic ash at the bottoms." "Eh?" "That's right, Rob. Here's a bit of it I brought back. I thought you might want a little corroboration on that one." Krendall handed over a bit of crumbly tuff as he spoke. Lampert examined it with pursed lips. "Maybe we'd better get back into the air, and search the neighborhood for volcanoes," he said at last. "I can't bring myself to believe in two full mountain-building cycles on this planet -- and if I could, I'd have a hard time swallowing the idea of these limestone layers coming up, going down, and coming up again unaltered. How deep were these volcanic deposits?" "Variable. Shallowest in the wider joints; in the very narrow ones, up out of sight." "Suggesting that they've been washing out for some time since the original settling. Anything organic in them?" "Nothing turned up yet." "Do they extend below the present river level, or what?" "They're at least down to it. We couldn't do any major excavating." "If they run much below," muttered Lampert, "I'll join the roster of geophysicists who have been driven off the rails by this woozy world. Well, let's assume as a working hypothesis that the volcanic activity is relatively recent. That will at least have the advantage of keeping me sane, until something comes up to disprove it." He finished his meal in silence, while McLaughlin gave a reproving lecture on the matter of wading. T here was still a little daylight to go when all the men had eaten; and Lampert, Sulewayo and the archaeologist took the helicopter up the main canyon to check on the possibility of walking to any really new deposits. They were sure, from changes of color already seen at various levels up the cliff face, that these existed. But it appeared that the lowest of them did not reach river level for more than a dozen miles. The distance was less mapwise, but the canyon, winding back and forth around what the geophysicist still felt must be joint-bounded blocks, went a good two miles in other directions for each one that it led eastward. Realizing this, the explorers lifted the helicopter and began checking as close to the cliffs as Lampert dared at higher levels. In this way they worked back toward the camp site. Once again it was Mitsuitei who first spotted something of major interest. "Found another city, Take?" asked Sulewayo at the other's call. "Not exactly. It's -- well, I guess it's really a system of those joints you keep talking about. Still, it looks awfully regular." He sounded a little wistful. "It does." The paleontologist nodded slowly. "As you say, it's probably a joint system. Also, it's probably full of volcanic ash, if my eyes don't deceive me. Rob, what's the chance of a landing on one of the shelves? There are at least three formations accessible on foot from that point; and I could get some more tuff samples to make or break your peace of mind, while I was doing my own work." Lampert examined the area carefully. Like Earth's Grand Canyon, this one receded from time to time in shelves where softer layers of rock had worn further back, or the orogenic processes had paused to give the river a longer bite at that level. The cracks Mitsuitei had seen formed a neat crisscross pattern on the top of one of the shelves. Some of them betrayed their nature by emerging from its vertical face. It was admittedly an unusually smallscale joint pattern, at least for this mountain system, and might well contain readable evidence of the forces which had shaped the area. However, they had only one helicopter. Lampert slowly shook his head in negation. "I'm afraid not, Ndomi. Your shelves may be big enough, but they're not level enough. I'd have to make a swinging landing, and I'm not that good a pilot." "Well, how about letting me down on the ladder? We have a hundred feet of that, so you could be up above the next shelf while I went down. You'd have plenty of blade clearance. That next level goes back a couple of hundred feet." "That might be all right." Lampert spoke hesitantly. "You certainly have the right to risk your own neck on the climb if you want to. We won't try it tonight, though. I'd like to check with String on the advisability of your being there alone. The place looks pretty hard to reach for anything that doesn't fly, and I don't know of any really dangerous flying things on this world; but we'd still better check." "All right with me. I'd just as soon have a full day, anyway." "If Ndomi will be spending a day alone up here, how about having String take me to the other place, and settle that point once and for all?" asked Mitsuitei as the helicopter eased downward toward the camp. "That would still leave Hans and you to form another team for whatever else you want to do." "That should be all right. It'll depend, though, on whether String thinks it's safe for a man to work alone on that shelf." The proposition was put to McLaughlin as soon as the machine was landed. To Lampert's surprise, the guide gave a qualified approval. "Remember," he concluded, "I don't know what lives on the cliffs. It's country I've never covered. All I'm saying is that no Viridian animal I know of could get there, except flying ones; and they're nothing to IF worry about, especially in the daytime. I'd like to go with you to look over the place when you take him up tomorrow, and strongly recommend that he carry a communicator as well as a weapon; but unless I see something you haven't mentioned when I do go, I would say it was all right... Once more the Felodon reached the river, but this time it did not cross. It was no longer heading straight for the helicopter. Hills had not altered its course, but the cliffs had. They formed a wall on its right which was too nearly vertical for its agility and strength. Even this barrier, however, had caused no visible hesitation or doubt. It had swerved, followed the base of the wall to the point where the river emerged and plunged in as promptly as it had done before. Few amphibians have ever lost the art of swimming when their larval gills vanished; the feeble current meant nothing to the Felodon. It turned upstream and went on its way. IV N domi Sulewayo had pursued his occupation on terraces of Earth's Grand Canyon, on cliffsides of Fomalhaut Four's highest range and in badlands on the dimly lighted Antares Twelve. The physical hazards of his present position troubled him little. McLaughlin had agreed that the ledge where the paleontologist had been left was inaccessible to the larger carnivores, and had merely issued a final warning about the green world poisonous "lizards." The primary danger, as nearly as Sulewayo could see, was that something might happen to the helicopter. He certainly could not rejoin the others on foot. He was facing a sheer wall some sixty feet high. A score of yards behind him the terrace ended in another straight drop of several hundred feet. A quarter of a mile on either side, the flat surface ended; to the west, by narrowing until the two walls became one; at the other end, it was cut off as far as he was concerned by a joint penetrating apparently the full depth of the canyon. There were several other cracks in the wall facing him. Like those in the tributary canyon explored by Krendall and Mitsuitei, these were packed with volcanic detritus. This was hard to reconcile with the suggestion that erosion had been long at work. In such a case, the higher portions should have washed away long before the material found at the canyon bottom. Examination at close range suggested a possible explanation. The tuff at this point was fairly well cemented. It seemed reasonable to suppose that the joints had been present before the mountains had started to rise; that a volcanic mud flow had filled them with detritus; that the new material had then been cemented by dissolved material coming from above. This would make the top levels of the tuff more resistant than those lower down, where the cementing minerals had not reached, and account for what had been seen so far. Wm fyviw The hypothesis also implied a plentiful supply of fossils. Volcanic mud flowing into a crack in the ground should carry plenty with it. Sulewayo set to work with a hammer, and was presently soaking with perspiration. He was tempted to remove some of his clothing; but this had been treated chemically to repel Viridian insects and caution prevailed. McLaughlin had not mentioned any dangerous biters or stingers, and in all probability his blood would not be to. the taste of any such creatures on this world -- but if the mosquito or tick did not learn that fact until after it had tried, Sulewayo would hardly profit by it. In any case the temptation to strip passed quickly. In only a few minutes, his attention was fully occupied by his work; for the expected fossils proved to be present in very satisfactory numbers. Most seemed rather fragmentary. Apparently the original creatures had been tumbled about rather badly before the medium hardened. However, the remains were definitely bones, as he had expected and hoped. For some time Sulewayo was occupied alternately digging out more fragments and trying to fit the more hopeful-looking specimens together, although he had no success at the latter job. Then evidence of a more complete set of remains appeared, and he instantly slowed down to the incredibly meticulous procedure which marks a paleontologist anywhere in the universe. At this time he had cut perhaps IF a foot into the tuff for the full three-foot width of the crack and from terrace level up to about his own height. In spite of its apparently firm texture, the rock was extremely soft; and the old question about erosion was reappearing. Big pockets of extremely crumbly material had been responsible for most of his speed. Now, however, with the usual perversity of the inanimate, a firmer substance was encountered, apparently encasing the bones he suspected of existing a little farther on. This combined with his increased care to bring almost to a halt the removal of rock from the cleft. T he bones were there. Perhaps they had been betrayed by a discoloration of the rock too faint for him to have noticed consciously; perhaps something more subtle is involved in the makeup of a successful field worker in paleontology, but as flake after flake of the matrix fell away under his attack a shape gradually took form. At first a single bone which might have been an unusually short digit or an unusually long carpal -- or, of course, something totally unrelated to either -- was outlined. Then another, close enough to suggest that their lifetime relationship might have been maintained. And another -- Sulewayo failed to hear the approach of the helicopter until its rotor wash from a hundred feet above lifted the dust about his ankles. Knowing that Lampert would be having trouble holding that close to the cliffside, the paleontologist reluctantly hooked his equipment to his belt and started up the ladder. Five minutes later they were back in the camp, with Krendall listening eagerly to Sulewayo's description of his find. "It's certainly a vertebrate, Hans. That stuff can't possibly be shell or wood. It's almost certainly a land dweller -- " "Likely enough in that sort of rock, anyway." " -- because I got enough uncovered to be nearly certain that it's a foot. Certainly a limb that would not be needed by a swimmer." "Like an ichthyosaur?" queried Lampert innocently. Sulewayo grinned. "Quite possibly. More likely one of our ubiquitous amphibids, though. Certainly something worth getting out, since the general idea is to get an evolutionary sequence of some sort." "I suppose that means you'll want me to date the eruption which filled all these cracks with detritus, then." "Sure. But there's no hurry. Tomorrow will do." Lampert found he had no answer to this, and Mitsuitei managed to edge into the discussion. He had spent the day with McLaughlin, as he had hoped; and mere failure to find paving stones had not damped his ardor. "I suppose you and Hans will both want to go up the cliff tomorrow," he remarked. "In that case, Rob might as well stay with String and me. It will speed up the digging back at my hill." "Are you still scraping dirt off that thing?" asked Sulewayo in mock urprise. "Didn't one day indicate that it was a joint pattern like the rest?" "Not yet. We haven't gotten down to rock over any place where your cracks should be. The root tangle of the taller trees slows the digging. I admit the rock is limestone like the cliff, but there's still no evidence why those trees grow so regularly." "That's just what we've been saying all along; but you keep looking for the remains of a city." "I gathered, Ndomi, from your recent conversation that you were digging for a land animal on the basis of three bones. Either you are working on hunch, which destroys your right to criticize, or you are reasoning from knowledge not available to the rest of us. In the latter case, you should be at least openminded enough to credit me with equivalent knowledge in my own field." It was Sulewayo's turn to have nothing to say; he had honestly supposed that the archaeologist had been taking the "city" hypothesis no more seriously than the rest. He apologized at once, and peace was restored. Lampert sealed it by agreeing to Mitsuitei's suggestion. The rest of the evening was spent in detail planning by the two groups. At sunset, all turned in to sleep behind the protection of the electrified fence. Even the guide regarded this as an adequate safeguard. A pparently his opinion was shared by at least one other. The Felodon had spent most of the day under water, part of the time in the canyon fairly close to Lampert and Krendall and later down the stream by the site where the guide and archaeologist had been working. At neither place had it emerged, or shown the slightest sign of wanting to attack. McLaughlin's reference to the strange instinct of the creatures seemed justified. It certainly could not see the men, but just as certainly was aware of their presence. What it was about the alien visitors which exercised such an influence on the minute brain of the carnivore, no one could have said -- then. Any watcher who had supposed, from its earlier actions, that it was moved by a desire for new and different taste sensations would have had to discard the notion now. With the men safely settled down behind their fence, the beast suddenly turned back downstream. It had returned to the camp site at the end of the working day. In an hour it was in the jungle below the canyon; in another it had killed, and was feeding as it had the moment before the hum of the helicopter had first attracted its attention. This time it finished the meal in peace; and once finished, did not show immediate signs of its former obsession. Instead it sought a lair and relaxed, blending so perfectly into the undergrowth and remaining so silent that within a few minutes small animals were passing only feet away from the concealed killer. Robin Lampert was only a fair statistician, but if he had been acIF quainted with the moves of that Felodon during the last few days, take oath that more than chance was involved. He would probably have wanted to dissect the animal in search of whatever mechanism was controlling it. But Robin Lampert knew nothing of the creature. Neither did Takehiko Mitsuitei; and that was rather unfortunate, for the lair it had selected was on the same hill as the archaeologist's digging site, and a scant quarter mile away from the pit Mitsuitei had left. T he rising of the green sun was not visible the next morning. The ever-present mist had thickened into a solid layer of cloud, and hissing rain cut the visibility to a few hundred yards. The helicopter felt its way down to the hill with radar, landed on the river, taxied on its floats to the bank and was moored. Lampert, McLaughlin and Mitsuitei emerged, the scientists laden with apparatus, and started up the hill toward the site. The guide carried only his weapons. The equipment was not of the sort Mitsuitei was accustomed to using. It actually belonged to Lampert. Normally it would not be used in an archaeological dig, any more than it would have been had they been fossil hunting; for neither activity takes kindly to any sort of automatic digging machinery. Lampert had suggested its use, however, in order to get a rapid idea of the nature of the soil cover, bed rock and joint structure of the hill. If evidence warranted, it would be abandoned for the slower methods of digging. If not, a few hours would permit them to learn as much about the area as many days of work with slower equipment. The hole Mitsuitei had already dug was part way up the hill, in a space cleared of underbrush by a flamethrower. Several other such clearings were in the neighborhood. As the archaeologist had said, he had made more than one attempt at digging which had been frustrated by roots. Somewhat to Lampert's surprise, it was possible to tell even from ground level the orientation of the taller trees which had been so prominent from the air. Even the smaller plants showed signs of some underground influence. Between the tallest trees, tracing out the straight lines the men had seen from above, the underbrush formed an almost impenetrable wall. Elsewhere foot travel was easy, though the surface was by no means barren. Lampert understood how there might indeed have been difficulty in digging on one of the fertile lines, and admitted as much. "That's the trouble," responded Mitsuitei. "I'd like to get down right at such a point, to see what's underneath. It seems to me that paving might be responsible, if they'd used the right materials. Lots of civilizations have used organic substances which decay to good fertilizer. Then there might be the remains of a sewage system, which would account for richer soil -- " "After the time which must have passed since the place was buried?" "Tt has happened. In such a case, of course, trace elements rather than nitrates or phosphates are responsible. That's what I suspect here." "But wouldn't it be better to dig where you actually have -- in the middle of a block, if that's what it Saun Lampert nodded and proceeded to assemble his equipment. The "mole" was a cylinder about five centimeters in diameter and three times as long. A cutter-lined mouth occupied one end, while the other was attached to a snaky appendage which was wound on a fair sized drum. A set of controls knobs and is? Then you'd be fairly certain to hit a building, which should be richer ground than a street." "Only if you actually strike artifacts. The building itself might be much less well preserved than a paved street. However, you are the one who's handling that mechanical mole. Dig where you want, and see what you can learn about this hilltop. Just get me at least a couple of cores from my 'streets' before you're done, please." indicators were mounted near the center of the drum. The geophysicist set the cylinder on the ground mouth downward, pushing it into the soft earth far enough to assure its remaining upright. Then he turned to his controls and after a moment, with very little noise, the cylinder began to sink into the ground. In a few seconds it was out of sight, trailing its snaky neck after it. The men watched it in silence. IF Perhaps thirty seconds after it disappeared, there was a minor convulsion in the neck, a momentarily rising hum from the machinery, and a plug of dirt about two centimeters in diameter and five long was ejected from a port in the center of the drum. This was seized by Lampert and examined briefly, then tossed aside. "The soil is pretty deep," he remarked. "How far down did that come from?" asked Mitsuitei. "One meter. That's the sampling interval I've set in it, for now. If it meets anything much harder or easier to penetrate, it will warn me and I'll grab them more frequently." Conversation lapsed while two more samples arrived and were inspected. Then a light flickered on the panel, and Lampert reset one of his knobs; and almost immediately a core of light gray limestone was produced. "Apparently the same stuff as the cliffs," said Lampert after examining the specimen. "Do you want to go any deeper, or drill a few more holes to get an idea of the contour?" "How fast will that thing go through limestone?" "A couple of centimeters per minute. It's too small to pack a real power unit." "Give it five minutes, just to make sure it isn't a building block." "Ten centimeters wouldn't give you a whole building block." "A sample from that far inside one would tell me what I want to know. You rock-chippers don't seem to think that archaeology is a science yet. Let me have that first core, too." Mitsuitei looked confident to the point of being cocky, and Lampert let the mole burrow on. The second core came in due time, and the little man set merrily to work with tiny chips from the two stone cylinders, a pinch of the lowest soil sample which had been acquired, a small comparison microscope and a kit full of tiny reagent bottles. Lampert used the time the tests consumed in reversing the mole and resetting the equipment on a new spot. By the time the little mechanism had gnawed its way once more to rock, Mitsuitei was forced to admit that the formation appeared to be natural. He did not seem as disheartened by the discovery as might have been expected. He simply waited for more cores, his narrow face reflecting nothing but the utter absorption Lampert knew he experienced whenever a problem arose in his line. In spite of his apparent tendency to jump to conclusions, Takehiko Mitsuitei was an experienced and respected member of his profession. Lampert knew enough about his cept his instructions for the present. A series of holes was drilled, from the original position toward one of the "streets" forty yards away from it. After each the archaeologist admitted with perfect cheerfulness that there was nothing inconsistent with the idea that the hill was a perfectly natural formation. He still insisted, however, that the regular lines of trees, reinforced as they were by the undergrowth pattern, required explanation. Lampert admitted this, but felt that he knew what the explanation would be. After all, volcanic residue is more than likely to contain the trace elements vegetation requires, even on Viridis. Finally the time came to get verification -- or the opposite. The flamethrower had to be used this time, and for several minutes clouds of steam swirled about the men as its blue-white tongue fought the sappy, rain-soaked undergrowth. Then the mole and its controls were wheeled into place, and the little robot once more nosed its way out of sight. "I don't suppose you want any samples above the regular rock level, do you?" asked Lampert as the machine disappeared. "I think it would be best if we took them as usual," was the reply. "For one thing, we should try to learn the depth at which the soil composition changes -- we are at least agreed that it changes in some manner, after all." "True enough." The geophysicist set his controls, and the process continued -- a process familiar now to McLaughlin as well as the scientists, for the guide had caught numerous glimpses of what was going on while heprowled about the work area on self-imposed guard duty. Mitsuitei took the crumbly soil cores as they came, examined them quickly -- they were arriving every few seconds -- and filed them in numbered compartments in a specimen case he had opened. Detailed stratigraphy would come later For some time there was no gross evidence of change in the soil; not, in fact, until his first case had been filled. "Can you stop that thing for a moment, Rob?" he asked at this point. "I don't want to lose track of these, and will have to hold up while I open a new case." "All right. I thought you'd want to stop for thought soon anyway." "Why?" "Because the mole is nearly four meters down, well below the depth at which we hit bedrock before, and is still in soil." "Eh? But -- but it's still ordinary soil; none of your volcanic ash." "Tuff had been eroded out of a lot of the joints in the cliffs. There's no reason to expect it to be at the same level as the surrounding rock." "That's true." Mitsuitei paused in thought for a moment. "If we keep on going straight down, we may just be working into a natural crack, as you say Might it not be better to drill several holes within a few square yards here, to determine whether it is a narrow joint such as you expect or an actual edge to the rock at this level?" "Maybe the edge of a roof, eh?" Lampert chuckled, but spoke in a manner which could give no offense. "I can do better than that. Don't need to pull up and start over; simply drill horizontally from where we are now. Shouldn't take long to get dimensions, if that's all you want." He halted the robot momentarily, and from a compartment in the drum removed something like a small theodolite mounting. This he set up on a short tripod over the IF point where the neck of the mole emerged from the ground, and set a pointer at right angles to the line of tall trees. Then he started the digging again. V F our starts in as many different directions and twenty minutes of time showed fairly conclusively that the line of vegetation which had given rise to the "street" theory was growing along a straight crack, apparently a fairly ordinary joint, in the limestone. While several more holes would have to be drilled to prove it, even Mitsuitei was willing to admit that in all probability the remaining lines would be found to be over similar cracks. "You must admit, though, that the regularity of this joint pattern is pretty unusual," the archaeologist said at length. "It's far from being unknown," Lampert replied. "I got my first large taste of it in my student days back on Earth. Fly over the mesa country in southwestern North America sometime. Most of the joints there are invisible from a distance, of course; but at the edge of a butte where weathering is most prominent the blocks have frequently started to separate, and the thing looks as though it had been put together from outsize bricks." "Hmph. Seem to remember something of the sort myself, now that you mention it. I did some digging in that area, too. I shouldn't have connected that sort of country with what we have here, though." "Different meat; same skeleton," replied Lampert. "But how about this volcanic ash, or mud, or whatever it is, which at least fills the joints we saw in the cliff? That's not so usual, is it?" "Not in my experience. But granting the joints and the volcanoes, there's nothing really surprising about it. Incidentally, we don't know that this crack we're standing on bore down again to make sure. At least we may get some idea of the date of the volcanic action compared to that of the orogeny that tilted the block where we're camped. If there's tuff down here too, it will substantiate the idea that the vulcanism is the older." "Why? Couldn't ash have settled down here as well as up there at substantially the same time?" "It could. But I'd bet a fairly respectable sum that the tuff we saw in the canyon was from a mud flow, not a fall of airborne ash. That could hardly have reached the top of the cliffs -- actually, the opposite slope of the mountains, where Sulewayo is working -- and this area simultaneously." "Maybe from different eruptions? I get the impression that this world has a slight tendency to produce volcanic fields rather than individual cones or flows." "Might be. Chemistry will probably settle that question." During the latter part of this discussion Lampert had directed the mole once more downwards, and every half meter of travel another core was added to the collection. At six and a half meters below the soil the first solid specimen arrived; the others had been held together only by roots. This one, however, caused the two scientists to look at each other. Lampert nodded slowly, with a smile. Mitsuitei gave a shrug, and let an expression of resignation play over his usually impassive features. The core was tuff, apparently identical with that in the cliffs to the east. It even contained fossils. I as well be taken over by the paleontology department," Lampert commented finally. "I suppose they'll at least want to compare fossils in the tilted and level strata." "I suppose so." Mitsuitei was turning the little cylinder over and over in his hand. "Tell me, Rob. what's this little speck of green?" "Copper salts of one sort or another, I suppose." Lampert was not greatly interested. "A lot of secondary minerals form in and under volcanic detritus. On this world, carbonates like malachite should form quite readily." "Why should it form in a regular thread like this?" "You mean a vein? Hard to tell precisely. Varying rates of water seepage, varying degrees of oxygen or carbon dfoxide penetration, varying degrees of compactness in the rock where the stuff is formed -- " "I don't mean a vein. This is in a cylindrical body going right through the core from one side to the other, as though there had been a copper wire there originally which had been attacked by soil acids." "Let's see. You're right. It's hardly an ordinary vein, though your suggestion seems a trifle far fetched. The paleontologists can probably furnish an idea. Maybe a vine or even a worm buried in the mud flow acted as the precipitating agent for copper salts in the subsequent seepage -- I've seen beautiful fossils of pyrite which had been formed that way." "But this shows no trace of structure, except for its exterior shape." "Isn't a really well preserved structure the exception rather than the rule in fossils?" "I suppose so. Still, I'd like to know just how far, and which way, this green thread goes. I'd also like to know whether there are dilute copper deposits spread through this rock, which could be concentrated in the way you suggest." "The first could be learned by taking enough cores. The other would call for some very careful analysis of samples which had been selected with a very sedulous eye kept on the stratigraphy. You know that; you must have done that sort of thing looking for carbon-fourteen samples, at times." "Yes, I see that. Could you make such analyses here?" "No, except for the mere presence of copper. The cores would have to go back to a well equipped lab. Still, if you want to get them, it's all right with me. Problems were made to be solved. I'll admit this one doesn't seem very exciting to me, but I can use your data after you finish for work of my own. You should wind up with material for a IP pretty complete geochemical picture of this neighborhood. Shall I get the cores for you?" "Yes, please." "Silly question. All right." The mole was drawn up a short distance, and sent questing downward once more at an angle to the original shaft, branching off a short distance above the level from which the copper deposit had come. Again and again the process was repeated, each time at a slightly different bearing from the central hole; and Mitsuitei examined each core for traces of green. At last he found it, piercing the little cylinder of rock as the other had done; and then, at his suggestion, Lampert reset the mole to get a sample in the opposite direction from the one which had furnished the new specimen. T his also checked positive; and four more samples, taken along the same line at various distances, all did the same. Apparently the line of green extended for some distance, about parallel both to the surface of the ground and the trend of the joint in which it was buried. Mitsuitei was radiant. "I'm going down to that level if I have to come back with an expedition of my own! If that's a fossil worm, it's worth getting the whole length anyway -- but I don't believe it is. I -- " "That will take a lot of time, you know," Lampert pointed out mildly. "Certainly I know! Even if I use your fast excavator down to the tuff level, I'll have to do detail work from then on. What of it?" "Well, the others may have jobs they want to do -- " "Then they can do them! What are we here for, anyway? I thought it was to investigate the past of this planet! Ndomi and Hansare doing that their own way right now. Why can't I? I'm an archaeologist, and I came along to do any archaeological work that presented itself to do; this is the only thing of the sort anyone's seen so far. I know what you're thinking. Maybe you're partly right. I certainly won't bet any money that this thread of green is a fossil telephone wire; but it's as likely to be that as anything else you've suggested, and I'm going down to that level and sift the whole volume. Hans and Ndomi can have any fossils I find if that will make you happier -- and if one of them says he has no use for fossils he didn't dig himself. I'll make him eat his words. I can identify, locate and report on anything that turns up in a rock as well as any of those jigsaw-puzzle people; and I can do it in mud, too, which is more than any of them could manage." "Don't get hot under the collar. If you can help it on this planet. You sound as though one of the boys had been giving you a lecture on the importance of knowing what strata a given series of specimens represent." "Not one of our boys -- they have a little more sense. But there was a young paleontologist when I was covering the Antares worlds whose memory still makes my blood pressure go up. Never mind me; that's not important. But I want to make this dig." "It will tie up machines, however freely we can spare time," Lampert said slowly. "I'll tell you: how about this? We spend the rest of the day getting cores from other points along these cracks. For one thing, we ought to know more about the structure of the hill, and for another, we might find more of your 'wires. After all, the chance of our hitting the only one around is pretty remote. I can't quite see a single dropped piece of copper wire showing up in the first two days of a project like this." "I neither said nor implied that this should be the only piece. I don't doubt for a moment that there are others, whether they are wires or worms." "Sorry. Well, we take these cores back to camp this evening, together with any others we find of the same sort, and let Hans and Ndomi look them over. If they don't turn out to be something that the boys recognize and can classify right off the bat, we come back tomorrow with all the digging machinery you want, and dig until you either find all you want, satisfy yourself that there's nothing here or find something which obviously requires more specialized attention than we can give it. All right?" "Nothing could be fairer. Let's go!" T he discussion in camp that evening was animated beyond anything the guide had heard. His original estimate of these men as relatively quiet specimens underwent a sharp revision. Mitsuitei's report of the day's activity at his site had, it is true, been delivered quite calmly; but from then on matters grew progressively livelier. This was not caused by opposition to the archaeologist's plans. The others were all in favor of remaining, for their own reasons. However, the question of just what was likely to be found gave rise to much rather barbed comment on Sulewayo's part. "I don't see how you can expect to find any trace of civilized work here," he said flatly at one point. "The animal and plant life of this planet is at a stage of evolution corresponding to something like Earth's Pennsylvanian age, when the amphibians were the highest known forms of life. I'm not saying that there couldn't be such a thing as an intelligent amphibian. But I do say that the normal set of evolutionary forces which, on both Earth and Viridis, produced creatures of the amphibian pattern could have done that or produced an intelligent fish; not both. If the latter ever evolved, it failed; for the amphibians -- pardon me, amphibids -- are here. To get an intelligent amphibid on this world will -- or would, if the sun were to last long enough -- require another orogenic period with the accompanying climatic changes. Then you'd stand a considerably higher chance of getting reptiles instead, if the comparative work done on over four hundred planets carries any meaning." "I don't doubt the value of the work at all. You are very probably IF correct. It did not occur to me to expect remains of intelligent amphibians. I saw no reason to presuppose that anything in the way of artifacts which I might find would necessarily be native to this planet." "You think there were other visitors from outside the Beta Librae system?" "The possibility certainly exists. Here we are." "But for Pete's sake! Do you really expect that they stayed long enough to build a city, or do you think you have the remains of a camp like ours, or what?" "I don't think anything. It has been suggested that such people did come, and stayed long enough to -- " "And you think you've found them." "I think nothing, except that I have found, with Rob's help, something which neither his professional knowledge, nor mine, nor even yours, is able to explain; and I think an explanation is desirable. I hope you won't consider me discourteous for pointing out that each time you have tried to accuse me of jumping to conclusions, you have been able to do so only by jumping to some yourself. I might further add that the suggestion that this planet had been stocked with its present supply of life types by visitors from space was advanced by a paleontologist, not by one of my colleagues. I gather he could not understand how life could evolve to the state it shows the planet seems to have been solid. I neither support nor deride the idea; I simply want to gather data, in an attempt to explain a much simpler question -- why are narrow threads of copper compounds to be found every few feet in the volcanic limestone hill, and why are those threads always nearly horizontal? You and Hans say they are not organic fossils, and I accept your conclusion. Rob says that there is no copper in that rock, detectable with his equipment, except within a few say nothing except that I have never seen such a thing before. Under the circumstances, I fail to understand where you get the idea that I think there is a city built by the people who stocked this world thirty million years ago buried under that hill. I know I said 'city' when I first saw it, and I still think I was justified in the opinion; I have now seen evidence which causes me to admit that the vegetation pattern was not caused by artificial structures, and I dismiss the original hypothesis. I still want to dig there, and in accordance with Rob's agreement I am going to dig there, with the assistance of anyone who chooses to help. I know you want to go back to your set of leg bones in the cliff, and have no objection to your doing so. Even I can now see, on the basis of your description, that you are uncovering the fossil of a land animal; and I agree that it is of great importance to get it out intact, if possible. But if I can see the importance and even the nature of your work, why can't you do the same for mine?" The little man was leaning forward and staring intensely into Sulewayo's face by the time he finished this harangue, and Ndomi once more felt a trifle ashamed of himself. Lampert, however, saved him the need of formulating an apology. A to ridicule your work in any way, Take," he said. "We all realize perfectly that an underground phenomenon which cannot be explained at sight either by geology, paleontology or archaeology is something which requires investigation. T imagine that the best plan will be for String and me to go with you tomorrow, while the others continue their stone-cutting. Hans, just how far along are you, anyway?" The older paleontologist thought for a moment. "We don't really know," he said at last. "Of course, we aren't trying to get the individual bones completely free of the matrix; that will take somebody months or years. We're uncovering just enough to determine the extent of the specimen, so we can take it all out in one block -- or more, of course, if it's too big. So far we can only guess at how big it is. We've uncovered with certainty two feet, and gone about hilf a meter along one of the attached legs. They seem to be extending straight back into the cliff, so in effect we're cutting a tunnel beside the thing. Assuming it had two main leg sections, as most of the present animals on both Earth and Viridis appear to have, we're about halfway between knee and hip joint. Of course, it might turn out to be the Viridian equivalent of a horse or chicken. In that case, we're about half way between ankle and knee. We certainly have several feet yet to penetrate before we can outline the whole block, assuming that the specimen is essentially complete. Several days, I would guess." "Can you use any sort of power apparatus for any of your cuts?" "I don't like to, on general principles, but -- yes, we could, with actually very little risk. If you have some sort of rock saw whose cutting part can get fine control, I'd be tunnel away from the actual specimen." "I have. We'll take you up there first thing in the morning, and I'll go down with you and show you how to use it before going on with Take and String." "Who holds the 'copter in place while you climb down the ladder, give your lesson and come back?" asked the guide. "Hmph. I forgot about that. All right, I'll break out the machinery and give the lesson right now." He got up and strode to the helicopter. McLaughlin covered him from the fence to the aircraft, but nothing dangerous appeared. The geophysicist disappeared inside, and returned a moment later with a compact metal case under his arm. The guide holstered his weapon as the gate in the fence closed once more... Actually, the Felodon was miles downstream. It had spent the day in its chosen lair, apparently indifferent to the doings of the men a IF few hundred yards away. With the coming of darkness -- real darkness this time, for the rain clouds cut off both the moonlight and the night glow from the upper atmosphere -- it had emerged, hunted, killed and fed as before, apparently unhampered by the lack of light. By midnight it was back in the same lair, paunch distended, as close to sleep as its coldblooded kind ever came. VI T he rain was still falling when the clouds lightened once more to the rising sun. Lam pert was getting used to navigating the canyon by radar, and was an excellent pilot anyway; so he did not have too much trouble in locating the shelf where Sulewayo and Krendall had been working. Getting the men down to it was not particularly difficult, though rather nerve-racking. Krendall went first, unburdened except for his personal equipment. Then he steadied the ladder for Sulewayo who had the cutter strapped across his shoulders. The steadying hand was needed. Climbing down a rope ladder when loaded "top-heavy" can be an extremely awkward bit of activity. Had the pilot above been any less capable, it would probably have been impossible. The ledge was wet, but fortunately not particularly slippery. The men set their equipment on the ground at the point where their cut entered the crack in the cliff, and without delay set to work. The tunnel was deep enough now to shelter the one actually cutting from the rain, so at first they took turns at this operation. The cutting machine Lampert had provided was a sort of diamondtoothed chain saw capable of a twometer extension. Ordinarily it was not the sort of thing a paleontologist would consider using so close to a specimen; but the men .were fairly sure by now of the general extent of the thing they were uncovering. Even so, they used the saw only on the side of their tunnel away from the visible remains. They speedily widened the passage enough to permit them both to get inside and work on the face of the exposed material; but they still used hand tools whenever there was any suspicion that a bone might be about to appear. Work proceeded several times as fast as it had the day before. They tried cutting another tunnel on the opposite side of the fossil, but this proved rather awkward. The creature was close to this side of the crack, and they had to cut limestone as well as the softer tuff. The saw proved capable of handling this -- it would have handled granite without trouble -- but went a little more slowly. Eventually, however, the two men were working on opposite sides of the fossil, each in a tunnel extending some two meters into the cliff face. Half a day's work uncovered the leg bones sufficiently to show that Krendall's first idea had been right. There were only the two major joints, each a trifle shorter than the corresponding parts of the human skeleton. The lower leg was single rather than double, however; knee and ankle both consisted of balland-socket joints; and with this fact determined the men paused for thought. "Now why," mused Krendall aloud, "should any sort of creature need that articulation?" "Could that foot be a hand instead?" asked Sulewayo. Of course, questions like that should have awaited the results of detailed examination in a laboratory. Equally of course, the two men proceeded to clear one of the "feet" a little more thoroughly in order to find out for themselves. The answer was not helpful, though. "He might have picked up a twig with it, but he couldn't have held it any more tightly than I can in my toes," was Krendall's verdict. "It's a bigger and flatter foot than ours. But it's a foot -- nothing more." "Maybe a swimming organ on the side?" suggested Sulewayo cautiousiy "Seems doubtful. If that joint evolved for such a purpose, I should think there'd be a corresponding modification in the foot bones, too -- say a flattening such as you see in the paddles of some of the Mesozoic sea reptiles of Earth." "Reasonable." "But not necessarily right. That I admit. Anything else strike you?" "Yes, though it makes the joints still more unbelievable." "What?" "The foot itself Unless some rather remarkable distortion has occurred, it had both longitudinal and transverse arches, like yours and mine -- which suggests strongly that this thing's ancestors had been walking erect on two legs for some hundreds of thousands of generations." Krendall raised his eyebrows at this, and silently examined the bony structure before them for several minutes. "I -- hadn't -- spotted -- that," he said slowly. He looked in silence for several more seconds. Then the two men, moved by a single thought, went to the other end of the exposed leg and began to clear the hip joint and pelvic region. They worked almost in silence, understanding each other perfectly, like an experienced surgical team; and gradually the equivalent of a pelvic girdle and lower end of a spinal column were cleared sufficiently to show their general nature. It was at this point that the helicopter returned; but neither man noticed the fact until McLaughlin had called several times from the open ladder hatch. They climbed silently and thoughtfully up to the flyer; but Mitsuitei's first question started the talk flowing. It did not end for a long, long time. K rendall, with difficulty, held interruptions of his more volatile companion. "There can be only the slightest doubt that this thing we're uncovering walked erect on two legs," he reported. "The feet; the way the pelvis is modified to support internal organs; the fusing of the lowest IF VQtfH #JN TA #Z vertebrae with the pelvic girdle to form a weight carrying foundation -- they all point the same way. The only thing hard to understand is the knee and ankle joints. If we had them, it would be virtually impossible for us to hold our legs rigid. Perhaps some really remarkable musculature -- " "Or a cartilage structure which has not been preserved," cut in Sulewayo. "Or some such thing as that, would explain it. I don't know. The creature is good for several Ph.D. theses just as it lies -- and probably an equal number of nervous collapses when we get it out." "I find myself strongly desirous of seeing its skull," remarked Lampert. Sulewayo glanced at him sharply. "You, too?" asked the young paleontologist. "I was hoping I was the only one crazy enough to have thought of that." Mitsuitei smiled openly, an almost unheard-of act for him. He said nothing for a moment, but everyone saw him; and even McLaughlin understood the thought. After a sufficiently long pause, he asked a question. "Have you uncovered enough of this creature's structure to guess at any evolutionary connection -- or lack of it -- with the amphibids we already know on this world?" "I'd hate to take any oaths," replied Krendall. "The legs, which we've seen most of, are different in detail; but they at least correspond in general with what we find here. The only really significant point there would be the single shinbone. In that it resembles Viridian land life in general -- these animals don't have the separate tibia and fibula characteristic of the usual run of Earthly land vertebrates. It really proves nothing about what we're all thinking, of course." "I am tempted to work with you gentlemen tomorrow," muttered the archaeologist. "Why? Didn't your investigation pan out?" "It is harder for me to say than for you, so far. To dig a pit, big enough not only to work in but to cover a useful amount of ground, in a driving rain, is quite a job even with Rob's machines -- which I would never use were I not sure that there is nothing of importance above the limestone level. I have gotten down to the rock over an area three meters square, which is very good going; but I shall undoubtedly find the pit full of water tomorrow, as we have not yet improvised a really satisfactory drainage system. I cannot -- or at least will not -- use machines inside the crack in the limestone; so it will be some time before I get down to our mysterious green threads." "Then it would seem that the best we can do is go on as we have," said Lampert. "The only change might be if one more man were to help at Take's dig. But I don't suppose either Hans or Ndomi would care to leave his own job at the moment, and actually there's not much more to do at the hill which can be done by anyone but Take himself. I'll continue to help him as long as it's a question of moving mud, but IF after that he'll have to do his own sifting. String is automatically on guard duty at the hill, so there's not much change we can make. Though I must say I haven't seen anything dangerous yet, in that jungle." "Those animals are like crows," remarked the guide. "We used to have 'em on the farm, back on Earth. They'd be all over a freshly planted field, while no one was around. Come out yelling -- they don't move; come out with a gun, and they're gone -- unless you'd happened to forget to load it; then they sat and laughed at you. If you're suggesting, Doctor, that I should relax the guard duty and lend a hand with digging, I veto the idea -- and not because I'm afraid of getting my hands dirty." C C T won't say I didn't have A some such thought, but I accept your ruling " smiled Lampert. There was silence for a moment; then Krendall reverted to the earlier subject. "You know," he said, "if this thing we've found does turn out to have been intelligent, it will hardly solve any of the existing problems about Viridis." ' "Why not?" asked Sulewayo in some surprise. "We still won't know whether it's native to the planet or not, unless we can establish a relatively complete evolutionary sequence leading to this form. If we do that, the question of speed of evolution here gets worse than ever; if we don't no one will be sure whether or not we ought to look for buried spaceports or send out expeditions to find the planet they might have come from." "The latter would be something of a waste of time," remarked McLaughlin. "Hunting one planet in the galaxy is like hunting one log of wood on Viridis." No one contradicted this. All had seen the galactic star clouds from outside planetary atmosphere. "It seems to me, speaking as an amateur in your fields, gentlemen," said Mitsuitei, "that the mere discovery of an intelligent creature in the Viridian fossil deposits would, on the basis of our present knowledge of the mechanisms of evolution, strongly support the idea that this world was stocked from others. I realize that our knowledge may not be sufficient to justify us in that conclusion. But it is certainly not great enough to justify any other." "You seem to have something there, Take," admitted Krendall. "If this thing does turn out to have room for a brain in its skull, I suppose the next ten conventions of the Interstellar Archaeological Society, or whatever you call it, will be meeting at Emeraude." "I shouldn't be at all surprised. So far, my profession and yours have not overlapped, due to a considerable factor of difference in the time spans covered. But it is just possible that we would be holding joint meetings, in the event you describe." "This meeting is changing from discussion to speculation," Lampert said drily. "I would be the last to decry the value of imagination; but actually we are as likely to face the need for entirely new hypotheses as the result of our work here, as to find support for any now in existence. I can speculate with the best of you, but for goodness sake let's not take any speculation too seriously. I don't really believe that some big-headed descendants of Ndomi's fossil are listening in on me right now!" Even Sulewayo admitted that this was rather unlikely, and the conversation turned to other matters until darkness fell. No one had trouble sleeping. The loud drumming of the rain on the metal roof meant nothing to field workers with their experience. If anything, the sound was soothing, giving a perpetual reminder that there was a roof. Such protection is not always available, in that line of work... The Felodon seemed to have lost its traveling propensity. Once more it went out into the utter darkness solely to get a meal. It accomplished this as quickly as ever, though its eyes must have been useless and the hiss and rumble of falling water drowned and buried any sounds which would have been useful in tracking. Back in the same lair, fullfed, it drowsed once more.  M itsuitei had been almost right in his prediction that the pit would be full of water. Only the fact that the land sloped a trifle -- they were not right on top of the little hill -- had saved it. As it was, several feet of water were in the bottom, and a good deal of mud had washed in from the two sides facing the edges of the crack. The other two, much better braced by deepreaching roots, had held firm. After some thought, Lampert used the little robot again. He started it at the bottom of the pit on the downhill side and drove almost horizontally toward the river. The two hundred meters of "neck" permitted the mole to emerge from the slope farther down. When it was withdrawn, a small 'drain hole was obtained. Several more of these were drilled, and the pit lost its water fairly rapidly. There was still the problem of getting into the crack itself, which of course would involve digging below the level of the drain holes. Lampert, using the same excavator which had made the pit itself, finally provided a fair solution by digging a set of ditches around the larger hole; and since the opening itself was quite well protected by overhanging trees, Mitsuitei had only drainage from the surrounding soil to contend with. Two hours after arriving, therefore. he had a relatively clear working space. The bottom of the pit was limestone, exposed by the complete removal of the overlying soil, some three meters square. Across it ran the crack, a trifle less than a meter wide, still packed with dirt. Everything was muddy -- limestone, projecting roots, and Mitsuitei himself. A slender log with branches cut to ten-centimeter stubs leaned against one corner, forming a rough ladder and giving entrance and egress to and from the site. IF The machinery which had done the original digging was at one side. Mitsuitei did not expect to need it again. He was now equipped with a hand shovel, and seemed about to use it. Lampert, standing at the edge of the pit, felt the incongruity, but managed not to laugh. "Are you sure there's nothing I can do down there with you?" he asked. "I'm afraid not. From now on I want every bit of dirt to pass under my own eyes." "Are you going to try to throw it all up here as you finish?" "No. That's the purpose of the extra pit area down here. I can get a long way down the joint, simply heaping the material on the rock. It's damp enough to pile quite steeply, too." "How far down do you think you can get? The crack's rather narrow to work in, and you have three and a half meters to go before you hit tuff. That's going to be rough shoveling. I still think you could use the machine safely for a little way further, at least." "No doubt I could, but I'm not going to. There's one thing I might use, though.' If you have another of those saws, such as the bonemen are using up on the cliff, I could widen this crack as I go -- cut steps, in fact, to help get the mud up to this level when I'm further down." "That's a good thought, but I don't have any other. If you really get far enough down to need it, though, I could fly up to get it. They were going to shift over to hand labor anyway." "All right. Of course, it will be some time before I get that deep anyway; maybe I won't need it today." He bent to his work. "But what do I do?" asked Lampert. "I can't go off to attend to my own projects, because String has to stay here to guard you. I can't get to the site where the others are working because I can't land there. I can't sit in the helicopter and twiddle my thumbs because I'll go crazy before the day is over." Mitsuitei straightened once more, and thought briefly. "Is there nothing in the geophysical line you could do within sight ol this pit?" he asked finally. "The saw and digging machine are not the only apparatus you brought." "That's true. I brought some seismic gear, though I didn't plan to use it quite like this. I might map the formations under this hill. The information will be usable, I should think, and the joints will give quite a calibrating job. It will keep me busy, anyway." "Just a minute!" Mitsuitei looked a trifle perturbed. "Does that mean you're going to set off explosives around here? I want the sides of this pit held up by something better than roots, if you do." L ampert chuckled. "No explosives," he said "This is a nice little gadget with a robot like the core sampler. It puts out waves of any type desired from any depth down to two hundred fifty meters -- a sort of subterranean sonar. You'll never know it's working. The wave amplitude isn't enough to feel." He turned toward the helicopter on the river bank below, and was starting to walk toward it when McLaughlin interrupted. The guide had heard the conversation, and his question was purely rhetorical. "You weren't planning to walk down to the flyer alone, were you, Doctor?" "Well, yes, as a matter of fact. After all, I won't be working; I can keep my eyes open as I go. You can see me for the greater part of the journey from here, too." Rather to his surprise the guide approved this argument, after a moment's thought. "All right. But please keep your gun in your hand as well as your head on a swivel. I'd prefer to have Dr. Mitsuitei come down with us so we could stay together, but I know how he'd react to the interruption, and I realize you're not a kid. Just be careful." Lampert promised; and the guide's manner had impressed him to the point where he was almost afraid to make the return journey, after reaching the flyer and packing his new equipment. He was rather surprised to get back to the site without being attacked, and McLaughlin's very evident relief at seeing him did nothing to ease his feelings. Hebegan to set up the machinery. This consisted of an assembly very small delving robot drawing a slender tail behind it, the tail wound on a drum which surrounded the control unit. A dozen smaller cylinders reposed in attached clips. "The attached borer," Lampert explained to the guide, "goes down to any depth I set, up to two hundred fifty meters. It can produce any of the three normal types of earthquake wave, singly or in any combination, with sufficient intensity to be detected at a range of over two kilometers in reasonably well-conducting rock. The small cylinders are detectors, equipped not only to receive and analyze the wave coming through the ground but to measure electronically their location with respect to each other and the main station. I can use as many of them as I please, up to the full dozen; but they can be planted only a little way below the surface. There exists equipment for getting readings at depths comparable to that of the transmitter, but I don't have it. As it stands, by spotting the receivers carefully I can get a pretty good picture of the formations for a radius of a kilometer and a depth even greater with ten minutes measuring -- and ten hours computing." "How far out do you plan to place these receivers?" the guide asked pointedly. "Well -- I hadn't made a detailed plan of that. I'd rather like to have them in radiating lines of three, the lines spreading about fifteen degrees, and the individual cylinders about two hundred meters apart." "And just how were you going to place them? I gather that someone has to walk the best part of four kilometers -- or do these things fly, in addition to their other abilities?" "Er -- someone walks. I thought IF perhaps, since you don't like the idea of my going alone through the jungle, that I might stand guard over Take in the pit while you set them out." "Hmm." The guide did not explode, to Lampert's relief. It had not occurred to the scientist that the job of wandering around a hole in the ground waiting for animals which never came might get a little boring to a man of McLaughlin's background. "Let's go over first and see how Dr. Mitsuitei is getting along. I guess you could stand over him with a gun for half an hour. Of course, the cover runs dangerously close to the pit. Maybe we'd better burn it off to a safer distance -- still, I guess that won't be necessary. You can stand out here where it's relatively clear, and see all the approaches to the pit. Something might jump in without your having time to hit it, and you'd at least see it and could get there fast enough to do any shooting necessary." They approached the hole and looked in. Mitsuitei was working busily. A fair quantity of earth lay spread on the rock, and some two thirds of the length of the crack had been excavated to a depth of perhaps a quarter of a meter. The geophysicist attracted the little man's attention and told him of the plan; Mitsuitei nodded and bent once more to his work. The Felodon was becoming restless. It could hardly be hungry as yet; but it was on its feet, snarling silently as it had when the helicopter first entered its ken. For perhaps a minute it stood; then, with the same air of determination it had shown days before and scores of kilometers away, it began to thread its way through the underbrush toward the river -- and the digging site. s #TTI stand where you suggested, A and never take my eyes off the pit," Lampert promised. "Then I'll come back to find you missing," replied the guide. "You're guarding yourself too, remember. Don't keep your eyes on anything. Keep them moving." He finished distributing the little cylinders in the various pockets of his outer clothing, and moved off in the direction Lampert had indicated. He looked back frequently, but each time saw the scientist alert. When the underbrush finally cut off the view, he refused to worry too much. Actually, McLaughlin had gone to considerable pains to make the jungles of Viridis sound more dangerous than they really are. His conscious motive was to make the inexperienced members of the party alert enough for their own safety. It was quite true that a man could be killed in quite a variety of ways in those rain forests. There was a distinct possibility, however, that he also wanted to impress them with the importance of his services. He did not, therefore, suffer much from anxiety during his walk, though on the other hand he wasted no time. He had, of course, only a rough idea of the distance he had traveled, though he was able to keep his direction with a small impulsecompass tuned to the seismic apparatus and forming part of its regular equipment. He dropped three of the cylinders at the required intervals, as nearly as he could guess, forcing each a little way into the ground as Lampert had shown him; then he turned at right angles, walked what he hoped was the right distance and started back toward the site, planting equipment as he went. Out again, in again; and the last of the dozen tubes was in the ground. Mitsuitei's shovel scraped deeper. Lampert, glancing up and around every few seconds, made minute adjustments to the controls of his seismic apparatus. Its little mole robot had started on its downward trip. The Felodon lurked thirty yards from the point where Lampert was standing, protected from his sight by the undergrowth and by one of the piles of dirt thrown up by the machine which had dug the pit. It seemed to be looking through the soil at the spot where the man was. The snarl was still on its face, but no muscle moved in its long body ft had been there for minutes without moving; it had frozen similarly when McLaughlin had passed it on his way out. Now it simply stood and waited. On a cliffside kilometers away, Ndomi Sulewayo gave utterance to the first profanitv Krendall had ever heard him use. They were on opposite sides of the block containing the fossil, so neither could see the other Krendall, naturally, asked what was wrong. "Don't tell me a bug got through one of these suits!" "Worse, if possible. I told you this foreleg -- " both had been carefully avoiding the use of such words as "arms" -- "was sticking out sideways, so that I was afraid we might have cut off part of it in digging the tunnel." Krendall nodded. "I remember. Did we?" "I don't know." "Eh? How come? I should think there'd be no doubt, one way or the other, if you have that much of the limb clear." "Well, I haven't. I got as far as the bone goes -- and right there I run out of tuff and into the limestone. If there's anything more, it's in an entirely different kind of rock, which is a trifle unlikely; but I'm going to have to check the blocks we cut from this part of the tunnel in order to make sure, and I don't look forward to the job at all." Krendall, properly sympathetic, came around to Sulewayo's side to look, and agreed that the search was necessary. The bone the younger man had been clearing ended in a joint of the type they had come to regard as typical of the creature's limbs; and this had occurred almost exactly at the surface they had left when first outlining the block with the saw. Sulewayo, with a grunt of disgust, dropped his tools and went out into the rain, where the blocks cut from the cliff had been piled; Krendall, nobly sacrificing his personal inclinations, went along with him. IF T he search lasted for a long time; for a long time, in fact, after it became evident that it was going to be useless, for the chance of a perfect specimen is not easily thrown away. Finally, however, Krendall straightened up with a sigh. "I guess we'll have to be satisfied with a restoration on one side," he said wearily. "I hope someone fifty years from now doesn't find another and discover that it's a sort of vertebrate fiddler crab, with one forelimb ending in a paw or claw something like five times the size of the one on the other." Sulewayo gave a gloomy assent, and the two went back to work in their respective tunnels. Lampert saw McLaughlin the instant the underbrush made it possible, a fact which the guide later admitted was to the scientist's credit. He had, of course, been eagerly awaiting that return, for the transmitter was down to its first set depth and awaiting only the word that all receivers were in place. He called eagerly the moment the guide came within earshot. "Everything down?" McLaughlin nodded. ' "Everything down, as nearly as I could tell the way you said. How long will the readings take?" "Only a few minutes. I'll take a couple of calibration shots from ten, fifteen and twenty meters depth; then ones at fifty, a hundred and so on down as far as the mole will go. The shooting takes practically hold us up." "What then?" "Well," Lampert smiled, "after that the usual procedure is to pick up the receivers and place them in a similar pattern in a new direction. If the field crew doesn't go on strike, we take the whole circle about the transmitter." "I was afraid of that," grunted McLaughlin, as he stopped by the machine. "Well, let's go." The two men bent over the controls in a silence broken only by the scraping of Mitsuitei's shovel a dozen meters away. Lampert pressed his shot button, and a light on the panel flashed white momentarily. Below their feet, unfelt, the pulse of sound energy raced outward, echoing from the walls of deepstriking joints, from the boundaries between rocks of differing densities or elastic constants, from the walls of caverns deep in the limestone; some tiny portion of the energy from time to time encountering and affecting one of the tiny receivers McLaughlin had buried. As each receiver gathered its bit of data, it retransmitted the information to the master unit; and everything was recorded on a single Long before a full second had passed, the first of the pulses had damped out as heat energy, and enough had been transmitted for the machine to obtain an adequate averaging record. The light blinked out again. Lampert nodded in satisfaction, and sent the mole downward once more. "Look, good. Now the next set," he remarked. A s that pulse of seismic energy went forth, the Felodon rose to its full height, almost showing itself over the pile of dirt which was now its sole protection from the view of the men. The snarl on its face seemed to grow fiercer, if that were possible. For just an instant it seemed tom by conflicting desires. But that was for just an instant; any tendency to flee was smothered before it could take full form. There were two men now to worry about, and correspondingly less chance for the opportunity it had been awaiting. But the opportunity came. For just a moment the guide looked down at the panel which was absorbing Lampert's full attention. In that moment a green-and-lavender streak flowed over the heap of soil in a single leap and vanished into the pit. It must have been timed and guided by the mysterious sense McLaughlin had mentioned. It could see none of the men when it leaped, yet it timed the act for the moment none were looking, and landed directly on Mitsuitei. The little archaeologist never knew what hit him. He died without a sound, and the killer, as though nothing lived anywhere in the neighborhood, settled down to its meal. In this it nlust have been disappointed. The chemicals in the clothing designed to repel Viridian insect were equally obnoxious to the carnivore, and it made no serious attempt to get through them. However, not all of the body was protected in this way... A second pulse went from the buried transmitter, and then a third, each from a point a few meters deeper than the last. Lampert's attention, of course, was centered on his controls. McLaughlin's eyes were once more sweeping restlessly over the surrounding landscape. Both heard the sounds coming from the pit, but neither interpreted them as anything more than the scraping of Mitsuitei's shovel. Neither, of course, considered them consciously. Their attention was finally attracted by something decidedly more noticeable. The Felodon did not -- or could not? -- remain at its meal for more than a few moments. Its apparent indifference to the other men changed once more to what seemed like an internal struggle. An observer would have been sure, up to now, that it was using its peculiar sense to avoid the sight of men with guns; but that hypothesis failed now. As Lampert started the mole robot downward once more, the Felodon leaped out of the pit toward the two men -- regardless of the fact that McLaughlin was facing toward it. M cLaughlin saw the fanged head emerge, and his reflexes took over instantly. A streak of flame passed beside the leaping carnivore, exploding into a whitehot blossom of blazing gas as it contacted the pile of dirt on the far side of the pit. The guide ducked and rolled frantically sideward as IF another spring carried the creature toward him. Claws raked the air past his shoulder, and he fired again before the roll was complete and without any sort of aim. Men and beast alike were spattered with white-hot droplets of metal from the seismic recorder as the second shot caught it squarely; and this seemed to be enough for the carnivore. Its next leap was away from the men instead of toward them. A geyser of steam and mud erupted beside it as Lampert finally got his weapon into action, and before the vapor had been beaten down once more by the rain the animal was out of sight behind the undergrowth. Both men sent several shots in the direction of the crackling bushes, but accomplished nothing except the felling of a tree or two and the starting of a bonfire which failed to make any headway against the rain. Convinced that the Felodon had gone, the men ran to the pit. Lampert did not even take time out to glance at the wreckage of his equipment. There was just enough distance to cover to let each one realize that he had' no idea how long the carnivore had been inside, and what the "scraping" sound might have been. Both slowed down as they approached the edge, not relishing what they expected to see. But this did not prove to be what they had expected. McLaughlin's face, already grim, turned gray as he saw that his first shot had not merely missed the animal at which it was aimed. The bolt had struck the pile of dirt which had been left by the digging machinery at the far lip of the pit, and scattered most of it to the four winds. Perhaps half a ton had slid back into the hole from which it had originally been removed. There was no telling, from above, what the Felodon had done to Mitsuitei. The upper half of the archaeologist's body was buried completely, and the rest so liberally sprinkled with dirt that it was not at once identifiable. The guide, using language strange even to the widely-traveled Lampert, leaped the three meters downward without bothering to use the ladder, seized a projecting leg and tried to draw the little man clear of the soil. Lampert, equally aware of the possible value of time but feeling that he would do little good with a broken leg, made the descent in the normal manner. By the time he reached the bottom, McLaughlin had succeeded in dragging Mitsuitei almost completely clear. Lampert started forward to clear the mud from the still hidden face; then he stopped, and his stomach abruptly heaved, as he realized that the face was not hidden. It was gone. Mitsuitei had removed the headgear and gloves from his protective suit for the normal reason -- to see and manipulate better. The exposed head and hands had formed the Feiodon's hasty meal. T he paleontologists saw the helicopter approaching this time, for they were working outside the tunnel. Between them on the ledge lay a block of stone some five feet long, two high and four wide -- over two tons of material, all told, which had been worked out of the hole rather ingeniously by the men. Partial undercuts had been made, rollers worked out of stone by the cutter placed underneath, and the undercutting completed along a plane which sloped slightly upward into the tunnel. Of course the block had run off the rollers once it was out in the open, and the men could no more shift it another centimeter than they could return to Emeraude without the helicopter; but at least it was more or less accessible by air. They were chipping waste rock from the corners when the flyer appeared. Sulewayo was first up the ladder, unburdened this time. They expected to have further use for the cutter. He noted that Lampert was alone in the machine, and promptly asked the question the geophysicist had been dreading. "Where's Take? We've found something for him!" "I'm afraid he won't appreciate it. He was killed a couple of hours ago by a Felodon." The news silenced even Sulewayo, and the expression on his junior's face actually startled Krendall when he climbed through the hatch. "Ndomi! What in -- " Lampert cut in with the same news he had given a moment before. Krendall reacted similarly; then slowly lowered himself into a seat. He did not ask for details. Both men could see that this was not the time to put such a question to the '# pilot, though neither realized then the personal responsibility that Lampert felt over the incident. Krendall pulled a small fragment of tuff from his pocket, and looked at it thoughtfully. Nothing further was said until the helicopter landed once more on the river near the "city." McLaughlin and the bundle which held what was left of Takehiko Mitsuitei were waiting on the bank, and  were loaded aboard without a sound. "It's early. We'll take him back to Emeraude tonight, and come back for your work tomorrow," Lampert said, and lifted into the air without waiting for agreement. "All right," replied Krendall, "as long as we come back. I don't think he'd have wanted us to stop. I'm going to find out about those green threads of his, too." Lampert nodded in approval. He had already formed a similar determination. For half an hour they flew on in silence. The Felodon, half submerged in swamp water a kilometer downstream from the hill, heard the helicopter hum overhead. It seemed totally disinterested. For just a moment its fanged head pointed upward, then settled back again. There was a burn under its jaw, which had been inflicted by metal spraying from the ruined seismic apparatus. It was more comfortable to keep it under water... "What was it you found, Ndomi, that you thought Take would want to see?" Lampert broke the long silence. "It was when we were undercutting to get the block out of the IF tunnel," Sulewayo answered. "Its just some more of his green threads, in the tuff below the fossil. I brought a chunk of the rock showing them -- here." Lampert nodded without taking his main attention from flying. "Maybe that fossil of yours was intelligent after all, then," he said. "It seems to have died under very similar circumstances to Take -- just above a set of those green threads. Maybe it was a member of a party like ours." "Maybe. It certainly walked erect. The whole body structure shows that. If its brain were large enough and it had some sort of manipulating appendage I'd say it was virtually human -- in capacity, that is. It was more of an amphibian anatomically." "You have the block out in the open. Haven't you been able to study the head and limbs?" "No, damn it." Krendall took over from his junior. "That was the big disappointment of the whole find. The specimen seems to be perfect except for missing skull and hands. Not a trace of either." The helicopter wavered slightly in its path, then steadied as Lampert forced his attention back to his job. No one said anything for a long time, but everyone was thinking. S omeone else was thinking too, but wasn't keeping his thoughts to himself. They were being spoken, and virtually dripped with the thinker's fury. "You sloppy, lazy parasites! I don't mind being stuck with a job and a deadline, even if it's a report that's due in only fifty years and needs about two hundred for a real conclusion. I'd sooner do it all myself than have some of you loose thinkers butting in! But if I'm to give my whole attention to it so I can produce something that won't be laughed at from here to b the Magellanic Clouds, how about some of you watching what goes on on this planet? I didn't know those creatures were poking around until they began cutting sensor lines! Thirty, the protective life we've bred on the surface was your idea; why didn't you put it to work?" The answering words tried to be soothing. "Thirty was working -- " "Dreaming, you mean!" "But I put one of the guardians on the job for him; it stopped the digging, didn't it?" "Sure, after a lot of damage had been done. Do you want to come out in the open and repair my wiring -- with those space travelers poking around? If they find you at it, the Council won't just laugh at us; they'll excommunicate us and let this new species of intelligence clean us out. Why did it take so long for the guardian to do anything?" "Well, I -- " "Well, you were dreaming too, weren't you. Blast it, you're here to do constructive thinking, not just to entertain yourself. Haven't you any self-respect? They actually dug out Sixteen!" "What difference will that make? He's been dead too long to mind it himself, and anyway his brain and sensor connections were decently burned." "But they wouldn't have had to dig much deeper to get someone who's not dead, would they, NinetyFive, my young friend? I suppose when they cut one or two of your sensors you decided it was time to do something. Don't interrupt! I'm talking! This planet is supposed to be a quiet place where people can expect to spend a decent number of centuries at a time thinking, without being disturbed. If you're too young or too lazy or just too stupid to do any real thinking yourself, at least you can devote a little time from your casual amusements to making sure that other people can . Shut up! You'll do some thinking now or find yourself in real trouble! Here's a problem for you to solve, and see that you solve it! "You will get my sensors repaired, making sure not only that you're not caught at the job by these space travelers but also that they don't realize it's been done. In other words, don't just neatly fill in the hole they made after you've finished. so they can't help knowing they're not the only intelligences on this world. I don't know when they'll be back any better than you do, so you'll have to guess at your own time limit. You can booby-trap your canyon with landslides or anything else to keep yourself from being dug out, but if you fail in either problem and either of us looks likely to be found I personally guarantee you'll be found in the same shape as Sixteen. Now get to work, and let me think. If you think you can get help or sympathy from anyone else on the planet, good luck to you." A wave of agreement spread along the countless miles of sensor wiring that extended through Viridis crust, but Twenty-Five didn't feel or hear it. He had already taken the myriad of tendrils that terminated his arms away from the mosaic console that formed the end of the vast bundles of greenish threads coming through the walls of his cave, and had settled back in his lounging chair. That report -- only fifty years to have it thought out -- his full attention went back to it. In the April Galaxy -- A Great New Science-Fiction Novel by Damon Knight On sale now -- get your copy today! IF # Novelette ) He began as a hero. Eons later and a universe away, he became instead a god! i ve come a long, long way to die alone, David Greaves thought as Defiance  tumbled through the misty shroud of Venus, hopelessly torn apart by the explosion in her engines. On the console in front of him, the altimeter was one of the last few meaningful instruments, and it told him there were only a few tortured miles remaining before the ship he had brought this far -- had spent his fdrtune in building when no government would yet consider risking a manned rocket on his flight -- would smash down to its doom on a planet no man had ever walked. Battered and tossed in his seat by the ship's crazy tumbling, Greaves tensed the oak-hard muscles of his arms and thrust himself up to his feet. He wasn't dead yet. He wasn't dead and, if the slim chance paid off, he'd still be present to laugh in the government's face when the first, safe, cautious official venture finally made its way across the emptiness between Earth and the Sun's second planet. Dragging himself irom handhold to handhold, his tendons cracking with the strain, he levered himself toward the Crash Capsule, forced open its hatch and pulled himself through, while the winds of Venus tore at the shattered hull and the scream of Defiance's passage through the murky sky rose to a savage howl. Outside the cloud-lashed hull there were no stars. Below, no one knew what sort of jungle, or sea, or desert of whipping poison sand might lie in wait. Greaves had not cared when he set out, and did not care now. If men had always waited to be sure, if all the adventurers of mankind had waited until the signposts had gone up, the cave bears would still be the dominant form of life on Earth, and races undreamed of might never know such a thing as man to contest their sway over the Universe. I'll live to see my share of that, Greaves thought as he pulled the capsule's hatch shut and dropped into the special padding that, in theory, would cushion much of the impact. Or else I'll know I tried. He tripped the lever that would flood the capsule with Doctor Eckstrom's special anesthetic -- the experimental compound that might -- just barely, might -- offer a chance.  A s the hiss of the yellowtinged. acrid gas became louder and louder in his ears. David Greaves thought again of the almost obsessive lengths to which he had gone in making sure that there would be such a thing as the capsule. The entire project -- the decision to build the ship, to sacrifice for it the personal fortune he had built up in his meteoric rise from obscurity to being one of the world's most dynamic and certainly youngest industrialists -- had been marked by his fanatical persistence and dedication. But that dream had come first, and the fortune second -- the sole purpose of his career, from its very beginnings when he was only another engineer test pilot, had simply been to accumulate the .means so Defiance could be built. But the ship had been three-quarters complete when he conceived the idea for the capsule. He could not even now remember exactly when or how he had decided that he must have some device aboard that would protect him from a crash and -- here was the vital thing he insisted upon -- keep him alive, no matter how injured, no matter how long might be necessary, until rescuers could reach him. For him to even think in terms of rescuers -- of depending on others -- was totally uncharacteristic. For him to divert a major portion of his dwindling resources from work on the ship itself, and push toward the elaborate design of the capsule, was, in some lights, again uncharacteristically foolish. But he had done it, and now... Now the anesthetic created by the man some said was a medical genius and some said was a quack had flooded over him. He could feel the first effect -- the calm, the drowsy peace. By the time the Defiance smashed into the ground -- very soon now -- his IF mm jjarife metabolism would have slowed to a carefully metered rate. It would take hours for his heart to beat once. To him it would seem as if each day was only a few minutes. The jagged nerve-flashes of pain would be only a faraway slow tingle; the blink of an eye would encompass hours of actual time, and he would lie here, safe, asleep, until the hatch was opened and he was taken out into the air, where slowly the effects would wear off. Meanwhile, there was more than enough gas compressed into the capsule's tanks to keep him perfectly relaxed for a hundred years. The valve -- a simple device he had sketched out in five minutes, as if the design had been part of his mind for years -- would continue to meter out the supply at the optimum rate and pressure. It was only now -- perhaps a hundred feet from impact, perhaps only a hundred hairs-breadths -- that he suddenly saw the flaw in the design. He struggled to reach the valve, in a useless reflex, for there would have been nothing he could have done, no matter how much time remained. Then he fell back, a twisted grin on his face. I've come a long , long way to frap myself, he laughed in his drowsing mind, as the ship crashed, and the capsule, torn from Defiance's side, rebounded like a cannon shell from Heaven upon the outraged soil of Venus, and the overhead clouds sprang into flamed reflection from the blast of Defiance's end. In the capsule, the valve controlling the flow from the illogically copious supply of anesthetic snapped off cleanly. David Greaves lungs jolted to the impact as a century's dosage of the high-pressure gas delivered its one giant hammerblow of sleep...Of sleep like death... Of sleep so slow, so majestic, that only the eternally ageless body might testify to life. Of sleep without end, without motion, until... II T he woman -- the sensuous ivory-skinned woman with eyes like dark jewels and hair like midnight framing her red-lipped face -- kissed him again and then drew back to touch his cheek. "Wake," she whispered softly. "Wake, sleeper." David Greaves looked up at her through slowly dawning eyes. The scent of spices was in his nostrils. As the woman's hair brushed his face again, the fragrance increased. "My name is David Greaves," he said, and looked up at the sky and then around him. There was now no envelope of cloud to hide the face of this planet from the Sun; no such shroud as had concealed the Venus of his day in dazzling white without and muffled it in somber black within. This sky was ruddy, ruddy with the light of the day's last moments, and the clouds through which the sunset burned were only crayon-strokes of ochre across the orange sky. He lay in state, facing that sunset, on some sort of black metal couch which supported him on a IF multitude of sweeping, back-bent arms. Beneath him, a dozen low broad steps of olive-green polished stone led down to a long forum, flagged with the same gold-veined, masterfully fitted paving... Around the court ran a low wall, again of stone; friezed, and burnished to a dull glow. From the wall, tall slim pillars thrust into the air. And atop each pillar, cast and carved in black metal washed by the lingering light, crouched a monster. No single artist could have created such a bestiary of gargoyles. Some he could trace in their evolution -- the vulpine, the crustacean, the insectile. Fangs and pincers slit the cool, invigorating breeze that flowed over the court. Antennae quivered and hummed in the air, and a myriad legs were poised in tension, forever prepared to leap. Others were beyond any creation he knew of -- limbs and wings contorted into shapes that had, undoubtedly, been taken by living things... in lives unimaginable to any man. And all of them, imaginable or not, faced toward him forever. At the foot of each pillar, mounted in a cresset on the wall at its base, burned a torch. And so, when night fell, then the shadows of all these monsters would be cast upward onto the stars, and he would lie sleeping in the pooled light of the torches, while all around him these creatures stood watch. How many nights had he lain here? How many centuries to wash the fog of sleep out of every nook and cranny of his lungs, when each breath might take a thousand yean -- ten thousand? B ut he was not done with studying his surroundings. He had heard sound when he turned his head. Now the sound was a rising murmur as he lifted his shoulders to look down the length of the court of monsters toward the far end. There were people there. They had been seated on stone tiers that rose up toward a collonaded temple. There he could see an altar through the open sides and, on that altar, a flame that burned bright and unwinking against the outline of the lowering Sun. The people were rising to their feet. From them came an openthroated murmur that became a cry of savage joy -- of unbearable tension finding release. "Who are they?" he asked the woman as he sat up and felt his body stretch with power cramped too long, as he squared back his shoulders and peered through the twilight in the court of monsters. "Your worshippers, David Greaves," she said, standing beside him among the many arms of his couch. "The people whose last hope you are." She added softly: "My name, though you did not ask, is Adelie." She paused. "I, too, am one of your worshippers. Wherever there are human beings, throughout the Universe, you are worshipped." He looked at her more closely. There was a lift to one black-winged eyebrow that was less reverent than a god might like, though a man could have no quarrel with it. She stood gracefully on sandaled feet, dressed in a single white garment girdled around her waist by a belt made of the same metal in which the monsters were cast. He saw that the clasp was shaped into a profile of his own face. And he saw from the wear that it showed that it was old -- older than she could be, older perhaps than this court. This... shrine? He wondered how many priestesses had worn that belt. How many of his priestesses. He frowned and got down, feeling the touch of the day-warmed stone on his bare feet. He was dressed, he saw, in a black kilt and nothing else. He returned his glance to the worshippers and saw that the men were dressed similarly, and that the women wore flowing, calflength, translucently light robes like Adelie's. There was motion at one corner of his eye, and he turned his head sharply to see the arms of the couch sweeping down, folding and bending against its sides. Now he saw that he had been cradled in the arms of a great black metal beast. It crouched atop the dais. Its head was bent supplicatingly, bright oily metal barely visible at the joinings of its mechanical body. He glanced quickly up at the monsters atop their columns. "Are they all like that?" he asked Adelie. An old man's gruff voice answered him from the other side of the beast-couch. "They won't spring down to devour you -- you needn't be afraid of that " Two men came into view, one old, one young and very slim. The old one rapped the couch with his knuckles. "This tended you in your sleep. It is made in the shape of the most ferocious race that ever rivaled Man. It is now extinct -- as are all those others up there, for the same reason." The thin young man -- very pale, very long of limb -- stretched his broad, tight mouth into a smile that covered half his face without mirth. "Not the most ferocious, Vigil." "Your kind will learn about that," the old man snapped. "Not from you and yours," the slim man said lightly. Greaves turned to Adelie, who waited, poised, while old Vigil and the young man quarreled. "Tell me the situation," Greaves said. Adelie's lips parted. But the old man interrupted. "The situation is that you have been awakened needlessly and would best go back to sleep at once. My daughter and these fanatical sheep -- " he waved an angry arm at the standing worshippers -- "have forced me to permit this. But in fact Humanity neither needs you nor wants you awake." "Oh, on the contrary," the young man said. "Humanity needs its gods very badly at this hour. But you are only a man, not so?" Greaves looked from one to the other -- the leather-skinned old man with his mop of ringleted white hair, the young one who was human in appearance but somehow claimed some other status. "Who are you two?" "I am Vigil, your guardian, and this is -- "  IF "I am Mayron of The Shadows," the young man said, and he held himself as carelessly as before, but his face looked directly into Greaves's. "See my eyes." There was nothing there. Only darkness speckled by pinpoints of light; thick, sooty darkness like oil smoke, and sharp lights that burned through it without illuminating it. "Mayron that was First of Men," Vigil said bitterly. "Mayron that is First of Shadows," the empty-skinned thing replied proudly, and began to weep great, black tears that soon emptied it, so that the skin drooped down into a huddle on the pave and a black cloud in the shape of a man stood sparkling in the dusk before Greaves. "Mayron that will again be First of Men, when all men are shadows. Mayron that is already First of many men. And which of us is a god, David Greaves?" A delie's face glowed with excitement. Her red lips were parted breathlessly. The crowd on the tiers had loosed a great, wailing moan, which hung over the court of conquered .monsters as the first stars became visible on the far horizon. Greaves took a deep breath. He could feel his body tensing itself, the muscles rippling, as though his hide needed comfort. "Which of us is a god, man?" Mayron repeated softly, his voice coming from the entire cloud. "What is it you can do against me, you whose entire virtue rests on doing nothing?" "That would depend on what was expected of me at this moment," Greaves said. "This moment?" Mayron chuckled. "At this moment, nothing." "In that case, get out of my court and come back when there's something to do." Mayron laughed, throwing his head back, the laughter high and insolent. "How like a god! How very like the real thing." Greaves frowned. "If you were a man, once, you might remember how that feels." But the laugh had bothered him. "Oh, I remember, I remember. And tomorrow we fight, man." Laughing, Mayron bent and picked up the skin he had discarded. He crumpled it by the waist in one fist, and brandished it negligently at the worshippers. They shrank back with a moan of horror as he strode toward the far wall. At the wall, he flipped the white, fluttering thing over, and as a cloud passed through the stone. Perhaps on the other side he put on his human form again. Greaves could not tell. The sun was down, and only a little light glowed on the far horizon. The torches guttered in the court of monsters, and the worshippers were hurrying up the steps, out through the temple and away. Ill G reaves, Adelie and Vigil stood beside the beast-couch. "All right," Greaves said. "Now there are things I want to know, and I want no quarrels, Vigil." # "And by what right do you order me around?" the old man growled. "You may be a god to some, but you are not my god." "You owe it to me, atheist. If I was awakened today, at this pat moment, I could have been awakened before. I wasn't. You kept me asleep, guardian, when I could have been free as any other man. So you owe me." The old man grunted. "You're brave with Mayron and brave with me. But all men are brave, each in his own way. We need no gods." "But you have one." Adelie touched his arm. "You have lived from the beginning of human history. And you were a great hero. That much the legends tell us. You were braver than any man, and for your bravery, you could not die. While other heros conquered the stars and, in their time, died, you lived on. While enemy after enemy was beaten by Man, and the victorious men died, you lived on. The stars and all worlds became ours. Men loved and begat, and men died, but you lived on. It seemed to us that as long as you lived, all men would have something to remember -- how great Man is; what the reward of courage can be. It seemed ' only fitting that we should bring to you the trophies of our achievements. It seemed only right to believe that you had survived to some purpose -- that a day would come when Man wo.uld need his greatest hero." "Precisely," Vigil snorted. "Man worships nothing but himself. You were a convenient symbol. It did no harm. It may have done some good. Of course, the chuckleheads took it all literally. And so -- thanks to Man's stupid persistence in breeding idiots as well as men with some brains, you, whoever you are, whatever kind of filibustering bravo you actually were, have become the focus of a cult populated by the credulous, the neurotic and those who profit by them. I hope you are grateful for your legacy!"' Greaves looked up at the stars. There were some constellations that might have been the ones he knew, distorted by his transit to another viewpoint... or by time. He was no astronomer. Vve come a long way , he thought, and I wonder what the end of it will be. "Those who profit from the credulous, hmm?" he said to Vigil. "I am your guardian and I guarded you. As many others have done before me, from various motives. This is not your first court, nor your tenth. The ritual around you is compounded from thousands of years of hogwash, as witness my worshipful daughter who inherits a post from some time when every venturing hero had to have a leman patiently awaiting his return. My duties no doubt were originally medical. But the couch has been attending to that -- with some exceptions -- for centuries. And you may be assured, Man's history has not been one unbroken triumph, nor his civilization any steady upward climb. But we built while you slumbered. I had thought to prevent your besmirching Man's greatness with your cheap legend." IT "Or perhaps he was afraid of the god he denies," Adelie murmured, her eyes glowing warmly. Greaves looked from her to her father. "So she believes in me and you do not," he said to Vigil. "But it may be you're not entirely sure -- and from the looks she gives me, it may be she isn't, either." He grinned crookedly. "Man may have climbed, but I assure you he hasn't changed." H e smiled at the looks on both their faces. Divinity was new to him, but humanity was not. If these two had thought perhaps they had some dull-witted barbarian here -- the one for his faith in his faithlessness, the other for her pleasures -- it had been time their error was corrected. "Old man, god or not I have been called out... whether it pleases lay me down to sleep again until  think it's time. So you had better tell me what all this is about, or I will blunder around and perhaps break something you're fond of." Adelie laughed. Vigil swung his arm sharply toward hfer. "This -- this would-be courtesan was once Mayron's great love, when he was First of ns all. Because he could find nothing to conquer for her in all the Universe, he began dabbling beyond it for a worthy prize. And he found it. Oh, he found it, didn't he, my child?" "Be careful, Father," Adelie spat. "The worshippers follow me now that I've wakened him as promised, and you -- " "Quiet," Greaves said mildly. "He was telling me something." "That I was," Vigil said angrily, while his daughter's look at Greaves was the least sure it had ever been, "and for all the need you have of it, I might as well not. But if I may say it once and get it safd, I can then go to my meal and the two of you will be free 'to amuse yourselves. Mayron discovered the Shadows, when his machines touched some continuum beyond this one, and the Shadows ate him. But like the fox that lost his tail in the trap and then cozened other foxes with the lie that it was better so and fashionable besides, Mayron made a virtue of his slavery. Those who give themselves up to the Shadows never rest and never hunger. They know no barrier. And no love. No true joy. No noble sorrow. An untailed fox is safe from catching by the tail. A Shadow has no spirit, no humanity, no -- soul. But there are always dunderheads. Mayron has them, and down in that city of hit down there -- " the old man waved a hand at the horizon, but all Greaves could see from where he stood were the glowing tops of what he took to be three fitfully active volcanoes -- "he has a city full of dunderheaded shadows who go to some temple he has built and enter the Shadow chamber to be changed. The admission is easily gained; the price of freedom from human care is humanity." "And up here," Greaves said, "other dunderheads come to gain what in exchange for what?" "Gain at least some sort of af# firmation at the cost of remaining men!" the old man growled. "If they are simple, at least they are human! And even an intelligent man can see the value in what is embodied here." "As witness yourself. Yes." " didn't want to wake you! We know enough so you could have been awakened centuries ago. But to what purpose? To turn another hooligan loose to upset civilization, and lose the symbol of that precious thing? When Man himself can rescue himself? But, no, this one, this supersition-ridden tramp I wish I'd strangled in her cradle -- she stirred the worshippers up, she arranged the combat between yourself and Mayron, she -- " "When and where?" "What?" "This fight Mayron and you have both spoken of." "Tomorrow at noon. In the city. But there's no need for it. Tomorrow Mayron dies, and the other Shadows die. You can watch or not -- as long as you stay out of the way." Greaves looked at Adeiie. "Your daughter, Vigil, does not look much impressed." "Impressed! Impressed!" The old man was very nearly dancing with rage. "I'll show you! Come with me." Vigil turned without looking back and pattered rapidly down the steps of the dais, his calloused feet slapping indignantly on the time-buffed stones. Greaves frowned after him. Then he jerked his head to Adeiie. "Come on," he said, and they, too, walked quickly down the length of the court of the conquered monsters. And for the first time since their creation the pillared gargoyles did not have to bear the sight of Man. T he scent of Adelie's fragrance was in Greaves nostrils again as they followed the old man through the temple, past the altar where the eternal flame burned bright enough to sting. He said nothing to her. She volunteered no words of her own. But she walked close enough to brush his thigh with hers. Greaves smiled appreciatively. Vigil led them to a small chamber in one wing of the temple. He flung open the door with a clatter of bolts in a concealed lock, and pointed inside. "Look -- the two of you. It's not just Mayron who can dabble with machines. For every clever man, there is another just as clever." A gun of green metal was mounted on a pedestal in the center of the chamber. Slim and graceful as a wading bird with one extended leg, it poised atop its mount and sang quietly of power and intent to kill. The friezed walls of the chamber hummed in harmonic response to the idle melody of the gun. Greaves felt his hackles rising unreasonably, and he very nearly growled with outrage at the sight of it. "Tomorrow at noon," Vigil said in a high, triumphant voice, "the weapon will be swung to point through that window and down upon Mayron 's city. And when it is done, there will not be a single Shadow alive down there." IF Greaves walked to the window in the chamber's far wall and looked down. But it was dark below; nothing to mark the outlines of a city as cities had been in the time he remembered. The temple apparently stood atop a high hill, with the city in a great valley at its foot, but again all Greaves could see were three glowing mountaintops across the way, and, beyond them, the night sky. Then suddenly one of the volcanos flared for an instant, and the few overhead clouds reflected redly down into the valley. Greaves caught his breath. The city had emerged black and immense, extending for miles, its lightless towers like the spine-bones of a beast half-eaten and rotting in a tidal pool. Then the light was gone, and once again there was nothing visible down there -- if the undead beast had chosen to bestir itself and stealthily move on some errand of the night, no one standing here could have known until it was too late. "So that's the city of the Shadows," Greaves said. "The city that was once the First City of Man," Vigil said bitterly. "That Mayron has made into an outpost of Hell. Where no man dares live; where they say that those with Shadows, once they were in sufficient number, dragged women and children into the Chamber of Shadows so that their men, heartbroken, joined them when their Shadow-children returned to plead with them." "And this gun of yours is going to do what to them?" he asked. "Kill them." "I know that. How?" Greaves stared at the old man through narrowing eyes. "A beam of power, made of the stuff that spins within all things -- the pure force of this continuum." "You mean this thing is some kind of particle emitter -- an electron or photon gun?" #vur science need not convcern itself with crudities like names, barbarian. This gun was made as a song or a poem is made -- in the mind of a man who dreams weapons where another man might dream bridges... and when the gun finds its fruition, tomorrow when Mayron expects no mightier enemy than you, then the beam will sweep that city, and when it stops Mayron's city will be a tomb for empty skins. And Man will build another First City, and those who fled shall have a place again, and -- " "Who built -- who dreamed -- this piece of ironmongery?" Greaves growled. "Who was the poet -- you?" "Yes! Why not? Do you think because I am an old man -- " "A heedlessly spiteful one who hasn't stopped to think." "Stopped to think! Look!" Vigil seized the torch at the doorway and lifted it high. "Did you think I wasn't sure? That the weapon has not been tested?" Now Greaves could see why the gun sang rather than rested in quiet patience. A Shadow hung against the far wall, supported by its outstretched arms, its hands sunken wrist-deep in the stone. And though it jerked its legs and struggled feebly to be free, the hands remained trapped. Under the sound of the idling gun, he could distinguish a quiet, thin, whimpering. Adelie laughed softly to herself. Vigil crowed: "He cannot move -- what little strength remains to him is needed for bare existence... if I were to touch that control -- "The weapon is at its lowest setting -- it has incomparably more power than that; it has the power of all the Universe in it -- and look what it can do when it is barely tapped in to its source of power!" Greaves rumbled in his throat. Suddenly the gun's song was more than he could stand. He barely seemed to move, but Vigil had time to shout, the outraged cry beginning to echo in the chamber when suddenly there came the snap of rending metal, and a choked stammer from the gun. And then Greaves had the gun in his hands, completely torn from its pedestal. He threw it out into the night in a bright flash of fire that bathed them all in a thunderclap of light. Greaves stared after it, his teeth bared, the horrid sound of his hatred still rumbling within him When that had dwindled, leaving him with his heavy chest heaving for air, the trapped Shadow had vanished, no doubt to tell Mayron that Humanity's godling had gone insane. Adelie was very pale. Vigil was trying to speak. And that from the old man was enough .to bring back the first n scarlet edge of the fury he had turned on the gun. "Close your mouth!" Greaves commanded him. "I have to go fight Mayron tomorrow, and I don't want another word out of you. Go find something useless to do. Adelie, I want a bath, some food and drink. Right now!" IV D uring the night, he asked Adelie: "I'm supposed to fight him with my hands, is that it? Or with simple weapons of some kind? And this will prove to the worshippers all over the Universe or to the Shadows that either my or Mayron's way of life is right?" "Yes," she said. "And you are very strong. I'm sure you will win. I was sure when I suggested it to Mayron. He's so completely confident -- I knew I could trick him into it." Later, he asked her: "Tell me -- was there a famous weapon poet in First City?" And he took her hand, not letting go of it. When she asked him, once, hesitantly, why he had broken the gun, he answered honestly: "Because it seemed hateful." And other than that, they said very little to each other during that night, and whatever they did say had about as much truth in it as all the things they had said or he had been told from the first moment of his awakening. He did not sleep. For one thing, he felt no need of it. For another, he was frightened. He did not want to be a Shadow... IF In the morning he had forgotten fear. Steps led from the temple to a pathway that wound down toward the city. He stood for a moment at their head, with the altar burning behind him, and then stepped out into the morning, with Adelie and Vigil folowing. There were people waiting out there. They lined the path, murmuring among themselves. As he strode along they fell in behind him, leaving behind the temporary shelters they had put up when they fled from the city and took refuge here. "Sheep," Vigil snorted as he padded through the dust beside Greaves. "All right, let them see you brought down. I'll make another gun -- if your stupidity hasn't robbed me of the time I need -- and then they'll see..." "I'm sure that if I lose today, Mayron will give you all the time you need. Maybe he'll even send that same Shadow poet back to you with whatever story you'll believe this time." "What -- ?" Vigil stammered. "What did he tell you? That he would create the gun for you because he hated the Shadows, even though he was a Shadow? Did he tell you how he remembered how fine it was. to be a man? Is that the story you believed? You simple, credulous murderer! And you repaid him by testing it on him. As he well suspected you might. It's not only humans who can be brave. Or sacrifice themselves for the ferocity of their race. Or were you too busy taking Humanity's name in vain to ever consider that? You never dreamed that gun. Not you -- you may be foolish, but you don't hate this Universe." Vigil was blinking at him. "What -- ?" Adelie laughed. "Last night, father. He asked me about weapon posts. There's no use trying to lie out of it." Greaves smiled at her. "That's right. I asked you, and from that moment on you knew I was cleverer than Mayron thinks. But you never got away to tell him that, did you? You know," he said thoughtfully, "you'd better hope I win today. Mayron won't be too fond of you if I give him any more shocks." Adelie grinned. "I thought of that. But if you win, he dies. And if you die... ?" "You will have had your glory anyway? You will have engineered the battle of the gods, and dabbled in other pleasures, too?" Greaves was still smiling, but Adelie's eyes grew wider. "Maybe it'll be that simple, Adelie. But who can tell the minds of gods, hmm?" And so David Greaves strode into the city of Shadows, followed by a fearful multitude and two badly shaken people. He walked down a broad avenue at whose end something black bulked and glimmered, while things with black-filled eyes stood watching thin-lipped. And as he walked he showed none of his fear. H e stopped at the end of the avenue, with the tall towers looming over him, and stood facing the Temple of Shadows. There was IF no sign of life in the square black opening that served as a door for the featureless stone block, dark but not as dark as a Shadow. He threw back his head and called: "Mayron!" The worshippers huddled around him. Vigil, like them, was throwing anxious looks over his shoulders as the city's Shadows crowded closer. Adelie murmured: "There he is." And he was, trotting lightly down the steps, smiling. He wore his human skin as naturally as if it were more than a cloak, and Greaves had to look hard to see that when he smiled his lips stretched but no teeth showed. "Well, Man in all your pride. Are you ready?" "Ready as any man. How do you propose to go about this?" "Adelie didn't tell you?" "She told me as much as I asked. I didn't ask much. Could you suggest any way I could have refused the conditions, no matter what they are? That loses the fight right there. Wasn't I supposed to understand that? Do you think politics is a recent invention?" "Fierce, fierce," Mayron murmured. "Well spoken." He chuckled. "When I was a man, I would have liked you." "Get to the business, Mayron." The Shadow held up his hand. "Not so fast. Perhaps we can arrive at some -- " "Arrive at nothing. Put up or shut up. Vigil no longer has that monstrous gun and there's no point in this for you today. But there is for me, and you don't have much time to realize that." He glowered at the Shadow, feeling the rage, feeling the onrush of the bright white exaltation when the body moves too fast for the brain to speak, when what directs the body is the reflex founded on the silent knowledge of the brain's deep layers, where the learning has no words. Mayron frowned. I-fis head was cocked to one side. If he had had eyes, he would have been peering at Greaves face. But he said nothing; he had lost the moment, and now Greaves used it. "You scum," Greaves said, his voice booming through the Temple square for all the Shadows to hear. "A weapon that drains the power of this continuum! You leech -- you would have had that doddering old man put all my stars out!" And now the moment was at its peak, and Greaves screamed with rage, so that the faces of the towers were turned into sounding boards and the shout crackled in the air like thunder. He jumped forward, one sweeping arm tossing Mayron out of his way and flailing for balance, while Greaves sprang into the Temple and charged the Chamber of Shadows. A nd now the fear -- the great devouring fear that came like fangs in his belly but did not stop him. Now the fear as he burst through the acolytes and into the black, light-shot sphere that quivered at the focus of Mayron's machine. And he stood there, feeling the suck not of one voracious universe but many -- all the universes that had eaten the overcurious Mayron and sent back a Judas goat in his skin to conquer what belonged to Man. Feeling the icy cold, and the energy-hunger that could suck Man's Universe dry and still leave a hunger immeasurable. But the rage -- the rage that came to him, that came to the god uncounted generations of men had made while David Greaves lay sleeping but his deepest mind lay awake, feeling, feeling the faith, knowing the splendor of what Man had done -- The rage that could make a god, that could give a creature like David Greaves the power to create, to dream a man -- to make a David Greaves who would lie waiting, ready to become a god... That rage went forth. And in parallel continuums of life unimaginable, the dawn of Apocalypse burst upon suns unnameable and worlds unheard-of -- upon all the universes which were the true Shadows. The god who was David Greaves again, when the rage had passed -- that image which Man himself had made stood blazing his fury in the Chamber of Shadows, and the Universe of Man was free and safe. But in the places of the Shadows there was no hope, no joy, no place of refuge. Mankind was come forth, and galaxies were dying. One last snap of the fangs -- one moment when the death-spurred Shadows almost had their greatest prize of all -- and then it was over. Greaves turned and strode out of the blasted Chamber, and the acolytes cowered, covering their eyes, not yet realizing that once more they had eyes. D avid Greaves appeared on the temple steps, and began walking slowly down, his legs shaking with exhaustion. Adelie watched him coming toward her. Around her, Shadows that had once been men were men again, but at her feet Mayron lay without his skin, and though her father had fled, she did not dare go without learning what the look on David Greaves' In the next issue of IF: Beginning An exciting novel of tomorrow's frontiers A Relief story by Keith Laumer by Brian W. Aldlss And many more! IF  Short Story All panhandlers ask for dimes -- but this one had a very special purpose! T he subway train announced its arrival with a screech of grating steel. The man was shoved from the car onto the platform by the eight p.m. crowd. The noise and the abrupt handling of his body brought him to awareness. Not that he had been asleep or unconscious. Although he might have been. He didn't know for sure. He found it hard to concentrate, but soon a sign over the platform came into focus: It meant nothing to him. The second thing he became aware of did. Another train had replaced his, and directly in front of him was an army of people, dispassionate towards everything but its one objective -- to get on. They came at him all at once, forming a pushing, elbowing, cursing, jarring mass of humanity. He glanced off one to collide with another. He escaped the punishment by a lunge to one side which ended with a crash to the cold cement floor. He regained some semblance of steadiness on his feet and looked at the sign. It was still Westboro. It still meant nothing to him. He was lost. What was worse, he couldn't remember where he was lost from. He turned to walk, he didn't know exactly where, when he smashed into a little boy eating an apple. The boy reacted in a strange manner. "Leave me alone, you dirty man, you the boy said. He dropped his apple and ran off. Scared. The man flushed with embarrassment, but the boy's remark made him look down at himself. He saw a dirty man. Filthy. His white shirt -- it had been white once -- was torn at the elbow and was covered with grime, his shoes at the toes were white where the black polish had worn completely off his pants reflected no evidence of ever having been pressed and the right leg was ripped from the knee down. Two girls in their teens passed and giggled. He was aware that others had noticed him. "Hey, lookit the bum," a fat jollyrover called out to his three on-thetowning cronies. "Bum," the man thought, and reached to his back pocket. No wallet But not long ago he had one, he was sure, because the feel of its absence was there. Somebody must have taken it, or he might have lost it. In that crowd or on the subway or before... He couldn't remember where he had been before. The feeling of not remembering seemed familiar, and he tried hard to think. But there was nothing static in his mind that he could hold on to. His mind wasn't blank anymore, it was a jumble. He somehow recalled he had been looking for his money. He fumbled through his other pockets. He found a dirty handkerchief and two cents. The feel of the coins brought everything back. Quickly he felt his pulse. It was slower than he had ever known it to be. Sure, there were times before when... but then the doctor always had been nearby. And this time, the most serious time of all -- he looked up at the Westboro sign -- he was lost. Perhaps, up on the streets, he would recognize something. He began to take the stairs at a run, but his breath came too hard, and he walked the rest of the way to the turnstile. The arm caught tight as he started to go through and a sharp pain want through his groin. "That's the way you go in, pal," somebody offered, and the man winced at the few laughs he had drawn. He saw the exit sign and walked quickly toward it. The night lights were just ahead as he collided with a woman loaded with bundles. They spilled. "Sorry," he said, leaving her to her indignation, and at a faster pace he walked outside into the cool night air. H e had stopped walking and was leaning against the door of the Inn of Six Horses, which proudly displayed its name and namesakes in blue and white neon. He had recognized nothing. He had tried getting to the doctor's by cab. but no driver would listen to him without first seeing the fare, even though he assured them all that he could get it from the doctor. A policeman had told him to move along or suffer the consequences of a thick nightstick. IF A drugstore proprietor had answered his request to use the phone by threatening to call the policeman with the thick nightstick. A dime. One dime! He remembered his Shakespeare. My kingdom for a... horse? Six horses. Maybe, just maybe, at the Inn of Six Horses... A short man at the bar, composing one half of the clientele, was calling the bartender's attention to the fact that the six horses outside outnumbered the customers. "Go to blazes," the bartender commented on the short man's observation. "I should," said the short one. "Then George here would be Uncas, the last of the Mohicans, riding your six old white stallions." "How do you know they're stallions?" George said. He was lean, mean and weary, looking as if he had just returned from a hard day of peddling vacuum cleaners. The door banged shut and three pairs of eyes focused on a dirty man. "Here comes a touch," said Pete. "Please," said the man, his voice shaky and weak. "Before you go into your act, pal," Pete said, "understand this: Nobody gets nothing free here, this ain't no mission or nothing. This is a business like any place else." "A real thriving business," mocked Shorty. "Please, a dime, I need a dime, that's all I -- " "A dime?" George laughed. "For what, a cup of coffee? This is a high-class place. Beer costs fifteen cents here." Shorty joined in with a snort. "Maybe he wants to call his girl." "I need the dime," the man said, leaning on the bar for support. "A matter of real life and death, huh?" George said. "Yes. Look... here, I have two cents, you take them." Pete looked suspiciously at the two coins. "We don't sell nothing that costs two cents." "You take the two cents, but give me a dime. Please " "Sharp businessman," noted George. "This is rich," said Pete. "Do you really expect to buy a dime for two cents?" Shorty said, "He just noticed how well you're doing. He figures you can afford the loss." "Boy, it burns me up," said Pete. "These professional bums make more in a week than I see in a month." "You keep talking that way, and this clown will want to buy your business for the two cents," Shorty said. "Ain't worth it," George said and banged his glass down. "Fill it," he directed Pete. As Pete turned, the man made a lunge for George's change on the bar. "Watch him," warned Shorty. George needed no warning. He had seen the man eying his money, and he had hoped for just such a move. With a right fist to the side of the man's head, George took revenge for a bad day's work. The man lay very still on the floor.  V admiringly. "You could have killed him like that." "He sure ain't doing much moving," said Pete, coming around the end of the bar. "I'd better take a look." "Man, I didn't hit him that hard." "Well, man , he sure asked for it," said Shorty. "And me and Pete will be right here to tell the cops that the guy was a crook and tried to rob your money. Right, Pete?" "George, this guy's got no pulse," Pete said. "Watcha gonna do, George?" Shorty said. "Just shut up and wait a minute," Pete said. "I think he's trying to say something." The man's eyes pleaded with each of the three. His lips quietly formed then message: "Dime." "Wow, talk about persistence," said Shorty. George looked at his change on the bar. He picked up a dime. "Hey," said Shorty, "what are you doing?" "Shut up," said Pete. "George's money is George's money. What he does with it is his business." "Look," George said, "I didn't mean to hit you so hard. I mean, I hit you so hard my whole hand hurts. So here, you can have the dime, i won't miss it" He pressed the dime into the man's hand.    "Holy cow," said Shorty. It was the first sound any of the three had made after the man had left, fifteen minutes before. George stared into the mirror behind the bar, seeking some mighty truth in his own reflection. "He says... he says Unbutton my shirt, and then..." George fondled some coins in his hand. "Then he takes that crazy dime, a plain old, regular, crazy dime..." Pete poured himself a Scotch. "What kind of guy is it, anyway," he said, "who walks around with a slot in the middle of his chest that he puts dimes into?" "Yeah," said George, "and who condition. Price # Fine to mint condition; complete April # (Vol. I No. #) to # -- #st # years # fine to mint condition. # #. "Seven Worlds to Conquer" (Burroughs novel). Complete excerpt from Argosy -- back to Stone Age. # #. "Resurrection of Jimberjaw" (Burroughs novelette). Excerpt from Argosy. # #. "Carson of Venus" Burroughs novel from Argosy -- excerpt. -- # Astounding, Galaxy, Wonder, etc. Send your want list. All orders F.O.B Brooklyn. New York. #I #th Ave. Brooklyn #, N.Y. IF F  Novelette The Enemy had a secret. Every courageous man would find a way to , steal it, no matter what it cost his conscience -- or world! T T he ship went down staggering on a lopsided stilt of fire, among the rugged foothills of the Lunar Urals. of the bands crossing the exhaust -- which showed that the cause of the trouble was a resonance instability, apt to shake the entire vessel to bits like blows from a vast hammer -- the engines went on firing after a fashion till one of the landing legs touched on an outcropping rock and tipped the ship over. It crunched like an eggshell and the engines died, leaving its pilot stranded but alive. Not that that made much difference. He had about twelve hours' oxygen in his suit tanks and a liter of fortified liquid in his nutriment reserve. But he was lost, he was some hundreds of kilometers from the nearest American base, and he was not even sure that he had been watched down by the radar there. For a while he occupied himself with petty things -- salvaging what instruments had survived the crash, SI hunting for any oxybottles not broken open in the crash, soaking inflammable material in the fastdrying liquid from the hydraulic shockabsorbers in the hope that he could fire a beacon when someone came to look for him. He considered climbing a nearby peak to set up a radio and try to beam a line-ofsight signal, but had to concede that even if he got up far enough for the extra height to be useful he would use more oxygen and might not have enough to get down again. He could stay with the ship, and that was that. Within an hour of the crash, he was learning that he was very much afraid to die. Not ours But all are " now as we are" Others to rescue No one else knows exactly where in thousands of square kilometers Suffering follows awareness if we leave him Agreed impossible but do what Avoid contamination There is the cured one cured?) Compulsion misliking constrained to act consent H e waited on the crest of a steep rock, able to see over the jagged local ground to the smoother-seeming plains beyond. He was not well used to exposed lunar conditions, and the stark blacks and were maddening; so also was the fact that it he did not move rather often his suit's heat-transfer devices overloaded, and if his feet were in his own shadow they began to prickle with cold, while his shoulders and scalp perspired. He did not mind loneliness very much. He would never have been entrusted with single-handed lunar ferry flights if he had shown any sign of breaking down from mere isolation. But once the extra factor of approaching death entered his mind, he found it gnawing at him, rat-wise. To die so much alone, with not even a sight of Earth to comfort him -- that was the intolerable part of it. He could die when he chose, or when he had to: crack the suit, or wait for the oxygen meters to hit zero. But he had to die. Four hours of waiting, then five, then six, and he was beginning to break. He could feel himself going, like a piece of fatigued steel; he knew he must not, should rather endure to the eleventh hour and beyond, and yet his control slipped away until he began to whimper involuntarily. Enough of that! He put his mind to singing, and telling himself stories; to reminding himself of friends; to reassuring lies about the excellent chance of being spotted. But it was very difficult. Whenever he let his attention wander, he felt the black despair encroach on him like tides eroding a cliff. He had endured eight hours, and was uncertain whether he would meet his inevitable end as a sane man or as a mindless, broken thing, when he saw the stirring of dust across the plain which indicated the passage of a lunar tractor. IF He imagined at first he was deluding himself. But when he clambered down from his rock and fetched the telescope which some Navy-minded bureaucrat had decreed be included in the emergency kit of the ship, he saw that the tractor was real. Moreover, it was headed directly for him. He could see few details owing to the reflection of the sun on its highly polished snout, but that in itself showed it was aimed for where he stood. If it had been travelling at an angle to him, it would have been splashing up enough dust to hide its sides. N onetheless, thinking pure chance might have brought it in this direction, he hurried to fire his beacon. Turning on the tap of an oxybottle, he ignited a few scraps of what had been his acceleration couch and made a bright blaze until the bottle ran dry. The tractor-driver had seen him. light flashed -- Morse letters forming the international reassurance sign, l-C-U. He felt himself go limp with relief. He did not realize until some moments had passed that he was babbling happily, and that if his suit radio had survived the crash he would have made the oncoming driver think he was rescuing a lunatic. How close would the tractor be able to come? Between him and the comparatively level plain lay some three kilometers of irregular ground, creviced and hummocked, over which no tracked vehicle could pass at more than snail's pace. It would help greatly if he could make his way to the edge of the plain, he thought, and began to scramble forward, no longer needing to remain close to the conspicuous wreckage of the ship. At this range, the bright orange fabric of his suit would stand out against the darker rocks. He was so occupied that he failed to notice when the tractor passed the edge of the plain and kept coming, over rocks and hummocks and crevasses, without slackening speed. Only when he paused before tackling a particularly difficult patch, and looked up to see how far he had got, did he realize that the tractor was not what he had assumed. Out on the dusty plain, of course, it had splashed dust up just as a tracked vehicle would have done. Now it was on hard ground he could see what he would have deduced anyway from its ability to tackle broken terrain. This wasn't a tractor from a Western base. This was a Russian "moon-walker," tramping on four padded feet exactly like a mechanical camel with an oyster perched on top. Its slab sides bore the Soviet red star. mind. Automatically, as he struggled to digest the knowledge of his fate, he found his fingers leaping towards the cracking valve on his suit. But for the long hours of waiting, in which he had found he was afraid of dying, he would have decompressed then and there, and made the rescue journey useless. Only he checked himself. He could live. IF He would live. And the hell with everything else. He was twenty-nine years old and that was too young to waste the chance. T he moon-walker stopped a hundred meters from him. Below the oyster-like pilot compartment a door in the slab side slid back, and the legs folded to bring the threshold to within a few inches of the ground. More than a little enviously, he stepped inside. The door gave into a small compartment that served as an airlock. It cycled quickly, and before he knew what was happening the floor was pressing against his feet. He was lifted up into the pilot compartment through another sliding panel in the ceiling of the lock. "Hullo," said the pilot. "I am very glad to have found you in good time." He did not even remember to crack his suit in the first moment of shock, although his outside pressure gauge showed one atmosphere and the pilot was unsuited. For the pilot was a woman. Everyone knew vaguely that the Reds made a fetish of sexual equality. But he had never imagined for a moment that they might send a woman out alone on a hazardous trip to rescue a foreign pilot. She had short-cropped dark hair around a rather long, fine-boned face; her complexion was sallow but her eyes were big and liquid, and her teeth were superb. She wore a standard undersuit of olive-green with rank and technician's badges he did not recognize. Ideas flashed through his head. Possibly he was the first westerner ever to go aboard one of these moon-walkers. Down in the slabsided compartment beneath his feet there was alleged to be a dompact fusion engine which was a jealously guarded secret, and then there was the question of automatic preadjustment to changes of level in the ground, which was baffling many investigators; a woman could be overpowered and the moon-walker directed to the nearest Western base... The pilot pushed a control home and locked it with a turn to the left. There was a slight lurch and a turning sensation, and the machine swung back on its original course in the reverse direction. "Please -- open your suit," the pilot said. Her voice was low and pleasant, and her accent good. Then she gave a sudden shrill, nervous laugh, and checked herself as if she were in a state of extreme tension. "My name is Olga Solykin, and I am more glad than I know how to say!" "Uh -- " Well, no harm in giving his name. "I'm Don Bywater. Thank you for -- well, saving my life." Something was askew. Suppose this situation were reversed. Could anyone imagine missing the chance to inspect the wreck of a rival spaceship, laid out and opened like a corpse at an autopsy? Yet already she had turned the machine around and by now -- to judge from the view through the excellent ports -- it was making thirty-five k.p.h back towards the base. Not a thought, apparently, for the ship. Cautious, he cracked the suit at last. The air was sweet and good after his own canned supply, which was partly recycled and never completely free of his own body odors. "Come, sit down!" the pilot insisted, patting the vacant co-pilot's chair. "Are you well? Are you hungry, thirsty? Were you injured in the fall? Were you not very lucky?" Why was she so eager -- almost as though she had not seen another human being for months? Her eyes were bright. Her voice tended to shake on occasional words, with what Don could only presume to be excitement. He glanced round the large cabin, noting the usual semipersonal touches -- the painting of Lenin, the photograph of Yuri Gagarin, the bust of Maisky-Artemov standing on a little ledge next to a package of moon maps. The stabilizing equipment was fantastic! Listening hard, he could faintly discern the hum of a gyro somewhere, keeping the cabin dead level no matter what kind of ground the moon-walker was scrambling over. B elatedly he began to peel off his suit. He said, "No, I wasn't hurt, thank you. I was very lucky. The whole of my acceleration unit came away in one piece and I was still in it when it hit the ground." "I'm so glad!" the pilot cried. She turned and felt along a shelf under the exiguous bank of controls; the machine was obviously completely automatic when bound for a known destination. She produced a large box of candy and some packs of cigarettes, and offered them to him as he sat down. He was so taken aback he forgot that it was probably bad to show that he was impressed by anything. He said, "You can smoke on board?" "Oh, yes, if not more than one person does at a time. I do not smoke, so please, you smoke if you like." She urged the cigarettes towards him, checked the movement and stripped away the cellophane wrap with frantic fingers as though panicking to be of service to him. The tobacco drugged? The candy poisoned? All the scores of stories which had been poured into his mind since he was a child came back to him. Anyway, he did not usually smoke off Earth, and rarely even at home. But his nerves were shot to pieces, and a smoke would certainly be soothing. If there was anything funny about the smoke, he told himself, he could throw the cigarette away after the first puff. There was nothing wrong with it at all. It was very good, aromatic Balkan tobacco. Although it burned rather quickly in the oxygen-high air of the cabin it was soothing and welcome. "And a drink, yes?" she invited. "To celebrate the saving of your life? I brought you food, vodka, all I could find, and the candy for you, and the cigarettes -- you have not been in one of our moon-walkers before, yes? Or you would not have IF asked about the smoking of a cigarette !" She laughed again, the sound coming hard and harsh from her full-lipped mouth. "Has anybody from my country?" he countered bitterly. What was all this about, anyway? Some elaborate Mata Hari trick? "Not even by now?" She seemed disappointed. "It is being so long, I hoped that -- well, it is not really so long, I guess. Well, you will like to see all of it, then. Shall I show you how it is?" She leaned towards him, over the side of her chair, her face bright and her tongue going once from left to right across her lips. A tentative conclusion jelled in Don's mind. This woman -- or girl, maybe, for she was no older than himself -- must have been condemned to some isolated post for a long tour of duty. It was exactly the kind of thing that fitted with all the halfauthorized rumors one was always hearing, even more here on the moon than back home, because here was where the competition was fiercest. And the stress of loneliness must have made her mentally unbalanced. How else to explain her weird behaviour? Claiming to have brought him candy and cigarettes and vodka -- he was no psychologist, but as guesswork it certainly fitted. He said, not without some nervousness, "Later. In a little while, if you like." Not to arouse any suspicion, that was important. To jump at the chance of inspecting the works of the moon-walker might be fatal. The trick was to be friendly as long as possible, to find out where he was exactly, to get an idea of the controls of the machine, and then to overpower her and walk it to the nearest American base...   quired, as casually as possible. "I was too busy fighting the controls to take a fix as I came down." Well, that was true enough. She jumped at the opportunity. Flushing a little, she put a finger on a switch before her. A previously dark screen on the control panel lit up with a set of grid-lines and a pattern of radar blips. The grid lines moved visibly, in time with the motion of the moonwalker. Don tried not to look impressed again. "Here, you see!" the girl said. "It navigates partly by dead-reckoning, partly by sighting on the stars. All is automatic now. We are here, and here are the Ural Mountains in back of us, and this red star in the center, that is this moon-walker, you understand?" "And you can -- uh -- steer it by hand if you have to?" "Oh, yes!" She showed him how. She showed him the inspection hatch of the fusion engine, and the neat stabilizer which kept the cabin level -- it turned out to be a bowl of mercury with hundreds and hundreds of tiny electrical contacts around the sides, from which a computer drew information about the vehicle's attitude, extrapolating to find the most probable correction the mechanism would next have to cope with. Don followed her explanations with mounting excitement; it seemed there was nothing she would not simple pleasure of talking. In the back of his mind, he was calculating. It would be best to take over the machine after about a couple of hours on board, before they came too close to its home base, but not so soon that her suspicions would not be lulled. Then he could easily locate the nearest American base. There were rather few in this region, for it was mainly a Soviet preserve. And then he could... "Ah!" she said suddenly, and cocked her head. They were looking down through the inspection hatch over the forward radar, watching the ground-scanner weave back and forth on the far side of a pane of tough glass. Don felt a stir of alarm. "What is it?" he demanded. "We are coming in at my base. Listen!" "We're what?" Pictures of a dozen wasted chances flashed through his mind. "But -- why so soon?" "Oh, you mean why if we are so near where you crashed did I come so long after you fell down? Why, there was much argument for and against to rescue you." She gazed at him with almost ridiculously melting eyes. Suddenly she thrust out her hand and snatched his, squeezing it briefly. "I am so glad they decided it must be done!" "They?" Don stared wildly towards the cabin ports. Yes, it must be true. The machine was marching in between two low cliffs, towards a dark, over-roofed aperture; then it was in the shadow with the suddenness of a light being switched off, and the engine's note changed down to an idling buzz. But if this woman hadn't gone crazy from isolation, then what -- ? He pulled his hand away. "How many people are there at your base?" he demanded. "Oh, many, many! Ninety, a hundred. But I have been so alone for so long!" There was a noise from below -- first, air hissing into an oversized lock, then the hurry of footsteps. Dazed, he said, "Alone? Are you crazy?" "With no one to talk to, yes, I have become nearly crazy!" she asserted, nodding her dark head frantically. "They do not talk, you understand! They do not give me a single word!" So she was a lunatic. And he was trapped. Don made a dash for the front of the cabin. But just as he was forming his intention the helmet and shoulders of a spacesuit appeared on the platform under the cabin which had previously lifted him from the airlock below. He was too close to stop himself. All the newcomer -- a stolid-faced man with big shoulders -- had to do was trip him. He measured his length on the deck. His forehead hit the base of the pilot's chair, and there was long darkness. IF in H e awoke painfully, with his head aching and his eyes blurred, in a room that might well have been at any of the moon-bases he knew. Starkly furnished with bunks and one table, plus some lockers and shelves on which were microfilms, a reader and some recording spools, it was about as homelike as a fallout shelter. He had a little delirium for a while before he regained full consciousness. He could not tell whether he actually saw, or only imagined he was seeing, Olga's face above his own, very pale and worried. He was confused, unable to decide whether the crash had been a dream and he was really in one of the American bases, or whether he was dead. When things finally straightened out, he found that Olga was there, on a stool beside the bunk, watching him with terrible intensity. When he opened his eyes, she seemed to break suddenly. "You live!" she cried. "You are well! How wonderful!" Memory came flooding back. He could not tell if it was wonderful to be alive; or not. He lifted hesitant hands to touch his forehead. There was a tenderness, but nothing more, to show where he had knocked himself out. Gently Olga guided his hands away, and swabbed the patch of bruised skin with something cool and wet that diminished the pain. She had barely finished the brief task when there was a rapping sound from the far wall. She got up and took the three steps necessary to reach a sort of window, beyond which a stout middle-aged woman with an expressionless face was making quick pantomime gestures. As he rolled his head on one side to follow Olga with his eyes, Don saw her draw out from below the window a sliding compartment like those used in drive-in banks tb protect cash being paid over. From it she took a charged hypodermic. Once more the mishmash of tales about hypnotic drugs, secret poisons and ruthless espionage techniques flooded into Don's muddled mind. But he was as weak as a kitten and could not resist as the needle was pushed expertly home. "It is good," Olga said apologetically. "It is for your health, you understand." Don closed his eyes. Some hours went by between sleeping and waking. On two occasions someone came and went at the curious sealed window, and signalled for Olga to go to the drawer below it. The first time she took out some thin broth steaming in a tin bowl, and spooned it into Don's mouth. The second time she took out food for herself. By raising his head a little Don was able to see that a faint violet glow pervaded the box, which disappeared a moment after it was opened. Sterile? Presumably But -- what for? It was not until the embarrassing discovery that Olga was not going to leave this cramped cabin for any purpose whatever, even the most private ones, that he began to think back over what she had said. The others would not speak to her. She was alone among nearly a hundred companions. Why? Surely she could not simply be insane, because then she would not have been trusted to drive out alone and fetch him from the wreck. He said, "What goes on? Please tell me! Why will no one talk to you? Why am I shut up with you like this when there are so many other people?" Olga clasped her hands before her in a kind of parody of delight, drew up her little stool near the bed and sat down close to him. She said, "Oh, it's marvelous to talk again! Even in a foreign language it is good! You know, I have come to where I have made recordings of my own voice and played to myself so as to remember what it is like to hear, and listen." "Why?" Don persisted. "The others are not talking now. I am the only one who is cured." D on closed his eyes. This was too much. One sane person in a base full of lunatics? "Poor friend Don," Olga said, laying her hand on his. "It is all hard to understand, isn't it? Here is the beginning. Several years ago, in Soviet Experimental Biology Station of Raznoyansk, is discovered strange symbiotic virus with some affinity for the nervous system, especially the brain. They give it to some monkeys, and they get very intelligent, amazing! Then they go mad. But so intelligent it is wonderful. I saw some of them who learned to use tools, who could even talk a few hundred simple words about food and working. It is decided by the great scientist Bielov, director of the bae, that he will experiment on himself, for it seems the virus increases mind activity. Changes readings on the encephalo -- " She stumbled, stressing the syllables oddly, and got it right the second time. "Encephalo-graph, yes." Don listened passively. 'All this was a long way from the moon. "So in secret he infects himself with this virus that we call a resonating virus. It seems to respond to nervous activity as a sounding board to a tuning fork, do you know? As an amplifier. "Now I was apprentice -- student, yes -- with Bielov. One evening I am working with a friend, Dvoriov, in the laboratory where we have monkeys, and Dvoriov suddenly cries out that Bielov will kill himself! Bielov is not there. He is at his house half a kilometer away, outside the station. But we go, because Dvoriov insists, like a crazy man, do you understand?" She was getting violently demonstrative. The words poured from her, with wild gestures to emphasize them. "And he is taking poison, laid on his bed with a note by him! From half a kilometer Dvoriov knew . And that was when we discovered it was true, what Bielov said in his last note. This virus can create telepathy." Don almost sat up. Only a stab of pain from his head made him IP fall back. Telepathy! With a tool like that the East would -- "So all of us who had in any way been infected, Dvoriov, myself, many many more as well, were brought here to the moon, to this secret base, to work upon the antidote. We think we have it. We think so because it was tested on myself, and for many months now I have been well, and have not suffered to be able to read a thought in another mind. And that was what was given to you. This was why Dvoriov wore a spacesuit when he came into the moon-walker to us. Although I am now cured, perhaps, I still carry the virus, can still infect others. But I am sealed up here in the one room because I am the control study. It must be learned if the virus will one day die out in my body, do you understand?" Painfully, Don worked it out. Yes, it hung together. He could have been infected by Olga as an immune but a carrier, and had been given the antidote, so was now an immune carrier himself, and... he had to get out of here! If he could just walk out, that would be enough to take the secret of the miraculous virus with hirti. Or was this all a big lie? O lga was going on, but he was scarcely paying attention. "Now all the others, you see, think together, and talk no more. I must talk again. Oh, I have been so alone since I was cured! Soon, when one year and a half is finished, and if I am still well, there will be more cures. But here it is a long way from other people, and our supplies come by automatic rockets and by robot vehicles And all of us are of high intelligence, so perhaps the others may not after all want to be cured. They work together on many problems." Don seized on that one. Telepathy would imply -- perfect espionage, perfect teamwork in research, limitless things! "When you fell down in your ship," Olga hurried on, "it was much argued whether to rescue you. It was dangerous. But it would not have been possible to endure the knowing that you were dying, do you understand? Better to save you. Better also because without company I would go mad, and though I have no longer power to receive thoughts all the others can hear me distantly as they heard you." Once more she clasped his hand. It occurred to him that he would probably need a friend in the enemy camp. He returned the pressure. It wasn't difficult. In spite of her mannish haircut and her rather disturbing eagerness to talk, she was attractive and female. Vague plans for exploiting these facts crossed his mind. In alarm, he checked them. It had just struck him that if he could be "overheard" at the distance of the crash, he could be overheard similarly and more easily now. What a fantastic situation to find himself in! "So you will help me to keep my mind well," Olga was saying, "and this will be good for the others, and also you will be a control for the antidote, because if you do not begin to have telepathy it will prove it also immunizes, as well as cures. It is turning out so well!" she finished rapturously. "What is it like to read people's minds?" Don demanded. "So strange it cannot be explained. It must happen to you. Blurred. Confusing. Sometimes frightening. Worst and most difficult is when you are awake and near a person sleeping, for dreams are not logical. Almost they are insane. That is why now everyone here sleeps at the same time; we have our own artificial time, and all sleep from midnight to eight hundred hours. This is by hypnosis, that all go to sleep and wake up together. No other way is possible." Click! Don tried to keep the thought unverbalized, at least, so as to reduce the chance of it being picked out of his mind. He said, "And -- are they listening to me all the time?" "No, no! Much work is done, and they concentrate hard. I -- or now you as well -- we are like a little noise in the corner of a room. It is there, but you can forget it. To hear the tick of a watch at night, when your wrist comes near your ear, is easy, but after you wear the watch two days, three days, it is ignored, you understand? So with the mind you are not interested in. With many minds, it is much more difficult, for it is what you would call louder. Stronger." So he could allow himself to think that it would be possible to escape as soon as he was well enough, when the ninety or a hundred telepathic people here were all fast asleep together. And hypnotically prevented from waking up for eight hours. IV I t was logical that they should become lovers. The confined conditions plus Olga's desperate hunger for maximum companionship saw to that. Don had no particular objection, except first that it seemed obscurely like treachery to have so much pleasure from it, and second that he could never help wondering whether there were eavesdroppers. There were regular deliveries of food, usually by the same middleaged woman he had seen bring the hypodermic with the antidote just after he woke up. It seemed that that could have been automated. But it gave an opportunity for visual inspection of the control subjects, of course, and according to Olga that was why it was attended to personally. Twice a day he and she both had to offer a drop of blood from a finger to be taken to a lab somewhere else in the base. She did this skilfully for herself and for him, and he noted -- not knowing whether it was important, but taking everything in that he could -- that the sterilizing ultra-violet did not play inside the sliding box when something was passed out of the room as it did when something was passed inward. Aside from that, Olga talked. Months of pent-up conversation IF flooded from her. Childhood memories, descriptions of what it was like to be infested with the resonating virus, funny stories, accounts of books she had read and shows she had seen, word-portraits of people here at the station before they became as they were... Don closed his mind to it firmly, as he had been taught. One could never tell when insidious propaganda might come through the harmless-seeming words. The other people in the base might as well not have existed except as shadows beyond the sealed window, appearing like the figures on some ancient mechanical clock at stated hours, going through their routine and vanishing again. But there was a world outside, and there was a secret of tremendous importance which he alone of all Americans possessed and which, if humanly possible, he was going to take away. H is watch had survived the crash, and still worked. The base was apparently run on an arbitrary time -- perhaps that of some Russian meridian -- but it was easy to establish when the official "midnight" fell; two-forty a.m. on his Greenwich-set watch. Disciplining himself with every technique he had ever been taught, he acted quite well enough to convince Olga within a few days that his gratitude for being saved from death had evolved into a genuine affection for her. It was unkind, he knew. But there was a deadly rivalry between west and east, and unless the secret of telepathy was shared it might be the long-feared decisive advantage which would give the enemy (the enemy since before Don was born, although there had never been a war in all that) the effective victory. Then, measuredly, he began' to make himself depressed and restless. The natural effect 'of being cooped up gave him a basis to work on. Soon he was snapping and complaining with convincing vigor while she wrung her hands and demanded what she could do. After a couple of days of that, he delicately broached the idea that they ought to be allowed outside, to save them from claustrophobia setting in. So what if it were not permitted? Was anyone to know if -- just after midnight -- one of the moon-walkers was taken out briefly, and returned before anyone woke up? Horror at the idea fought in Olga's mind with her boundless desire to please her companion and not to be condemned to renewed loneliness. She voiced objections. Don disposed of them smoothly. He was enough of a technician to get around the alarms if she knew where they were. There could not be many, because all the telepaths would be in hypnotic sleep. It would be impossible to wake just one of them because of this difficulty with insaneseeming dreams picked up from sleeping minds... Three days' argument produced the admission that there were no alarms or indeed locks to prevent Olga leaving her one room. There had just been no reason why she should, until now. She had wanted to keep the experiment perfectly controlled. After over a year, Don countered, surely enough evidence had been gathered! On the fourth night, he won his point. H e had never been so excited in his life as at the moment when she timorously activated the remote control for the big lock through which the moon-walker entered and left the base, and sent it hurrying and scurrying over the plain as if anxious to get quickly away from the base where everyone slumbered, and all the alarms had been temporarily restored to their normal "daytime" setting. It was lunar night outside. To the radar senses of the moon-walker that made no difference at all. At a steady forty-k.p.h. clip it headed out across the black plain under the frozen stars. At his request, she showed him how to operate all the controls. Directly she had done so, he closed his fingers gently on her carotid arteries. As she fainted, he chuckled to himself. He felt extraordinarily proud as though he had given her a much-needed lesson in absolute devotion to duty. He had been a little ashamed of himself for not cracking his suit when he saw he was being rescued by the enemy, and again when he found himself tempted to treat Olga with real tenderness. But he had well and truly made amends for his weakness now. He bound and gagged her with strips torn from her clothing and placed her comfortably in the copilot's chair. Then he studied his location. He had done some heavy thinking on the problem of navigation, and he was fairlv sure he could strike straight across the plain towards Mrs. Rafferty's Pass -- that all-important gap between steep mountains which an irreverent spaceman had named. Beyond there, he would be in line-of-sight radio range of more than one American base, and could take his pick of the nearest. ft would be a long haul. But traffic in the lunar night was very sparse, and with a fusion engine under him the range was virtually unlimited. He occupied his time on the long trip with dreams of the glory awaiting the man who captured not only one of the fabulous moon-walkers, but also the incredible secret of the telepathic virus. When the eggheads set to work on that one, things would really blow off Imagine the lovely expression on Soviet faces as they learned of the loss of their secret weapon! He noticed eventually that Olga had recovered. He had expected her to struggle against her bonds, splutter foolish nonsense behind her soaked gag. But she did not. She merelv twisted her head and looked at him. For some reason, he could not meet her gaze for long. He distracted himself by feigning cheerIF fulness which was not altogether sincere. He said, "Sorry, Olga, honey! I'm afraid I never was the type to be romanced away from the call of duty. They teach you a lot about loyalty in the Service. Some of it sticks." She said nothing. How could she, efficiently gagged as she was? Yet somehow a sort of deflating message seemed to reach him from her. As it might be put in words. Don't count chickens. It didn't fit with his future plans, and he ignored it. He said nothing else directly to her all the time it took the moonwalker to reach Mrs. Rafferty's Pass and come in range of an American base. As luck would have it, the first one he contacted was on a war footing. They made him stand by for six hours while they verified his identity by satellite relay half around Luna and made sure it wasn't a Soviet trap. But they relaxed their over-cautious manner once they had men swarming over the machine and inspecting its mechanism, and in another hour or two he was in the presence of the base commander and pouring out his message. Again, the commander was suspicious. But at length Don convinced him, and the application of a syringe of disinhibitor to Olga produced evidence to back him up. Within two hours more he, Olga and a heavy guard were on their way to America Base One, the nearest equivalent to a city anywhere on the moon, for ferrying back to Earth. He had a wonderful time impressing the guards with the resourcefulness whereby he had captured the moon-walker. The telepathic virus was of less interest to them. Machinery they could see working. Viruses were a cold in the head. Still... On this trip, Olga was not gagged, only handcuffed to a stanchion, but she said nothing at all. She merely went on looking at Don. Sometimes she smiled, and he didn't like the smile at all. So he tried not to look at her. It took the better part of a day at America Base One to establish his claims to the satisfaction of the egghead staff. There were hasty conferences with the topmost brass; there were plans laid on for a vicepresidential welcome and other suitable rewards for Don Bywater. And suitable treatment for Olga was likewise arranged. "Congratulations!" said the base commander briefly, as the ferry to Earth was being fueled and raised on the launching ramps. He shook Don's hand briefly. Photographs were taken for the record. V S omewhere along the line, some wires seemed to get crossed. When the ship had settled at Nevada Main Port there was quite a crowd. It cheered as Don emerged, waving, straining a little against full gravity, but not as loudly as might have been. The vice president waited at the edge of the field for the buggy to fetch Don across. Don went down to the little open vehicle with his personal escort. Then they brought Olga out of the ship. The cheering rose to a noise like Niagara. Disgusted suddenly with the whole business, Don had to make room for her in the buggy's back seat. But to his amazement she was smiling, even at him, and with some sign of real pleasure at the welcome arranged for them. The driver turned the buggy around and drove at a suitably slow pace across the concrete toward the vice president, the cameras and the press. "Tell me, Don," Olga said in a voice bright with false cheerfulness, "did you ever stop to wonder about some things?" "What?" Don was lost in worrying about what might happen in this ghastly situation, and about his tarnished glory. "Why Bielov killed himself, yes? And why it was necessary to take all of us to the moon and close us away from the whole world?" Don felt a block of ice form around his heart. "Think!" Olga invited brightly. "All on the moon at our base were clever, sensible people, high intelligence, trained scientists. All infected. Not .deliberately, by accident. For them, life is difficult but not bad... More were infected than are there now, but it was clearly necessary to insure that the stupid ones, the untrained thinkers, were excluded. We know a lot, over our side of the world, about people in the mass. You also should know. People have lynched and rioted here, do you understand?" Don stared at her numbly. She turned and inspected the waiting crowd with a bright, hating look in her eyes. "Yes!" she said, and gave a nod. "People in the mass react strangely. They make less than the -- what is it in English?" "The sum of their parts." The gravelly voice was Don's own, but it took him a while to recognize that he had spoken. "That is correct." Bitterness colored Olga's words. "I think perhaps I was sane till you exploited me -- for loyalty, as you said. Now... perhaps not. But I think there is a good number of people here, enough to form well a mob " Don's mind seemed to have congealed now. To stop the buggy? To stand up and scream a warning? "Possibly there are some people here who dislike your vice president. Political people are easily hated." Olga smiled a little crazy smile. "Do you think it would please the crowd if I persuaded the leader to kiss me, the pretty girl who has been brought to see error of her ways? Who would not know what loyalty means? You should know, Don." P erhaps the antidote in the carriers' bodies had made the virus more efficient at the business of infecting others. The crowd took ten minutes to become the mob Olga had predicted; within days it was the hemisphere that was infected, and in two weeks, the world. IF IF  Feature H ave you ever seen a nematode? Probably not -- and for the same reason people, especially in the season of the mortarboard, the graduation watch, and the platitudinous valedictory, can't see the profusion of new frontiers all around them. We don't mean the New Frontier of foreign policy. We mean the ones worth dedicating a life to, capcitement, discovery and accomplishment. Do you really think there aren't many of them around? If there were, you might be saying, why can't you see them? Have you ever seen a nematode? Listen: If all the matter in the universe except the nematodes were swept away, our world would still be dimly recognizable, and if, as disembodied spirits, we could then investigate it, we should find its mountains, hills, vales, rivers, lakes and oceans represented by a film of nematodes. The location of towns would be decipherable, since for every massing of human beings there would be a corresponding massing of certain nematodes. Trees would still stand in ghostly rows representing our streets and highways. That was written in #, in a report to the Department of Agriculture, by one N. A. Cobb, who apparently did discover a frontier, and who was followed by more nematologists -- but never enough. It has been estimated that these amazing critters cost the farmer -- and you -- want to organize a safari to hunt nematodes, get yourself a shovel and step over to the nearest grassland. In the top inch of one square yard of topsoil you can bag twenty A nematode is an eel-like animal seldom more than a twentieth of an inch long. It has a well developed nervous system and elaborate organs, and in one form or another it thrives in hot springs, Arctic ice and your own treasured personal plumbn ing. Trichinosis is caused by nematodes; so is hookworm. Among the many astonishing things about this little marauder is his -- well, let's call it chemical radio. T here is one nematode which lives exclusively on tomato plants and its close relatives. It lays its eggs and encapsulates them, and neither rain nor snow nor heat nor gloom of night has the slightest effect on this capsule. Nor time -- at least, not much. If no tomato rootlets appear in the nearby soil, the capsule will lie there dormant for years on end. But as soon as the right plant sprouts, pop goes the capsule, the eggs hatch and nematodes swarm to the attack. (They don't all hatch, by the way; having apparently bought an insurance policy, the nematode leaves a percentage of the eggs unhatched in case of crop failure. These can resist everything the capsule could, almost as well, plus temptation. No matter what, they'll await another season.) The especially interesting thing about this is the chemical "signal" sent out by the plant, and the nematode's reaction to it. It isn't anything as gross as, for example, an acid which dissolves the capsule. It's a trace chemical so dilute that it's indetectable by any but the most advanced lab techniques. The capsule isn't opened by it; it opens itself when it gets the "message", and it's so sensitive that it will only respond to a healthy, new fast-growing rootlet. If the root is growing at a rate of ##ths of an inch a day it will then be left alone. Such a plant is weak and may not live. But if its growth is #I #th of an inch a day, pop goes the capsule. The chemical that brings this about is called a root "diffusate." Hold on to that. The nematode has its enemies; prime among these is a tiny threadlike fungus. When no nematodes are present, these (there are several species) grow their fine tangled threads quietly through the topsoil like many others. But in the presence of nematodes, the fungus -- goes hunting! In a very brief time, the innocuous threads begin to manufacture traps. Some make flypaper, some fishhooks; the most amazing of all makes a closed noose. Should a nematode put his head in the noose, it snaps closed -- in less than one tenth of a second! Now, wha triggers these traps is contact. What causes them to be made, however, and be ready in time is -- you probably guessed it -- a diffusate. So sensitive are these fungi to some trace chemical exuded by the nematodes that, if grown in a nutrient dish to which one drop of water in which the nematodes have lived is added, they will immediately begin to build traps. Here, then, is one of those frontiers. The composition and action of diffusates is poorly understood, and the man who can explain the process will have done more than make the acquaintance of a hookworm. For it is a diffusate which sends out the irresistible call from ovum to sperm -- and sends the opposite message the very instant a single sperm cell penetrates it. And such understanding may make clearer the exact electroIF chemical process by which a nerve impulse, which triggers cell after cell in microseconds, carries a message. There is simply no way to calculate the ultimate effects of such understanding. But if you feel a little cheated by our use of terms like "adventure" and "exploration" for such sit-down, eyestrain, trace-element researches, maybe the Para apricot, the vinca rose, aniba ' , pacova', and pajuru ' will be more to your liking. H ere is exploration and adventure in its truest sense, not only the exotic-land, pith-helmet, wild beast and deadly serpent variety, but also the pot-o'-gold kind; for here is exploration with more than a fair chance of a classic buck at the far end. At last, and belatedly, teams of American and Brazilian doctors and biochemists are assaulting the Amazon Valley -- an immense, largely uncharted tract carpeted with some # as-yet-unclassified plant species. Everyone knows the story of curare , deadly arrow-poison which became a miracle drug. But did you know that along with quinine and ipecac, cortisone also comes from a jungle plant, and Brazilian Indians used to chew Rauwolfia to make them brave in battle, long before Mad Ave ever heard of Miltown? And they have # species of Rauwolfia in those jungles, each valuable in its own special way. Doctors in the state of Para' found a high and tragic incidence of stomach hemorrhage a while back, and traced it to a local apricot, which wa eaten plentifully by the people. From it they have derived a valuable anticoagulent to control strokes and angina. (Let us add that our home grown variety doesn't play these tricks.) The vinca rose, common as our daffodils, is used in Brazil for a bracing tea, a mouth wash, an antiseptic for open wounds and a cure for upset stomachs. This year researchers haVe found that it is a potent aid in the remission of many types of cancer, including leukemial Pacova' and pajuru ' with which Intheir faces since before Columbus, may make a breakthrough in the dye industry the like of which has not been seen since coaltar appeared on the scene. Aniba! is a heady perfume, and certainly the forerunner of a whole new series of exotic scents. We've been talking here only about one small corner of one science -- biochemistry -- and have, we think, uncovered a goodly number of challenging "new frontiers". When you pause to think that without exception, every scientific discipline can produce more of the same, the widespread ambition to shoot for Fringe-Benefitsville in good old General Everything Inc. looks just a little effete, doesn't it? IP  Novelette Whatever it was that had happened in the test, it badly needed a good explanation. I L ieutenant Colonel Philip Snow, Test Director of the AeroMedical Laboratory, was pacing the study floor in his quarters, asking himself for the dozenth time in the past half-hour: What had happened to Richardson during the test that afternoon? He was no stranger to problems. He had been living with them for the past few years, and they had been problems the like of which had never before challenged the ingenuity of man. For he was the head of a small community of men, scientists like himself -- medical specialists of all kinds, psychologists, electronic technicians, physicists, pressure engineers, mathematicians and so on, each one of them an acknowledged expert in his particular field -- who had worked together with one end in view: to send a man into space and bring him back safely to Earth again. To put it more excitingly: to enable man to take his first step toward the conquest of the universe. IF The result of their labors to date was the Capsule, a bottle-shaped contraption which occupied the center of the laboratory floor. It wasn't very big; just big enough to contain a man enclosed in a spacesuit, lying on a couch surrounded by instruments. But there wasn't a square inch of the capsule itself, the spacesuit, and the instruments which hadn't presented innumerable problems, the solving of which had been the result of endless research and theorizing and testing. And in the same way, and almost to the same extent, there wasn't a square inch of the man, too, which didn't present problems, all of which must be solved before he could be sent into space. And so, in test after test, one of the chosen astronauts had lain on the couch in the capsule, wired through his spacesuit to the dozens of dials and graph recorders on the consoles at which sat the watching specialists. It seemed there was nothing that could happen inside his body that they could not know about. They could read every flexing of his muscles, every heartbeat, every tiny shifting of temperature, every reaction of his blood and of his complicated nervous system. On the encephalograph, they could even detect reactions in the mass of gray matter which was his brain, any sign of tension there, and above all, any symptom of that strange phenomenon of which so little was yet known, and which was called the "breakoff" -- the eerie sensation of complete isolation from Earth, the trancelike apathy and indifference to survival that can attack not only high-flying pilots, but deep-sea divers, "the rapture of the depths," and sometimes it was accompanied by hallucinations in which strange forms and sounds were seen and heard. I n the case of Lieutenant Hamhad been no mysterious troubles of this kind -- in fact, no troubles of any kind at ' all. Aged thirty-six, he had been one of the first of the astronauts to volunteer. He had passed with flying colors every one of the grueling preliminary tests, mental and physical, and as far as could be judged by science, he had seemed to be the perfect specimen, mentally and physically, for the job. In the many tests made with him inside the capsule, nothing had gone wrong with him. There had been no signs of fatigue or failure of any kind. Had Snow been asked who, in his opinion, would be the first man -- or, at any rate, the first American -- to go into deep space, he would unhesitatingly have nominated Richardson. That is to say, until that afternoon when the thing had happened. It had been a long test, one made for the first time. The object of it was to find out how the spacesuit, which was sealed off from the rest of the capsule, would stand up if something happened to the capsule itself. If, for instance, in its headlong flight through space, something struck it, something, maybe, no bigger than a small pebble. The odds were that in collision with even so IF small a meteor, the shell of the capsule would be punctured, and within a minute or less, the atmospheric pressure inside it, fixed at about five thousand feet above sea level, would be reduced to zero. In other words, the capsule would become a vacuum in which nothing on Earth could live. The astronaut would then have to depend upon his spacesuit which, being pressurized, and being really a capsule within a capsule, with its own supply of oxygen, would be the one hope of survival. That day, the test had consisted of the "puncturing" of the capsule. At a given signal, the pressure inside it had been reduced to that of fifty miles above the Earth's surface -- in other words, to zero -- by pumping out the air inside it. Richardson, the ace of the astronauts, had been chosen for this important test. It had gone well. With the other scientists at their dials, Snow, seated at the big console of literally dozens of dials, the only one to be connected with Richardson by sound and speech, had given the signal. In a minute, the capsule had become a vacuum fifty miles above the surface of the Earth, outside its envelope of atmosphere. Richardson's voice, reading his instruments, acknowledging Snow's instructions, answering his questions, had come through as normal and as calm as ever. Snow had felt a rising excitement as the test proceeded. And then, without warning, the thing had happened. Richardson's voice had stopped in the middle of an instrument reading, as if it had suddenly been cut off. A few seconds later, it had resumed. Birt when it did so, the voice was uttering a stream of unintelligible soundi in a low, lilting chant. Snow had listened incredulously for perhaps thirty seconds, at the end of which the sounds had suddenly ceased. Immediately, Snow had given instructions for the normal pressure inside the capsule to be restored. Almost as he had done so, Richardson's voice, once again normal, had resumed the reading of the instruments, taking up from where it had left off a minute before. Acting on a sudden impulse. Snow had decided to say nothing over the wire to Richardson at the time. He had continued his conversation with the astronaut, telling him they were "bringing him down" and asking the usual questions until the test ended. W hen, with the others, he had stood around watching while Richardson was helped out of his spacesuit, he had carefully watched their faces, looking for some sign of doubt or puzzlement But he saw none. On the contrary, they all seemed triumphantly satisfied. Even Richardson had shown no sign that anything unusual had occurred. He had been his usual cheerful self, seeming not even slightly fatigued by the long test. Being the only one who had been in contact with Richardson, Snow had suddenly found himself wondering if he really had heard those sounds, if, maybe, he had been the victim of a hallucination. This was why he had said nothing about it at the time. He had just asked, as casually as he could, if any of them had anything they wanted to bring up immediately. They had shaken their heads, beaming their satisfaction, and he had dismissed them all, saying that in view of Jhe length of the test they might all call it a day, and postponing the usual interrogation until the morrow. Then he had hurried back to his quarters, bringing with him the recording machine on which, as was the practice, his conversation with Richardson during the test had been recorded. Controlling his impatience with difficulty, he had rewound the tape on the machine and played it back, the tension rising within him as he listened. There had been no hallucination. He heard Richardson's voice reading the instrument, the sudden cutoff in the middle of it, the short silence, then the voice uttering the strange sounds in a low-pitched chant with a gentle rise and fall to it. Three times he had played it back, and now it seemed to him that these were not just disconnected sounds. They appeared to have a cadence, a phrasing which indicated that they belonged to a language of some sort. Snow was no linguist. He had less than a fair conversational knowledge of French and German, and a scholar's acquaintance with Latin, but he had travelled very extensively in his time and had been accustomed to hear many languages spoken. He was quite sure he had never heard anything even remotely resembling these sounds. Certainly Richardson was no linguist either. He was third-generation American from British stock, and all he knew about languages was what he had learned in school. T hen where had those sounds come from? Were they a language, and if so, w,hat did they mean? How could this happen to a man like Richardson without his knowing about it? Did it mean that here was, after all, something strange about him which the man himself might not even know about, and which might mean that he was not fit for the project? This last question worried Snow more than the others. He went to the telephone on his desk and dialed the Richardson bungalow. The voice of Richardson's pretty wife answered him. "Yes? Sandra Richardson here." "Hello, Sandra. Phil Snow calling. Is Ham there?" "He's in the shower singing his head off. Shall I get him?" "No, it isn't important. I just wanted to ask him again if he feels all right after the test. I was rather a long one, and I wondered if he might feel tired, or..." "Tired? He seems even more full of pep than usual. Was the test so very long, then?" "Yes, it was. That's why I called and -- just to tell him it was a success. I haven't checked all the reports yet, but it looks good. And you say he's as usual?" IF "Yes. Why? There wasn't anything...?" "No, no, nothing at all. Just as I said. I'll be seeing you." He rang off, hoping that nothing he had said was now making Sandra Richardson suspicious, and resumed his pacing up and down the floor. Now another question came into his mind. The same test would be run several times again before final conclusions could be made. Should he wait for them to see if this thing happened again before starting anything with Richardson and his colleagues? But even as he asked himself the question, he knew the answer. If this never again happened in any future test, the fact would remain that it had happened once and could not be forgotten or brushed aside. It must be cleared up. Something had happened to Richardson's mind. He decided to take Abe Fran stein, his head psychologist, into his confidence. As he dialed Franstein's bungalow, he recalled with a sense man was not only a world authority in his particular subject, but that he was said to be able to read, write, and converse in a staggering number of languages, some of them obscure Oriental dialects. When Franstein answered the call, Snow asked him to drop in for coffee after dinner. II #T T Tell, I must say," said Fran V stein as they sipped their coffee, "yours is the first glum face I've seen around here since that test this afternoon. Here we are, within sight of our goal at last, and look at you! Weren't you satisfied?" "Before I go into that," Snow replied, "there are a few things I want to ask you." "About the test?" "In a way, but .principally about Richardson. Have you ever had any reason to suspect that there is anything unusual about him?" "In what way?" "In your line." Franstein produced an enormous meerschaum pipe and proceeded to fill it from an untidy plastic pouch as he replied. "Yes, there is. One very unusual thing." "There is?" "He's got a very rare type of mind. It's probably perfectly balanced." The little man lit his pipe and continued: "The vast majority of us have some sort of imbalance, mentally. He hasn't. When I say imbalance, I mean the sort of thing that makes for genius, a phenomenal memory, an outstanding, effortless talent, amnesia, any form of insanity, or even something like a violent temper. Anything, so to speak, overemphasized." "Is it physical? I mean, does it have anything to do with the size or weight of the brain, or anything like that?" "You can take the brain of a genius and that of an ordinary person of average intelligence, and find them exactly the same in measurements and tissue condition. The popular conception of the genius as a man with a bulging forehead is so much nonsense. Plenty of lunatics and retarded individuals have bulging foreheads." "Then what does it have to do with?" "Ah! That's the big question. Nobody knows. You can take two men, equal physically in every respect, equal in upbringing, education, health, and with the same sized brain. One of them might turn out to be a genius, the other an average individual, and nobody knows what makes the difference. Nobody knows what makes an infant prodigy, or what it is which enables a child of two to read easily, or a kid of five or six to play some instrument as if he'd been at it for years or compose symphonies, or master advanced mathematics. Same answer. Nobody knows. It's got nothing to do with heredity. So few geniuses have had genius offspring that they form exceptions to the rule. Again, why does an infant prodigy sometimes lose his gift or talent entirely as he grows older? We don't know. All we know is that the gift or talent is there, but where it comes from, or why it is in one brain and not in another, we don't know. But surely you don't have to have me to tell you all this, Phil? What's on your mind?" "Listen to this," Snow said, and went to the tape recorder. H e rewound the tape to its beginning, depressed the switch marked Play , and presently they heard the two voices, Snow's and Richardson's. "Nowl" said Snow as the point on the tape approached. There came the sudden stopping of Richardson's voice in the middle of an instrument reading, the short silence, then Richardson's voice chanting the strange sounds. Franstein took his pipe from between his teeth and his mouth fell open as he listened. The sounds ceased and Richardson's voice resumed the instrument reading at the point at which it had left off. "That's all," said Snow, and switched off the machine. Franstein put his pipe back into his mouth. "Is this the recording of this afternoon's test?" "Yes. What d'you make of it?" "Let's hear it again." Snow played back the recording a second and a third time, and then said: "Well?" Franstein went to the table and helped himself to more coffee before replying. "It's a new one on me," he said presently. "I've got about a thousand recordings of languages and dialects from all over the world, and not one of them is anything like that." "You think it is a language, not just sounds?" "That we've got to find out, but I'd say, offhand, it's a primitive form of a language of some sort." "Then how the devil does it come out of a man like Richardson who's never spoken anything but English -- nor his forebears, for that matter?" Franstein shrugged his shoulders. "How does great music come out of a child of six, and so on? Same If question, same answer. Nobody knows. Have you spoken to Richardson about it?" "No. I rang his bungalow just before dinner and spoke to Sandra. Richardson was in the shower, and she said he was feeling fine. I didn't tell her about this, of course." "Then it couldn't have been some sort of mediumistic trance. They usually feel the effects of that sooner or later." "You're not suggesting spiritualism, are you?" and in Snow's voice was a note of amusement. "Don't laugh at it. If it's never been proved, neither has it been disproved." And that touched off a discussion which went on for two hours. It covered many theories, many beliefs and faiths, all of which Franstein spoke learnedly and with great respect. He talked of reincarnation, spiritualism, the mystery of time, and in this last connection, he paused in the middle of what he was saying and asked: "If this -- " and he waved a hand toward the machine -- "is a language, and I'm pretty sure it is, how can we be sure that it is a language of the past? Why shouldn't it be one belonging to the future? All languages change with time. We'd probably find it very difficult to understand the English spoken ten centuries ago. What if this is the English that is going to be spoken a thousand years hence?" all of which Snow listened with the skepticism of the exact scientist, and Franstein, quick to notice this, went on: "You think yourselves clever, you exact scientists, and so you are. You can do a lot of things. You can split the atom, measure the stars, estimate the life expectancy of the sun; you have conquered distance, you have surrounded us with miracles like radio, television, invisible rays and all the rest of it. Presently, you will conquer space and colonize the planets, and so it will go until it will seem to you that you will know everything. And you will too, except for one thing -- the one final mystery, the last secret of the universe me, and any human being from a bum of Skid Row to the President. Man is the eternal unknown quantity, and you've never had a more clear demonstration of this than what happened to Richardson this afternoon. Oh, I know what you've found out. You know all about man, his insides, his glands, muscles, nerves, brain, and so on. You can even display him on a table as a bucket of water and little piles of salts and minerals, and you can point to them and say: 'That is what man is made of. Only the other day I was reading about some scientist who thinks he's on the verge of producing a cell of life in a test tube. You may even do that, and you may find out one day how to put the water and the salts and the minerals together again and make a man. I've always thought the Frankenstein story was a bit of inspired prophecy. But you still won't be able to explain why great music can come from a child of six, or what happened to Richardson this afternoon." He lit his big pipe, which had gone out, and through the puffs asked: "And what do you propose to do about Richardson?" "Run the test again tomorrow with him and see if this happens again, and then decide," replied Snow. "But even if nothing happens tomorrow, you can't ignore this." "That's true. We've got to get to the bottom of it, and that's where you come in. You're the expert on this sort of thing." Franstein looked at his watch. "Let's sleep on it and see what happens tomorrow, eh?" He was on his way to the door when the telephone bell rang. Snow picked up the receiver, and he heard him say: "Sandra?... What?... I'll be right over. I've got Abe Franstein with me. I'll bring him with me. Don't worry dear." Snow hung up. "Something's happened to Richardson," he said. "He's gone into a deep sleep and won't wake, and he's talking to himself in some funny language. Let's go." Snow rummaged in a drawer of his desk and found a stethoscope. Ill F ive minutes later, they were standing with pretty Sandra Richardson at the foot of the bed on which Richardson, clad in his pajamas, sprawled on his back. He was in a deep sleep and from his mouth came a low chanting. Franstein and Snow glanced at each other as they recognized the sounds. Snow tried to wake the astronaut, gently at first, then less so, but it had no effect. He used his stethoscope on heart and lungs, drew back an eyelid and examined the eye beneath, felt the brow. "When did this happen?" he asked the anxious Sandra. "About fifteen, maybe twenty minutes ago," she replied. "We came in here and undressed and I used the bathroom first. When I came out, I found him like this." "How's he been all the evening?" "Fine, just as I told you when you rang. Tom and Betty Moreland came for dinner and we played canasta. Is he all right?" "As far as I can see, yes. Heart, lungs, eyes all right, no fever. I guess we'll just have to wait till he wakes." They went into the sitting room and Sandra left them to make coffee. "He's living through something," Franstein said. "Pity you haven't got the recorder here." "I thought the same. I'll get it." Snow left and Franstein wandered back into the bedroom and leaned over Richardson. Now he was sure this was a language and that the sleeper was conversing with someone in his sleep. The expressions changed on Richardson's face rapidly as they do on the face of anyone during a conversation. At one moment he laughed as he said something, then became serious as he said something else. Sandra came into the bedroom and joined Franstein at the bedside. "He's never been like this before," she said worriedly. IF "Doesn't he ever talk in his sleep?" "He never even snores. When we were first married, he slept so quietly that I thought he'd stopped breathing, but I'd only have to touch him or whisper to him and he'd wake in an instant. What does this mean?" "We'll find out, never fear." They went back into the sitting room as they heard Snow return. He was carrying the recording machine, and seeing the question in Sandra's eyes as she saw it, he said reassuringly: "We're going to make a recording of what Ham's saying. We'll soon find out what this is all about." He busied himself changing the tapes on the machine, taking the new one from his pocket, and fumbled the job in his haste. He had plugged in the microphone and was unwinding the long chord when they heard Richardson's voice call out from the next room: "Sandra!" and a moment later, Richardson appeared in the open doorway, staring at them in astonishment. "Abe! Phil! When did you come here?" "About .half an hour ago," Snow replied. R ichardson passed a hand over his eyes. "I must have fallen asleep," he said. "You did, darling, and I couldn't wake you," Sandra said. "So I called Phil." "You couldn't wake me?" "No, and you were talking away in your sleep. You had me worried." "Why?" Sandra, at a loss, looked at Franstein and he answered for her. "You were dreaming, Ham," he said. Richardson thought for a moment before replying. "Now that you mention it, I was. But what's so extraordinary about that? Why are you all looking at me as if I'd suddenly grown horns?"  "D'you remember what the dream was about?" Franstein asked. "Vaguely. Yes, I do. It was just a dream. Why is it so important?" He sat down in a deep chair and looked around at them. "What is all this?" he said. "I fall asleep for half an hour, have a silly dream, and wake up to find you here looking as if something big has happened." "Something has happened, Ham," said Franstein. "Something we don't understand." Richardson started up in his seat. "Take it easy, there's nothing to worry about. We'll get to the bottom of it." He turned to Snow. "I think I know the way out of this. Play the recording for Ham to hear." Snow hesitated for a moment. "All right, if you think so," he said, and busied himself with the recorder, replacing the used tape on the spool. Sandra perched herself on the arm of her husband's chair and put an arm about his shoulders. They waited while Snow linked up the end of the tape to the other spool. He pressed the Play switch, and presently there came the voices of Snow and Richardson. "That's this afternoon's test," Richardson said. Franstein nodded, and they continued to listen Then came the chanting sounds, and when he heard them, Richardson's expression changed to one of amazement. Snow switched off the machine. "What was that?" Richardson asked. "We hoped you'd be able to tell us," Franstein replied. "I? What should I know about it?" "That was your voice, Ham. Nobody's touched the tape, and I heard it during the test." "But this is crazy. How could I make a noise like that without knowing anything about it? Why, I remember every second of that test, and I know I didn't do anything like that." He jumped to his feet and began to walk up and down the room, his hands pressed to his head. "I said take it easy, Ham," Franstein said. Richardson pulled up short in his pacing and turned to the little man. "How can I take it easy? I spend six hours in the capsule in a difficult test, remember every bit of it, come out of it feeling not even tired, and now you tell me that in the middle of it I had some sort of a blackout and made funny noises. That can only mean that there's something wrong with me, and you don't have to tell me what that means. I don't qualify, after all. Is that what you came here to tell me?" F ranstein's voice was as quiet as before. "It doesn't mean anything of the sort. If there'd been a blackout or if something else had no happened to your brain, it would have shown up on the encephalograph, and nothing showed. I didn't know about this until I heard the recording, and we weren't going to say anything about it until we'd run the test a second time. Then Sandra called us to say she couldn't wake you and that you were talking in your sleep, and we came over to find you in a sleep as deep as a coma and obviously di;eaming." "And what's that got to do with the test?" "You were making the same sort of sounds in your sleep as you did in the test, and I'm sure they add up to a language of some sort." "What? You mean to say that was a language? For Pete's sake, I've never spoken anything but Epglish all my life. I can't." "We know that." Richardson turned to his wife. "Is this true?" he asked her tensely. "Was I making noises like that in my sleep?" She nodded miserably. He threw up his hands. "Okay," he said, "you're three to one. The ace astronaut turns out to be some sort of nut who talks monkey langauge in his sleep, and when he's awake too, without knowing it." He went to the deep chair and slumped down into it. "What do we do now? Go into analysis again? Start all over?" He laughed shortly and bitterly, and added: "Or do I resign from the project?" "Listen, Ham," Franstein said. "We're up against something new, something I don't understand, and whatever happens, we've got to try IF and find out what it is, for your sake as well as for the project's. Let's relax and start with the dream. Tell us what you remember of it." Richardson took time to calm down before he spoke. "It was just a dream," he began presently. "There was a big spaceship and a lot of people standing about." "Where was this?" "Where? I don't know. On Earth, I suppose. Open place, you know, only..." He paused before going on. "Only it wasn't standing up on end like a rocket. It was lying on its side, and we were loading it." "Who were 'we'?" "My father and my two brothers. And that shows how silly the dream was because I haven't got any brothers or father. My father in the dream wasn't anything like my own. He was just an old man, and he told us where to stow the crates." "What was in the crates?" "In the crates?" Richardson looked up. "Let me see now. Oh, yes, they were full of the seeds of plants and eggs and sperm of animals -- sort of the beginnings of things." "And where was the ship going to?" A gain, Richardson concentrated before replying. "To another Earth," lie said. "That's right. The old guy, our father, said that this one was going to be destroyed by some disaster, and the people standing about were laughing and jeering and saying the old man was crazy." "Do you know what sort of disaster was going to happen?" asked Franstein. Richardson looked at him and suddenly a smile formed on his face. "Now I know where that dream came from," he said. "Remember that book On The Beach? The story about how everyone on Earth was wiped out by nuclear fallout? That's it! I remember wondering when I read it if some of us would be able to go to another planet before anything like that happened here, and I remember thinking, too, that we'd probably take things like seeds and so on with us, and even the ova of animals, and that by then we'd probably know how to preserve them -- freeze them or something of the sort." "We can do that now," Snow said. "Well, there it is, then," said Richardson, smiling again. "There's the explanation." "It explains the dream all right," agreed Snow, "but what about the sounds? Particularly those you made in the capsule?" "Lord, yes!" said Richardson, and the smile left his face. "I'd forgotten about those. That puts us back to where we came in, doesn't it?" "I'm not so sure," said Franstein. He got to his feet and, in his turn, prowled up and down the room, deep in thought. The others waited for him to go on, and presently he turned to them, a glint of excitement in his eyes. "I think we're onto something," he said. "Those sounds are obviously a part of your dream, Ham, including the ones you made in the capsule, and only you know what they mean." "But I don't even remember making them!" IF "No, but your mind does. If we can unlock your mind, we can find the secret, and there's a way in which it can be done. Hypnosis." "Hypnosis?" The others spoke at once. Franstein nodded. "I've got to put you into a hypnotic trance, Ham, and we'll play that recording back to you and I think -- only think, remember -- that you're going to be able to tell us what they mean. Any objection, Phil?" "You're the expert." "How about you, Ham?" "I'll do anything to clear up this business." He jumped to his feet. "Let's get on with it now. What do I do? Shall I lie down on the sofa?" "I didn't know you are a hypnotist too, Abe," said Snow. "I'm not surprised, though. I might have known." Franstein took no notice of this, lie stepped up to Richardson and looked up at him, holding out one hand which the other, wonderingly, took. "The big thing is confidence, Ham," he said, looking up earnestly. "Complete confidence. You have that in me?" Richardson looked down on the little man and nodded his head. "Sure," he said. "I've always had that in you, Abe." Franstein continued to hold the other's hand. "That's fine," he said. "All you have to do is to relax and trust in me. Just relax completely. Just let yourself go -- eh?" R ichardson's head nodded again, and for a moment Franstein, still holding the hand continued to look up into Richardson's face above him. Then he released the hand and said: "Now you can lie down on the couch if you like." Richardson went to the couch and stretched himself out on it. "I've heard a lot about this-," Sandra said, "but I've never seen it done." Franstein smiled at her. "You've just seen it done, my dear," he said, and as she stared back at him in astonishment, added: "He's a very good subject. Now, when that machine is ready... "If I'm right in what I think," Franstein said a few minutes later to Snow, who stood by the table on which now rested the recorder, and to Sandra who was at the head of the couch looking down on her husband who lay there, his eyes halfclosed, "you're going to hear something very surprising. Please don't make a sound." They nodded their heads, and Franstein seated himself on the edge of the couch, leaned over Richardson, and spoke softly: "You hear me, Ham?" "Yes, I hear you." "Then listen." Franstein turned and nodded to Snow. The machine was switched on and there came, clearly, the chanted sounds of the test. They finished and the machine was switched off. "You heard. Ham?" "Yes, I heard." "You made those sounds that we just heard.' "Yes." "Can you repeat them?" "Then do so." And now the strange low chanting sounds streamed from Richardson's lips. Sandra put her hands to her mouth to stifle a gasp. Snow stepped to her side, his face tense. The sounds ceased and Franstein, his eyes alight with excitement, said softly: "Tell us, to whom are you speaking?" "To my sons." "Tell us in English what you are saying to them." There was a silence. Franstein repeated his command, and Richardson spoke again, this time in his normal voice. "And God saw the earth , and behold it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth. And God said to Noah , I have determined to make an end of all flesh; for the earth is filled with violence through them; behold I will destroy them with the earth. Make yourself an ark...and you shall come into the ark , you , vour sons , your wife , and your sons ' wives with you. And of every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you , they shall be male and female... Also take with you every sort of food that is eaten and store it up...And Noah did all that the Lord had commanded him..." The voice tapered off into silence, and Sandra, her eyes wide with fear and amazement whispered: "That's the story of the Flood and he told it as if he was there. What does it mean?" Franstein silenced her with a gesture and bent over Richardson whose eyes were closed. "Ham," he said, a note of insistence in his voice, "you hear me? Answer!" The eyes half opened. "Yes, I hear you." "Tell me, where did you go in the ark?" "To a place of many waters... many waters, and we rested on them until they went down." Now the voice was fading. "Where was it? Tell me, where was it?" The reply came in almost a whisper. "I don't know. It was another earth...another earth..." The eyes closed again, the breathing became deeper, but the lips still moved, and through them, barely heard in the tense silence, came again the low, chanting sounds. Then they, too, died away to silence, the lips ceased to move, and RichGalaxy Magabook No. I on sale now! i Two by Lester del Rey I On your newsstand -- get your copy today! r  # IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: You will be astonished to get a letter from Germany speaking about If. So I have to tell you that I am a German sf fan and reader of sf, too. Today we have no sf magazine in Germany, but we had. It was the German edition of Galaxy, and it was a very fine magazine, but only a very few people bought it and so publishing ended soon. I wanted to know what is on with sf in America and the only way to get to know the new American sf literature is to read an American sf magazine. So I came to If, and I think If is good enough to show me something about your sf. First some critic of my second edition of If, the one of January, #. I don't like serials, and so I am not happy to have one in If in R. A. Heinlein's Podkayne of Mars, but I think that my meaning has not enough weight to abolish it. One of the best stories of that issue is, I think, Gary Wright's Captain of the Kali. It might be that G. Wright will become a good author, but one can see that he just has begun to write. He doesn't know whether he shall write more about the persons or the fiction. I think that the persons are more important and an author who can only describe action, but has no ideas how to describe persons, is, as I myself think, no good author. But Gary Wright seems to become a good one. There are other good stories in that issue, but I think there is no wealth to count them up. I hope that I have shown you that there are friends of If also in other countries. Finally I have a question to you: Do you ever publish stories of foreign authors? as German or French or other? With best greetings, Jorn-Dieter Bandermann # Hamburg-Nienstedten Wustenkamp #, W. Germany  Seldom if ever -- because we see very few, and almost none that we think our readers would enjoy. But we'd be glad to print any good story IF we can find regardless of origin. -- Editor    Dear Editor: Here's congratulating you on one of the finest issues that I have ever seen in your history. The Jan. issue was simply superb! I rate The Five Hells of Orion as the best by far, one of the best novelettes of interstellar adventure that I have ever read. If you ever start a "classic reprint" department this story will appear in If as a classic of classics. The next best story was Captain of the Kali , by an author who is very promising, Gary Wright. I found this story to be an excellent blend of science fiction and good old-fashioned adventure. Next comes The Shipshape Miracle , by Clifford D. Simak. All in all, a great issue. Every time I turn to your letter column I see comments on your cover and interior art, usually bad. Lately these remarks are getting better, signifying that your art is looking up. However, I don't give a darn whether your art is superb or crummy. When I buy If or any other sf magazine I look for good stories, and nothing else. I wish you came out monthly, though. Couldn't you do something about that? Paul Gilster # Goodwon Lane St. Louis #, Mo.    Dear Editor: The improvement in the January issue of If is welcome. Not one smudged or totally unreadable page! One trivial thing that irritates me no end is the utter lack of uniform size in the magazine. The November issue measure #x# cm. The January issue measures # . # x # cm. Of course I don't expect If to establish itself as a topnotch sf magazine (such as Analog or Galaxy) overnight, but I don't believe in stagnation, either. Who knows? If such improvements persist, I may even buy a subscription. Tell me more about Worlds of Tomorrow. Clarke, Leinster, Silverberg and Laumer. Quite a lineup, if I may say so. One more question, then I'll stop bothering you. Are you to become editor? Box # Bunola, Pennsylvania Yes. -- Editor    Dear Editor: In the first part of Podkayne of Mars, Podkayne states, "my waist is forty-eight centimeters." Robert Heinlein is one of my favorite authors, but sixteen-year-old girls do not usually have waistlines of a little over twelve inches. What happened, has Podkayne been dieting? Muriel Garfunkel # East #th Street New York #, N.Y.  A centimeter being .# inches, # of 'em must come to -- um -- gosh -- oh, say about nineteen inches, almost. Svelte but not scrawny. Better get that slipstick fixed.' Editor    Dear Editor: The March If was the first ish I'd seen in a while, but what an improvement! Neat cover by Finlay (ain't he always?), neat layout, neat illos, tinted headings, terrific yarns (an extra laurel for that disturbing bit by Ted White and Terry Carr). Wot next? Pulp size? No? I thought not. Know something? You're rounding up the best, so try to latch on to Rocklynne, Leigh Brackett, andor James MacCreigh (for that I get Pohl-axed) . Also Bloch, Bloch, Bloch. Sure! I'll be waiting with four dimes clutched in my sweaty little paw. Meantime I wish to heck someone would write to me. Chuck Morris R. #, Box # Gaffney, S.C.  James MacWho ? -- Editor    Dear Editor: I've heard of an all one-author issue, but never before an all oneartist issue. Hats off to Virgil Finlay and Fred Pohl, boys. It's good to see J. G. Ballard in your pages, but how about some more Britishers, say James White, Ken Bulmer, Philip High and so on? David Charles Paskow # West #th Avenue Philadelphia #, Penna.    Dear Editor: I protest! How could Heinlein squeal to a stop so soon when obviously, Poddy has a lot more story to her and so does Clark? Poddy ought to have made a pet of Ariel, flirted with a spaceship captain, proved her worth as a crewman in space and finally married Dexter. Please tell Mr. Heinlein to get busy on the sequel. Gwen Cunningham # Wisconsin Street Oakland #, California  Gosh, what do we need him for? You just wrote it ! -- Editor    As friends of the family know, each issue we bring you at least one story by a writer never before published in a science fiction magazine. This issue there are two: Another Earth y by a couple of fellows who have done all their previous writing in drama form, and Run downy by a young public-relations man from upstate New York. How about the rest of you out there? It isn't a contest; you don't have to tear off a boxtop ; all you have to do is write a story and mail it to us along with a stamped, self-addressed return envelope in case we don't like it... Next issue: Retief is back, with what we think about the best in the series. We begin a new serial called The Reefs of Space by Jack Williamson and your editor. And there'll be more... See you then! Editor      oo O I ) o o O o o o o O o oooo ooogoo oo o o won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it ! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." #mtr #Camr iJirrc Do you need more money for yourself -- your family? Is your future in your present job uncertain? Would you like a job with more prestige? how to increase your earning power, in your spare time -- how to prepare for a new, wellpaid career with unlimited future. Arthur J. Goldberg, former Secretary of Labor, stated that we will need to train an addiWhether you are a civilian or a member of the armed forces, a specialized skill puts you first in line for better pay, promotion, higher rating. Learn a vitally important skill now! Learn Opportunities are great in all Electronics fields. Even if you have no previous experience , you can train as an Electronics Technician at home with clear, step-by-step instructions -- plus professional equipment to build and use. Get complete details on our training, and information about age and requirements necessary for employment in the booming Electronics Industry. No obligation. Mail coupon today. easily you grasp electronics principles. Send for our first lesson on Basic Electronics and a useful Protractor Tool. Absolutely no cost or obligation. #I N. W. # I st Avenue, Portland #, Oregon Please send me, without cost or obligation , the first Electronics Lesson, the Protractor Tool, and facts on your training. Name . Age Address City State County Nearest Phone # by You don't have to mail the coupon -- if you want to keep your covers intact -- but don't years... and sure to be one of its best! Every issue of Worlds of Tomorrow is packed with the best stories of your favorite writers. At almost one-third of newsstand price -- more outstanding stories. Either clip the coupon or send order on a plain sheet of paper... but don't wait! Do it today! r n I Introductory Subscription Department  J #I Hudson Street, New York City #, New York !  introductory pricel Start my subscription with Issue No. I j  No. # (circle which you prefer). I enclose check or money  I orer for #. (Add # for postage outside of North   and South America).  I Name I I Address I  City Zone State I ! J Here's What Is in Store fo'r You in You'll laugh with his The Star  Sent Knaves and be enthralled by his The Night of the Trolls. One of science fiction's finest women writers and anthologists brings you her unforgettable story. The Lonely. An all-time great writer with The Masked World. Celebrated author of The Visitor at the Zoo comes to The End of the Search. Hugo award-winner with an unforgettable novelette. The Impossible Star. Another Hugo winner with another memorable novelette, A Jury of Its Peers. All Your Favorites! Prize winners and the best of the newcomers, novelists and short-story writers -- all the writers who bring you the best of science fiction will be with subscription todayl All New Stories worlds of V #. #, Number # Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher David Per ton, Production Manager Rose M. Bianchini, Art Director Cover by Emsh from The Reefs of Space IF published bi-monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #. No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, W. X. Five fascinating books on the men who are our pioneers to the stars-the Who are the Men of Space? What are they like -- these giants of science and adventure who have changed the destiny of the human race? In the five Shirley Thomas brings you intimate portrayals of the test pilots, astronauts, engineers and scientists who have dared to attack the vastness of the universe. The conquest of space can be no more dramatic than the lives of men who set themselves to its challenging tasks. These are the Men of Space: Goddard, Bernard A. Schriever, John Paul Stapp, Konstantin E. Tsiolkovsky, James A. Van Allen, Wernher von Braun, Theodore von Karman, John von Neumann, Charles Yeager. F. Dixon, Walter R. Dornberger, Hugh L. Dryden, W. Randolph Lovelace II, ward Teller, Robert C. Truax, Fred L. Whipple. For a limited time, readers of this magazine can purchase the above five books for # and save # on the total cost of the books if purchased separately at # each. For quick delivery, order now by using the coupon at right. Draper, Louis G. Dunn, Don D. Flickinger, Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin, Arthur Harold W. Ritchey, Alan B. Shepard, Jr., H. N. Toftoy. Gilruth, Samuel Herrick, John R. Pierce, Harrison A. Storms, Hubertus Strughold. Hibbs, Richard B. Kershner, Homer E. Newell, L. Eugene Root, Robert C. Seamans, Jr., Charles H. Townes, Roger S. Warner, Jr. #I Hudson Street New York #. N Y Please send me the indicated quantities of the following copy(ies) of Yolume I  # each copy(ies) of Volume #  # each copy(ies) of Volume #  # each copy(ies) of Volume #  # eachcopy(ies) of Volume #  # each set(s) of Volumes I through #  # each I have enclosed a check or money order in the full amount. Postage will be paid by the publisher. Name Address .State. JF  Editorial C onstant readers -- the majority, of course -- will recall the article I wrote last year (the Great Man got thumped for some of it from those who thought he wrote it, though there was no intent to deceive) about my notebook. Just random jottings which I thought might be of interest to you. There's one category of notes in the book which I didn't mention, because of a childish idea that some day I'm going to fabricate some of these things and make a fortune and never write editorials any more. But the heck with it. One, you might enjoy them. Two, there's a crying need for some of 'em. Three, I am surrounded by unfinished projects and it's past time I cleared the thicket.  The world is full of dark corners which could stand a spot of light, yet you can't -- I can't, anyway -- buy a pinup lamp designed to fit into a corner. Not only does every house, bar darn few, need a couple of these, it's the only way you can place a pinup lamp without the wire hanging out like a ruptured gut.  Compared with TV, home movies never got off the ground. Yet there are obvious advantages: you can see what you want to see when you want to see it; you can make your own films and show them. Why is no one making a serious effort to combine these devices, now that two-thirds of the population spends more time staring at the box than it does at school or making a living? Going at it whole hog, a hand-held TV tape camera would make a reel which could be dropped directly into the TV set without developing. Or -- I should say andor -- a hybrid device could scan rented or owned movie film, perhaps with a bank of photocells, and activate the picture tube. I refuse to believe this is a particularly large technical problem.  Area measuring device. Put a map under known illumination and get a reading from a light meter at a fixed distance. Ink in the area to be measured with black ink and take another reading. If the original area is known, the second reading will give you an exact ratio.  Mars canal photos. The "twinkle" effect is supposed to obscure them to some viewers, reveal them to others. So take your photos with high-sensitivity movie film, by the thousand-foot shot (granting good 'scope of course.) Then sit and watch the film. If the "twinkle" theory is correct, surely you'll get one or two frames with canals showing.  Household wiring, especially surface wiring, ready primed so it will take oil-based or alkyd paints.  A mechanical self-starter. Now that lawn-mowers and outboards come with the so-called "impulse" starter, which is nothing more than king-sized clockwork, why hasn't someone thought of the same thing for cars? The spring could be wound by the engine when it was running; it could be a heck of a big one, and it need not necessarily be wound too fast. Once wound, a'ratchet would hold it that way until it was called on. (Only for Pete's sakes keep your plugs clean!)  Why -- why has no enterprising firm or person put the simple fact of rising joblessness against the simple fact of the shortage in good household servants, and come up with the simple answer of a traininghiring agency for competent household help? There are still, believe it or not, lots of people who can afford servants and claim they can't find them. Not good ones, anyway. There have been times and places when household service was a dignified, honorable and -- heaven knows -- skilled occupation. It could be again, and if it caught on as a keep-up-with-the-Jones thing, somebody would stand to make a classic buck. The thicket's still thick. Let's see if my ideas can make money. Then the next step is to see if they can make money for me!     IF mMtmm What secret power I Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world.   Sail Jose, California, U.S.A. Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Lift, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. IF Every man, every living thing In the world was joined In the great Plan of Man -- the Plan that had redoubled Its efforts because it had lost its goal! I nphe major snapped: "Check in, A you Risks! What's the matter with you?" His radar horns made him look like Satan -- a sleepy young Satan with an underslung jaw, but dangerous. "Yes, sir," said Steve Ryeland, peering around. This was Reykjavik -- a new world to Ryeland, who had just come from a maximumsecurity labor camp inside the rim of the Arctic Circle. Ryeland blinked at the buildings, a thousand feet high, and at the jets and rockets scattered across the air field. The little man next to Ryeland sneezed and nudged him. "All right," Ryeland said, and went into the bare little Security lounge. On the teletype that stood in the corner of the room -- in the corner of every room -- he tapped out: Information. Steven Ryeland, rived at -- He took the code letters from the identification plate on the machine. -- Station #-Radius #-#, Reykjavik, Iceland. Query. What are personal ordeis? In a moment the answer came from the Planning Machine, a single typed letter "R". The Machine had received and understood the message and adjusted its records. The orders would follow. A Togetherness girl glanced into the lounge, saw the collars on Ryeland and the little man. Her lips had started to curve in the smile of her trade, but they clamped into a thin line. Risks. She nodded to the major and turned away. The teletype bell rang, and the Machine tapped out: Action. Proceed to Train #, Track #, Compartment #. Ryeland acknowledged the message. The major, leaning over his shoulder, grinned. "A one-way ticket to the Body Bank if you want my guess." "Yes, sir." Ryeland was not going to get into a discussion. He couldn't win. No Risk could win an argument with a man who wore the major's radar horns. "Well, get going," the major grumbled. "Oh, and Ryeland -- " "Yes, sir?" The major winked. "Thanks for the chess games. I'll be seeing you, I guess. Parts of you!" He laughed raucously as he strode away. "No side trips, remember," he warned. "I'll remember," said Steve Ryeland softly, touching the collar he wore. Oporto sneezed again. "Come on," he grumbled. "All right. What was that number?" The little dark man grinned. "Train #, Track #, Compartment #. That's an easy one -- ah choo! Dabbit," he complained, "I'm catching cold. Let's get out of this draft." Ryeland led off. They walked unescorted across the pavement to a cab rank and got in. All around them, travelers, air field workers and others glanced at them, saw the iron collars -- and at once, on each face a curtain descended. No one spoke to them. Ryeland punched the code numbers for their destination, and the car raced through broad boulevards to a huge marble structure on the other side of the city. Over its wide entrance were the carved letters: T hey made their way through a wide concourse, noisy and crowded; but everyone gave them plenty of room. Ryeland grinned sourly to himself. No side trips! Of course not -- and for the same reason. It wasn't healthy for a man who wore the collar to step out of line. And it wasn't healthy for anyone else to be in his immediate neighborhood if he did. "Track Six, was it?" "Train #, Compartment #. IF Can't you remember anything?" Oporto demanded. "There's Track Six." Ryeland led the way. Track Six was a freight platform. They went down a flight of motionless moving stairs and emerged beside the cradle track of the subtrains. Since the subtrains spanned the world, there was no clue as to where they were going. From Iceland they could be going to Canada, to Brazil, even to South Africa; the monstrous atomic drills of the Plan had burrowed perfectly straight shafts from everywhere to everywhere. The subtrains rocketed through air-exhausted tunnels, swung between hoops of electrostatic force. Without friction, their speed compared with the velocity of interplanetary travel. "Where is it?" Oporto grumbled, looking around. A harsh light flooded the grimy platforms, glittering on the huge aluminum balloons that lay in their cradles outside the vacuum locks. Men with trucks and cranes were loading a long row of freightspheres in the platform next to theirs; a little cluster of passengers began to appear down the moving stairs of a platform a hundred yards away. Oporto said abruptly: "I'll give you six to five the next train in is ours." "No bet." Ryeland knew better than to take him up. But he hoped the little man was right. It was cold on the platform. Chill air roared around them from the ventilators; Oporto, already chilled, sneezed and began to sniffle. Ryeland himself was shivering in his thin maximumsecurity denims. At the camp, when their travel orders came through, regulations demanded a thorough medical examination before they left. That was the rule under the Plan, and the examination included a steaming shower. "They want nice clean meat at the Body Bank," the guard .guffawed; but Ryeland paid no attention. He couldn't afford to... A man who wore the iron collar around his neck could only afford a limited look into the future. He could think about the day when the collar came off, and nothing else. A warning horn shrieked into the pit. Ryeland jumped; Oporto turned more slowly, as though he had been expecting it. Which he had. Red signals flickered from the enormous gates of the vacuum lock on Track Six. Air valves gasped. The gates swung slowly open and a tractor emerged towing a cradle with the special car they were waiting for. "You would have lost," Oporto commented and Ryeland nodded; of course he would have. The car stopped. Equalizer valves snorted again, and then its tall door flopped out from the top, forming a ramp to the platform. Escalators began to crawl along it. Oporto said anxiously: "Steve, I don't like the looks of this!" Out of the opening door of the car two men in uniform came running. They ran up the escalators, raced onto the platform and up the stairs. They didn't look at Ryeland or Oporto; they were in a hurry. They were bearing thick leather dispatch cases the same color as their uniforms. Bright blue uniforms! Why, that was the uniform of the special guard of -- Ryeland lifted his eyes to look, unbelieving. At the roof of the shed, amid the ugly web of ducts and burst forth, shining down on the sphere. And across its top, forty feet above the platform, there was a gleaming blue star and under it, etched in crystalline white, the legend: The special car they had been waiting for was the private car of the Planner himselfl T he first thought that crossed Steve Ryeland's mind was: Now I can present my case to the Planner! But the second thought canceled it. The Planner, like every other human on Earth or the planets, was only an instrument of the Planning Machine. If clearance ever came to Ryeland -- if the collar came off his neck -- it would be because the Machine had considered all the evidence and reached a proper decision. Human argument would not affect it. With an effort, Ryeland put the thought out of his mind; but all the same, he couldn't help feeling a touch better, a degree stronger. At least it was almost certain that their destination would not be the Body Bank! "What was that compartment number?" Oporto sighed. "#. Can't you remember anything? Train # -- the product of the two primes, # and #. Track #, their difference. Compartment #, their last digits in reverse order. That's an easy one -- " But Ryeland was hardly listening. The intimate acquaintance that Oporto seemed to have with all numbers was no longer news to him, and he had more urgent things on his mind. He led the way up the ramp and into the Planner's subtrain car. A woman in the blue uniform of the guard passed them, glanced at their collars and frowned. Before Ryeland could speak to her she had brushed past them busily and was gone. It said a lot for the efficiency of the collars, he thought wryly, that she didn't bother to find out what two Risks were doing wandering freely around the Planner's private car. There was no cause for worry; if they took a wrong turning, the collars would make it their last. But by the same token, it was highly dangerous for them to wander around. Ryeland stopped short and waited until someone else came by. "Sir!" he called. "Excuse me!" It was a straight, gray-haired man in the blue of the Planner's guard, wearing the silver mushrooms of a Technicorps colonel. "What is it?" he demanded impatiently. "We're ordered to compartment #," Ryeland explained. The colonel looked at him thoughtfully. "Name," he snapped. "Ryeland, Steven. And Oporto." "Umm." Presently the colonel sighed. "All right," he said grouchily. "Can't have you messing up the IF Planner's car with your blood. Better get secured. This way." He led them to a tiny room, ushered them in. "Look," he said, flexing the knob of the door. "No lock. But I should warn you that most of the corridors are radar-trapped. Do you understand?" They understood. "All right." He hesitated. "By the way. My name's Lescure, Colonel Pascal Lescure. We'll meet again." And he closed the door behind him. R yeland looked quickly around the room, but it wasn't the splendor of its furnishings or the comfort of its appointments that interested him. It was the teletype. Quickly he reported in for himself and Oporto. The answer came: R. Action. Await further orders. Oporto was beginning to look flushed and to tremble. "Always it's lige this," he said thickly. "I ged a cold and if I don't tage care I'm sick for weegs. I'm feeling lighdheaded already!" He stood up, tottering. , Ryeland shook his head. "No, you're not lightheaded. We're moving." The hand at the controls of the subtrain knew whose private car he was driving down the electrostatic tubes. The giant sphere was being given a featherbed ride. They had felt no jar at all on starting, but now they began to feel curiously light. That was intrinsic to the way of travel. The subtrain waj arrowing along a chord from point to point; on long hauls the tunnels dipped nearly a thousand miles below the earth's surface at the halfway mark. Once the initial acceleration was over, the first half of a trip by subtrain was like dropping in a superspeed express elevator. Absently Ryeland reached out an arm to brace Oporto as the little man weaved and shuddered. He frowned. The helical fields which walled the tunnels of the subtrains owed part of their stability to himself. On that Friday night, three years before, when the Plan Police burst in upon him, he had just finished dictating the specifications for a new helical unit that halved hysteresis losses, had a service life at least double the old ones. And yet he could only remember that much and no more. Had something been done to his mind? For the thousandth time Ryeland asked himself that question. He could remember the equations of his helical field theory that transformed the crude "magnetic bottles" that had first walled out the fluid rock, as early nucleonicists had walled in the plasma of fusing hydrogen. Yet he could not remember the work that had led him to its design. He could remember his design for ion accelerators to wall the atomic rockets of spaceships, and yet the author of that design -- himself -- was a stranger. What sort of man had he been? What had he done? "Sdeve," Oporto moaned. "You wouldn't have a drink on you?" Ryeland turned, brought back to reality. A drink! Oporto was feverish. "I'd better call the machine," he said. Oporto nodded weakly. "Yes, call in. I'm sick, Sdeve." Ryeland hesitated. The little man did look sick. While he was standing there, Oporto blundered past him. "I'll do id myself," he grumbled. "Ged out of my way." He reached with fumbling fingers for the keyboard, his face turned angrily toward Ryeland. That was a mistake; he should have been watching. In the unsteady footing he lurched, reached for the keyboard, missed, stumbled and fell heavily against the teletype. It toppled with a crash. There was a quick white flash from inside it and a sudden pungent smell of burning. Oporto got slowly to his feet. Ryeland opened his mouth and then closed it without saying anything. What was the use? Obviously the teletype was out of commission; obviously Oporto hadn't done it on purpose. Oporto groaned: "Oh, dabbit. Steve, where'd thad colonel go? Maybe he could ged me something..." "Take it easy," Ryeland said absently. The little man's condition was clearly not good but, in truth, it was not Oporto that was on Ryeland's mind just then. It was the teletype. Always, since the first days after school, there had been no move Steve Ryeland made, no action he performed, without checking in with the Machine. Even at the maximumsecurity camp there had been a teletype on direct linkage with the Machine, standing in one desolate corner of the bare barracks. He felt curiously naked, and somehow forlorn. "Steve," said Oporto faintly, "could you ged me a glass of water?" That at least was possible; there was a silver carafe and crystal tumblers, fired with gold designs. Ryeland poured the little man a glass and handed it to him. Oporto took it and sank back against a huge, richly upholstered chair, his eyes closed. Ryeland roamed around the little cubicle. There wasn't much else for him to do. The colonel had warned them against radar-traps in the corridors; it was not to be thought of that they would go out and take the chance of being destroyed by a single wrong move. For they were Risks; and the iron collars they wore contained eighty grams of a high explosive. A step into an area proscribed for Risks (and such areas were common all over the world) meant that a triggering radar beam would touch off the explosive. Ryeland had seen that happen once. He didn't want it to happen to him. B rig or no brig, this room was part of the Planner's private car and it was furnished in a way that Ryeland had not seen in three years. He fingered the drapes around a mock-window and reached out to touch the polished mirror of a hardwood table top. Three years ago Ryeland had IF lived in a room something like this. No, he admitted, not quite as lavish. But a room that belonged to him, with furniture that no one else used and a place for his clothes, his books, the things he kept around him. But in that life he had been a cleared man, with a place in the Plan of Man and a quota to be met. That life had ended three years ago, on that fatal Friday afternoon. Even now, after endless sessions of what was called reconstructive therapy, Ryeland couldn't understand what had happened to him. The vaguely worded charge was "unplanned thinking," but all his merciless therapists had failed to help him recall any thoughts disloyal to the machine. The only material evidence of unplanned activities was his collection of space literature -- the yellowed old copies of books by Ley and Gamow and Hoyle and Einstein that he had saved from his father's library. Of course he knew that the books were not on the list approved by the Plan, but he had intended no disloyalty with his hobby. In fact, as he had many times told the therapists, the special equations of the helical field were related to the mathematics of the whole universe. Without knowing the equations for the expansion of the universe and the continuous creation of matter in the space between the galaxies, he could not have improved the helical units for the subtrain tunnels. But the therapists had always refused to specify exact charges. Men under the Plan no longer had rights, but merely functions. The purpose of the therapists was not to supply him with information. But to extract information from him. The sessions had failed, because he couldn't remember whatever it was that the therapists had been attempting to extract. There was so much hat he could not remember... Oporto said weakly: "Sdeve, ged me a doctor." "I can't!" Ryeland said bitterly: "If the Plan wants you sick you'll have to be sick." Oporto's face  turned a shade paler. "Shut up! Somebody may be listening." "I'm not criticizing the Plan. But we have to stay here, you know that." "Ryeland," Oporto begged, and went into a coughing fit. Ryeland looked down at the little man. He seemed to be in serious trouble now. Evidently his system was an ultra-allergic type. Swept clean of disease organisms in the sterile air that blew down on the isolation camp from the Pole, he had been ripe for infection. He was breathing heavily and raggedly, and heat wafted off his forehead as Ryeland brought his hand near it. "Hold on, Oporto," he said. "It'll only be a little while. Maybe a couple of hours." At a thousand miles an hour, there was no place on Earth much farther away than that. "I can be dead in a couble of hours," said Oporto. "Can't you ged me a doctor?" Ryeland hesitated. There was truth to what the little man said. The Plan provided constant immunization for those who lived in areas exposed to disease; but the hypoallergic, like Oporto, might well lose that immunity in a few months. And Oporto had been breathing sterile air for three years. "All right," said Ryeland wearily, "I'll do what I can. You come with me, Oporto." Booby-trapped the halls might be, dangerous the trip certainly was; but it was life and death to Oporto. he door opened easily. Ryeland, half supporting Oporto, looked out into the corridor. No one was in sight. He sighed; he had hoped that they might find a passerby. Oporto babbled: "Steve, what are you doing? Led me alone. We can't go oud here -- the colonel warned us!" "We have to get you to a doctor, remember?" Ryeland scanned the corridor. At the intersections were curious canopied devices like the sun-shelter over a mogul's howdah. Perhaps they were the radar traps; at least, Ryeland couldn't imagine what else they might be. But there was one back the way they had come, and surely there had been no trap there No. Ryeland thought it out carefully. The fact that they had been allowed to get to Compartment # didn't prove anything at all; quite possibly the traps had been turned off to allow them to pass. In fact, thinking it over, it seemed certain that the one route that would be prohibited would be the corridor going back to the entrance port. "Oporto," he said, "do you see those doors? I think we can go into one of them." "You do, Steve? What mages you think so?" the little man asked sardonically. "Because there's nothing better to try," Ryeland snapped, and dragged the little man with him. Around his neck the iron collar weighed heavier than ever. If only he were a superman, like that Donderevo whose name stuck half-forgotten in his mind... whose fate, somehow, was linked with Ryeland's own. Who was Donderevo, exactly? The therapists had questioned him so persistently about the man that there had to be some strong reason. Did Ryeland know him? When had he last seen him? When had he received a message from him? What was the message about? Donderevo was the son of an explorer and trader who had gathered a fortune from the asteroids and the moons of the outer planets, and had built a commercial empire outside the Plan of Man. Ron Donderevo had come to Earth as a student of space medicine at the great technological institute where Ryeland's father was a mathematics professor. While he was there, the Plan had annexed the last reluctant asteroids and moons which had remained outside. Donderevo's father had been defeated in a space fight, resisting the annexation. Donderevo himself had been placed in an iron collar, as a result of a student demonstration. Then one day he had disappeared. The legends said that IP he had somehow removed the collar, and escaped into space beyond the power of the Plan. Ryeland remembered meeting him only once, in his own father's study. Ryeland was an eight-yearold Technicub. Donderevo was a grown man, a graduate student, romantic and mysterious with his knowledge of far planets and unknown space. But was that enough to account for the questions? Ryeland had denied receiving any message from him, but the therapists were unconvinced. In any event, whatever Donderevo might have been, Ryeland wasn't; his collar was on for good, or until the Machine relented. Ryeland wondered crazily if he would hear the tiny click of the relay before the decapitation charge went off. Would there be any warning? Would he know? Or would it all be over, literally, before he knew what was happening? The only way to find out was to open a door and walk through it. He pushed a door open, selecting it at random from the half-dozen in the corridor. Oporto broke away from hifn and, surprisingly spry, ran a few paces down the corridor, whirled and watched him with a face of tense anticipation. Ryeland didn't stop to think it over, he walked in the door; and nothing happened. Grinning, embarrassed, Oporto trailed after. "That one was all right, huh, Steve?" Ryeland nodded; but there was no point in recrimination, although there were a lot of things he had in mind to say to the man who had urged him to take a chance -- and then ducked out of the way of the possible consequences. But of more immediate interest was the room they were in. It was about the size of Compartment # and empty. It was quietly furnished: A narrow bed, a table with a few flowers, a large mirror, an array of cabinets. A girl's room, Ryeland guessed, but from the relative modesty of its furnishings, not the room of a girl who was part of the higher brass on this de luxe subtrain. Possibly a secretary's room; perhaps a maid's. Whoever she was, she wasn't in. But there was another door, leading to a flight of steps. This time Ryeland didn't wait for Oporto. He caught his breath and held it, and when he had passed through and established once again that that particular door was not radar-trapped, he tasted salt and acid on his lip. He had bitten hard enough to draw blood. But he was through. The stairs were steep, but it was easy enough to help Oporto up them, with the plunging of the car taking pounds off their weight. They came out into another room, also empty and small. But this one was sumptuously furnished. It seemed to be a woman's dressing room. It was white and gold, with ivory-backed brushes and combs on a little vanity table, before a gold-rimmed oval mirror. The stairs, Ryeland guessed, were for the use of the personal maid to whoever used this room. And he heard someone singing. R yeland took a deep breath and called out: "Hello there! Do you hear me? I'm looking for a doctor!" There wasn't any answer. The singing went on, a girl's voice, clear and attractive; she was singing for her own amusement. Every once in a while she would go back and repeat a phrase, pause, then start again aimlessly. And under the singing was' a sort of musical cooing accompaniment. Ryeland looked at Oporto, shrugged and pushed the door open. They looked into a room that was green and silver. Its walls swam with fading, shifting green light. In the center was a round silver tub, six feet across, partly recessed into the floor. From the mouths of carved crystal dolphins tiny jets of perfumed warm water leaped and splashed, in a foam of bubbles, into the tub. And above the thick blanket of foam protruded one knee, the head and the arms of the most beautiful girl Ryeland had ever seen. "I -- I beg your pardon," he said, awkward and disturbed. She turned her head and looked at him calmly. On her wet, white shoulders were perched a pair of -- birds? No. They were shaped like birds, like doves, but they were made of metal; their feathers were fine silver scales; their eyes were red-lit jewels. The metal things moved restlessly, as the little eyes poked hotly at Ryeland and Oporto. They cooed soft threats, and the rustle of their wings was like thin whispering bells. Oporto opened his eyes, stared and emitted a strangling sound. "She -- She -- " He swallowed and clutched at Ryeland. "Steve, it's the Planner's daughter!" he gasped, and flung himself to the floor. "Please!" he begged, writhing toward her. "Please, we didn't mean to bother you!" But the approach must have alarmed her. Not very much; for she didn't raise her voice; but she stopped singing in the middle of a note and said, quite softly: "Guards." There must have been a microphone to pick up her words, for there was a sudden commotion outside. But more than that, she had defenders nearer still. The doves on her shoulders leaped into the air and flung themselves at the prostrate IF little man. Sharp beaks tore, wingtips like knives beat at him. The door opened and four tall women in the blue of the Planner's guard raced in. n D eath had not been far from Steve Ryeland for these three years. It had worn the neat white smock of Dr. Thrale, the fat, bald, oily man who had been his chief therapist. It had whispered in the soft, asthmatic voice of Dr. Thrale, warning him a thousand times that he stood in danger of the Body Bank, unless he could recall a message from Ron Donderevo, unless he could find the right answers to nonsense questions about a string of words and names that meant nothing to him -- spaceling, reefs of space , Donderevo, jetless drive. Death had taken other forms. The concealed trigger of a radar trap, the menacing horns of a radarheadset, the more subtle and more worrisome peril of orders to the Body Bank; these were the deaths he had known and learned to live with. These women, though, carried projectile weapons, not radar. Queer, thought Ryeland, even in that moment, for if carried through the thought indicated that there were some dangers to the person of the Planner's daughter that did not come from classified Risks like himself. Could ordinary citizens -- cleared citizens -- be dangerous to the Plan? But there was no answer to that question just then. Oporto was screaming under the attack of the silvery doves, the woman guards were bearing down on them. The girl stopped them all with a single word. "Wait." She swept a mound of bubbles away from her face to see better, exposing a throat of alabaster. Her eyes were greengray and serene. She looked very lovely and very young. She caught Ryeland completely undefended. In the isolation camp there had been no women -- not even a pinup picture; and here he was in the presence of a most beautiful woman, in what should have been the privacy of her bath. Apart from everything else, she could hardly have been unaware of the shattering effect she had on him. But she seemed completely at ease. She said, in a voice more polite than curious: "What do you want?" Ryeland coughed. "This man needs a doctor," he said hoarsely, looking away. The first of the female guards laughed sharply. She was tall, brunette; a heroic figure of what might have been a lovely girl, if reduced ten per cent in all dimensions. She said in a voice that just missed being baritone: "Come on, Risk! We'll take care of you and your friend too!" But the girl in the tub shifted position lazily. She waved an arm through the foam, watched the bubbles billow in slow concentric waves and said: "Never mind, Sergeant. Take the sick man to a doctor, if that's what he wants. Leave the other one here." "But, Madam! The Planner -- " "Sergeant," said the gentle voice, not raised at all; the sergeant turned almost white. She gestured at the others; they half carried Oporto out. The door closed behind them, cutting in twain a look of pure hatred and contempt that passed from the sergeant to Ryeland. The doves, which had been describing precise circles in the air, shook themselves and returned to the girl's shoulders. Their hot small eyes never left Ryeland, but after a moment they began to coo again. "You're an iron-collar man, aren't you?" the girl asked suddenly. Ryeland nodded. "A risk. Yes." "I've never spoken to an ironcollar man " she said thoughtfully. "Do you mind if we talk? I'm Donna Creery. My father is the Planner." "I know." Suddenly Ryeland was aware of his rumpled denims, of the fact that he was an intruder on this girl's bath. He coughed. "Don't you think your father -- T mean, I don't mind if we talk, but -- " "Good," said the girl, nodding gravely. She shifted position to get a better look at him. The bubbles rippled wildly. "I was afraid you might be sensitive about it," she told him. "I'm glad you're not. What's your name?" Ryeland raised his chin and spread the dollar of his denim shirt to display the iron band. "Sfeven Ryeland," she read, squinting to make out the glowing scarlet letters with his name and number. "Why, I think I know that name. A doctor? No. A rocket pilot?" "I am a mathematician, Miss Creery." She cried: "Oh, of course! Your folder is on my father's desk. I saw it this morning, when we were leaving Copenhagen." A n anxious eagerness took his breath. For three years he had been trying to learn the charges against him. The therapists had refused to give him information. Their questions had been carefully phrased to tell him nothing -- they had asked him a thousand times what the word spaceling meant, and punished him more then once for guessing that it meant an inhabitant of space. "Did the folder tell -- " He gulped. "Did it specify any charges against me?" Her greenish eyes surveyed him, unalarmed. "You displayed unplanned interests." "Huh? What does that mean?" "You possessed a secret collection of books and manuscripts, which had not been approved by the machine." "No, I didn't!" A cold breath touched the back of his neck. "There has been some terrible mistake -- " "The Planning Machine permits no mistakes," she reminded him gravely. "The titles of the forbidden books were listed in the folder. The authors were scientists of the wicked times before the Plan. Einstein. Gamow. Hoyle -- " "Oh!" He gasped. "Then those were just my father's books -- a few that I saved. You see, when I was a kid I used to dream of going to space. I've met Ron Donderevo. I IF wanted to pilot a spaceship, and discover new planets. The Machine killed that dream." He sighed. "It transferred me out of the Technicorps and reclassified me as a research mathematician. It assigned me to an installation somewhere underground -- I don't know where it was; we were not allowed even to guess whether we were under dry land or the ocean floor or the polar ice. I don't remember, even, if I ever guessed. My memory has... holes in it. I had two helpers -- a teletype girl and a little man named Oporto, who is a sort of human computing machine. The Machine sent us problems, like the problem of hysterisis loss in the subtrain tunnels. They were problems the Machine couldn't answer, I suppose -- even it doesn't know quite everything. Anyhow, we solved the problems. "Of course I wasn't supposed to need reference books, because I could ask the Machine for any fact I wanted. But for the sake of efficiency it had let me keep a few handbooks, and I had brought those books of my father's among them." He smiled .at her hopefully. "You see, for a man who had set his heart on space, life in a tunnel isn't very exciting. For a sort of hobby, I read those books about space. They were full of old theories about the nature of the universe. Using modern mathematics, I worked out a new set of equations to describe the expanding universe and the continuous creation of matter in the space between the galaxies -- " Her frown checked him. This was not quite the sort of talk for a young girl in her bath! "But that was not unplanned," ha finished desperately. "It was just a harmless hobby. In fact, it was useful to the Plan. The equations that I used in improving the helical field units were derived from the equations that describe the oontinuous creation of matter and space." "And that's what made you a risk?" She looked at him thoughtfully and frowned. "You don't look dangerous." He could find no answer to that He waited while she waved a hand absent-mindedly. One of the doves left her shoulder to fly, tinkling, to the crystal dolphin. It pecked precisely at a fin-shaped lever on the dolphin's back, and obediently the spray of perfumed water dwindled away. Ryeland watched, more than half lulled by the scent of lilac and the strangeness of his surroundings. The room was warm but not steamy; invisible ducts must be sucking the moisture out  Are you dangerous?" the girl asked suddenly. TJ ydand said: "No, Miss Creery." IV He hesitated, wondering how to explain it to this child. "The collar isn't a punishment. It's a precaution." "Precaution?" He said steadily: "The Machine has reason to believe that under certain circumstances I might work against the Plan of Man. I have never done anything, you must understand that. But the Machine can't take chances, and so -- the collar." She said wonderingly: "But you sound as though you approve of it!" "I'm loyal to the Plan!" She thought that over. Then: "Well, aren't we all? But the rest of us don't wear iron collars." He shook his head. "I never did anything that was against Security." "But perhaps you did something that wasn't -- quite?" Ryeland grinned. She was amazingly easy to get along with, he thought; the grin became a smile -- a real one, and the first he had worn in some time. "Yes," he admitted, "I did something that wasn't. There was a girl." "Steven, Steven!" Donna Creery shook her head mock-ruefully. "Always a girl. I thought that was only in stories." "In real life too, Miss Creery." He was almost relaxed... Then, abruptly, her mood changed. "Your folder contains another specification," she rapped out. "You are charged with concealing information about a device which is dangerous to the security of the Plan of Man." "But I'm not!" he protested desperately. "Somebody has made a mistake -- in spite of the Machine. For three years the therapists in the maximum security camp have been working me over, trying to extract information that I don't have." Her eyes widened, with a calm concern. "What kind of information?" "I'm not sure." He winced, with remembered pain. "They were careful not to give me hints, and they punished me for guessing. "They questioned me about a list of words," he said. "They strapped me down, with electrodes clamped all over me, recording every reaction. times. Spaceling. Reefs of space . Fusorian. Pyropod. Jetless drive. And two names -- Ron Donderevo and Daniel Horrock. "Putting all those words and names and other clues together, I guessed that the therapists thought that Horrock had brought me a message from Donderevo. A message from space, about things called reefs and spacelings and fusorians. Particularly, about something called a jetless drive. That was what they were trying to dig out of me -- how to build a jetless drive." She frowned. "What is a jetless drive?" "There isn't any," he said. "Because a jetless drive would be a system of reactionless propulsion. Crackpots for three hundred years have been trying to invent such a system, but everybody knows it would be a violation of the Third Law of Motion. It's as impossible as pushing a rowboat forward without pushing the water back." "I see." She was nodding gravely. "Impossible as creating new atoms and new space between the galaxies." H e looked at her sharply. "But I couldn't have had a message from Horrock -- or anybody else," he insisted desperately. "Not when they seem to think I did. On the Friday it happened, Oddball Oporto and the teletype girl had been with me all day. We were work'F mg late, finishing the specifications for the new helical unit. I let Oddball go about eighteen hundred hours, because he was getting a headache. The teletype girl went out with him, to bring coffee and sandwiches for us. They hadn't been gone half an hour, when somebody knocked on the door. I thought it was the girl -- but it was the Plan Police." "That wasn't on Friday." Donna Creery's eyes were veiled, strange. "According to the records in your folder, you were taken into precautionary custody at eighteen hundred hours on a Monday afternoon. That leaves at least three days missing from your story." Ryeland gulped. "That couldn't be!" He shook his head. "Oddball and the teletype girl had just gone out -- " "I studied your folder with considerable care." She failed to say why. "I am certain that you were picked up on a Monday." Ryeland felt a tingle of excitement. This was more than he had ever been able to learn about the case against him. "I suppose it's possible," he muttered. "At first' I was in a place miscalled a recreation center, somewhere underground. We weren't allowed to inquire where. The therapy sessions went on around the clock. I had no way of knowing the time or the date. "But I still don't know how to build a reactionless propulsion system. And I still believe that the Machine has permitted itself to make a mistake." Donna Creery shook her head reprovingly. Ryeland stopped, the collar tight around his neck. This was crazy! Staying here like this with the Planner's daughter! He said abruptly, harshly: "Miss Creery, I'm interrupting your bath. I must go!" She laughed, like a shimmer of pale music. "I don't want you to," she coaxed. "But -- your bath -- " "I always stay in the tub in these subtrain rides, Steven. It's comfortable, when the up-grav drag begins to work. And don't worry about my father. He rules the world -- under the Plan, of course! But he doesn't rule me." She was smiling. She could hardly be twenty, Ryeland thought ruefully, but there was no more doubt in his mind that she knew she was a woman. She said comfortably: "Sit down, Steven. There. On the bench." One slim arm, wearing wristlets of foam, gestured at an emerald bench next to the tub. The doves moved nervously as he approached. Donna Creery said: "Don't be afraid of my Peace Doves." He looked quizzically at the silver-steel beaks. "Oh, I'm sorry they hurt your friend," she apologized, "but they thought he was going to hurt me. You see, even without the guard I am protected." She waved a hand, and faint music seeped into the room from concealed speakers. "What was the girl like?" she demanded. "She was beautiful," he said shortiy"And dangerous?" H e nodded, but under the heavy weight of the collar the stiff hairs at the back of his neck were trying to rise. Dangerous? This girl was far more dangerous to him. He had no right to be here. The Machine would not be blind to this. But Donna Creery said soothingly: "Tell me about her. Was she really lovely?" "I believed she was. She had long yellow hair and green eyes. Eyes like yours. And she was in the secret police, but I didn't know that until the day of the raid." Laughter pealed from the girl's lips, and the Peace Doves fluttered their wings fretfully for balance. "And she betrayed you. Are you afraid I might? But I won't, Steven, I promise." He shrugged. "I've told you. I suppose I was lucky, at that. I was sent to a maximum-security camp. It could have been the Body Bank." She tilted her head to ponder that, and he watched the red glints flow through the dark waves of her hair. A last she sighed and said, "And for that you became a Risk. But you should have been more careful, Steven. You should not have defied the Plan. And now you have to wear that collar. Can't you get it off?" He laughed sharply. She said seriously: "No, I suppose not. But if I were you, I think I might. You said you were a mathematician. If I were a mathematician, and wore the collar, it would be only one more problem for me. I would find a way to solve it." He said with a touch of anger: "The collar was invented by Colonel Zamfirescu, the best engineer in the Technicorps -- before he was salvaged himself. He thought of everything." "It's only a metal band, Steven." "The toughest armor plate in the world! And inside it there's a deIF capitation charge, fused with a hydrogen power cell -- it won't last forever, no, but it will keep full power for a century! And that's longer than I can wait. And the collar's booby-trapped. If I try to cut it open -- if I even try to unlock it, and use the wrong key, or turn it the wrong way -- it will kill me on the spot. Have you ever seen a decapitation charge go off, Miss Creery? I have." She shuddered, but she said: "If I were you, I would run away." "Not very far! Radar runs faster. And even if you could get away -- out to the Cold Planets, say, or to one of the orbiting stations around Mercury -- there's a timing device in the collar. It has to be reset periodically, with a key. If not -- boom. And you never know when; just that it will be less than a year." "Oh." She shook her head sadly. "Then you must take it off," she said wisely. He laughed out loud; he couldn't help it. The idea was preposterous! "Don't laugh, Steven. Ron Donderevo did," she told him. "Donderevo! What do you know about Donderevo?" She said, "Oh, a little. I knew him, you see, when I was very small. I remember seeing him with the collar -- and I saw him again, without." He stopped, staring. He began: "You saw Donderevo -- " But there was a sudden, harsh knocking at the door. "Miss Creery!" a worried male voice clamored. "The Planner has sent for that Risk!" Ryeland sat bolt upright. For a moment he had forgotten; the voice had brought him back to the realities of his life. The girl said, "You'll have to go, Steven." She whispered, and one of the Peace Doves restlessly rose frojn her shoulders and circled the room, its hot red eyes fixed on Ryeland. It touched the door, and without sound the door opened. "Be careful," the girl said gently. "And don't think too much about Angela." "All right," Ryeland said, numb, walking like a mechanical man to where the radar-horned officer of the Planner's guard waited for him, with an expression like malevolent granite. It wasn't until the door had slid silently closed behind him that he remembered he had never mentioned the name of the girl who betrayed him, his teletype girl, Angela Zwick. F or all of Ryeland's life the Planner had been watching him. That fearless, genial, giant face had looked down on him from stereo posters in the home of his parents, the barracks of the Technicubs, the classrooms of his school -- in every public square, and all the laboratories and buildings where he had worked. Ryeland knew that face as well as his own father's -- better -- and so did every other human alive. The Planner sat behind a great hardwood desk in a chair that was all air cushions and cunning springs. He was looking absorbedly through a folder of papers on his desk. Uncomfortably Ryeland stood waiting. There was no resemblance between the Planner and his daughter. She was brunette and lovely, with the face of a child saint; he was square and silver, a lion's face. His hair was short, gray-white; it sat firmly on his head like a collision mat. And over his head, on the back of the great chair, a steel-gray falcon sat frozen; but it was not an ornament, for slowly metal-sheathed eyes opened and tiny bright red eyes peered out at Ryeland. At last the Planner looked up and smiled. He said in a velvet bass voice: "Son, don't you check in?" Ryeland jumped. "Oh. Sorry, sir." He hurried over to the gold-plated teletype and tapped out his name. The station plate on the machine The old man chuckled. "You're Steven Ryeland. I saw you once before, but you wouldn't remember that." Ryeland started. "Sir?" "It was a long time ago, boy," the Planner said contemplatively. "I visited your home; you were a baby. Don't look shocked. You see, I knew your father." Ryeland staggered. He was half floating as the hurtling sphere reached maximum velocity, hundreds of miles under the open air; but it was not that which made him dizzy, nor even the fact that he had not eaten for nearly a full day; it was this man on the other side of the desk. He said incredulously: "Sir, my parents never said anything about knowing the Planner. Surely they would have been proud " The Planner laughed, a glorious huge laugh. "My boy," he cried, "it's a wise child, eh? And you are not that wise. You don't know much about your parents. They were not proud of knowing me at all; they were ashamed because, you see, your father hated me very much." He nodded, the smile drying on his IF face. His voice became like the rasp of a file. "Your father was an enemy of the Plan!" he barked. "Sir," Ryeland protested, "I don't know anything about my father. He disappeared when I was young. And my mother never told me that." "She wouldn't," the Planner said savagely. "She was a dangerous woman, but not a stupid one. Neither of your parents were stupid, Ryeland; so how is it that you are?" Ryeland said baffled: "Sir?" "You're a Risk!" rasped the Planner. "You should not have dared defy the Plan. That was an act of stupidity!" Ryeland took a deep breath. Perhaps this was his chance to get his case on the record. He began: "Sir, let me explain. I had no intention of defying the Plan. There was a girl who reported me, and the Machine reclassified me as a Risk. I think this was an error, but -- " "You question the Machine?" "No, sir. Not the Machine, but the information that -- " "Never mind!" snapped the Planner. "I don't want you to incriminate yourself further. You are your father's son, and you, must remember that everything you do is suspect for that reason. I t took Ryeland's breath away. For a moment he couldn't speak. He stood there, weaving slightly in the unsteady footing as the sphere rolled restlessly about in the beginning of its up-drive back to the surface. Then he burst out: "Sir, do I understand you? You're saying that the Machine considers me a Risk because of what my father may have done before I was born! That's not fair. That's -- " "Fair!" bellowed the Planner, while the raven opened its tiny eyes and whirred restlessly over his head. "What sort of word is that, Ryeland? 'Fairness.' 'Freedom.' 'Democracy.' All those words your father used to use, they run in the blood. And they mean nothing. What does 'fairness' have to do with seventeen hundred and fifty calories a day? "Fairness," he sneered, "is used up, gone, spent! Do you know what your blessed ancestors did, boy? They mined 'fairness' and 'democracy' from the untapped resources of the world. They didn't invent them, they mined them -- just as the old farmers mined minerals from their cornfields, twenty crops of corn and a foot of soil! Well, the topsoil's gone now. And so is fairness and freedom. The world is a closed system now boy, and there isn't enough to go around!" The ferocity of the outburst left Ryeland stunned. "But -- but sir," he said, "surely the far planets offer new frontiers, new resources -- " "Be still!" barked the Planner, the square silver head thrust forward like a hammer. Above him the steelgray falcon whirred threateningly. The Planner glowered up at Ryeland, shifting his position in the compensating chair as the subtrain bgan its up-grav thrust. Weight came back to normal, then more than normal. Planner Creery said: "Ryeland, you're like your father. He never learned that the frontier was gone, but you must. The Plan of Man is based upon a systematic reduction of the pernicious personal liberties that almost destroyed our world. War! Dust bowls! Floods! Forest fires!" Each word was a foul epithet; he spat them at Ryeland. "We have to pay the bill for the waste that has gone before -- waste that your father, and those like him, would have spread. Never forget it, boy!" Ryeland stood silent. There was no reasoning with this man; there was a power and assurance that a gun might shatter, but no human power ever could. After a moment Ryeland said: "I haven't forgotten." Nor ever would, he thought. Not while the collar weighed around his neck. "The collar bothers you," said the Planner surprisingly, and grinned. It was as though he had read Ryeland's thoughts -- easy enough, Ryeland realized. "But we all wear them, boy. Each one of us, from the Planner down to the castoffs waiting for salvage in the Body Bank, must account to the Machine for every hour of every day; and each of us wears the Machine's shackle. On some of us they're intangible," he explained gravely, "and I admit that that does make a difference." only power, he realized; the man had personality, charm -- even to use on a Risk. "But if you like," the Planner added, off-handedly, "you can get that particular collar off your own particular neck." F or a moment Ryeland couldn't believe what he had heard. "Get the collar off, sir?" The Planner nodded majestically. He shifted his position again, touching a button. The massive, cushioned chair inclined slightly backward. The raven flapped with a tinkling metallic sound into the air, hovering, as a neck-rest rose out of the chair's back and enveloped the Planner's silver head. The subtrain sphere was well into its .upward thrust now. A faint squeal filtered through the soundproofing of the room -- testimony of the pressure that forced the car against the invisible, unfeelable wall of electrostatic force. It wasn't friction that made the squeal, but a heterodyne of vibrations from the generators that drove the car. Ryeland staggered as his weight grew. The Planner said suddenly: "We are all bound to the Plan in one way or another. I must try to find unbreakable links that can replace your iron collar -- or you must find them yourself; then the collar can come off." Ryeland said desperately: "Surely my work proves that I am loyal." "Surely it does not!" the Planner mocked. He shook his head like a great father bear with a naughty cub. "It is not what you have done already," he reproved, "but what you can do now that will matter. You have worked freely, Ryeland; work within the Plan. Always. Every moment. The Planning Machine will assign you a task. If you complete it -- " IF He shrugged, with an effort. Ryelnd was gasping now, the tag of his flesh a trap as the subtrain sphere forced its way up from Earth's molten center. He wanted to talk -- question the Planner -- perhaps leave the secret of those missing days. But his body refused. All around them was white-hot rock under pressure; only the electrostatic hoops kept it out; they were down many miles, but now rising. It was like an elevator again, but going up. The vertical component of the sphere's speed was rapidly reaching a hundred and fifty miles an hour; and even the Planner's voice, cushioned and protected as he was, began to grow hoarse and slow. "You'd better go now, Ryeland," he grumbled. "But would you like to know what your task will be?" Ryeland didn't answer -- he couldn't; but his eyes answered for him. The Planner chuckled slowly. "Yes, of course. The Machine thinks you can handle it. It sounds -- Well," said the Planner thoughtfully, "we each have our part to play, and mine is not necessarily to understand everything the Machine requires. Your task is to develop a jetless drive." Ryeland rocked, and clutched frantically at the edge of the Planner's huge desk. "A -- a jetless drive?" The Planner looked somberly amused. "I see," he said. "Perhaps your task does not include understanding it either? But that is what the Machine asks of you." "You mean -- " Ryeland tried to recover his breath. "You mean, a reactionless propulsion system?" "Precisely." "Do you know that your torture experts -- you reconstruction therapists -- have been trying for three years to make me tell them how to build a jetless drive? They seem to think I know how." "I know." The big mn shrugged. "I know their efforts failed. The Machine had received information that you had designed such a mechanism. Apparently that information was mistaken. But the past three years have made such a device more than ever essential to the security of the Plan -- more than ever dangerous to the Plan, if it should fall into unfriendly hands. "The Machine requires a jetless drive. Its records of your abilities and achievements indicate that you are qualified to develop such a device. I have decided to disregard the evidence of your unplanned behavior, the problem of whether your amnesia is real or assumed, voluntary or not. If you want to come out of your collar in one piece, you will design a working method of reactionless propulsion. Now," he said in an exhausted voice, "you must go." Through a haze Ryeland saw him make a faint motion with the huge gnarled hand that lay on the arm of his chair. The raven shifted position ever so little and beat the air frantically with its steel wings. Across the room a door opened. One of the Planner's guard officers came in. He was a giant of a man, but he stepped very carefully under the thrust of the sphere's climb. "Ryeland," whispered the great old man behind the desk. Ryeland turned, half leaning on the officer in guard blu. "About my daughter," said the Planner softly. The squeal had become a roar, almost drowning him out. "Donna has a soft heart, which he inherited from her mother; but her brain she inherited from me. Do not attach importance to the fact that she allowed you to talk with her in her bath." And the old man's eyes closed, as the Planner allowed his head to slump back at last. in M achine Major Chatterji said comfortingly: "You'll like us here, Ryeland. We're a brisk outfit, brisk." "Yes, sir." Ryeland looked around him. He was in a steel-walled cubicle with a Security designation. He had no idea where on, or under, Earth he might be. "You don't have to worry about nonsense," the major chattered. "Get the work done, that's all we care about." Ryeland nodded. The little major moved with the youthful grace of a kitten. He wore the radar-horned helmet of a risk-pusher debonairely, as though it were part of a fancydress c#stume. He caught Ryeland's glance. "Oh, that," he said, embarrassed. "Confounded nuisance, of course. But you are a Risk and the Machine's orders -- " "I m used # it." "Not that you're the only Risk here," Major Chatterji added quickly. "Heavens, no! Some of our best men, and all that." Ryeland interrupted, "Excuse me, Major." He bent to the teletype and rapidly typed out his identification number and the fact that he had arrived. Without delay the teletype rapped out: R. Information. Machine Major Chatterji is authorized # tc reconsider your status. Action. Requisition necessary equipment for expansion of equations re unified force field and steadystate hypothesis. Ryeland frowned. Major Chatterji, peeking over his shoulder at the gray teletype, cried: "At once, Steve! Oh, we move fast here. I'll have a six-deck calculator and a room to put it in before you can change your clothes, I'll bet you a lakh of dollars!" Ryeland said: "I don't understand. 'Unified force field and steady-state hypothesis' -- what's that about?" But the major was cheerfully ignorant. Administration was his job; Ryeland would find out everything else in due course, wouldn't he? Ryeland shrugged. "All right. But I won't need the calculator -- not if Oporto is still around." "The other Risk?" Machine Major Chatterji winked. "Always stick together," he nodded. "I'll have him detailed to you." Ryeland looked again at the teletype. The truly important part of the message also needed some thought. Machine Major Chatterji is IF authorized to reconsider your status . Then this man here, with the liquid black eyes and the lean, hooked nose, this was the man who could turn the key that would unlock the iron collar? Or was that the wrong assumption to make? The Machine was always exact. But sometimes the mere human who read its message failed to understand the meaning. For instance, did that message mean that Machine Major Chatterji could clear Ryeland -- or did it mean that he could downgrade him... say from Risk to raw material for the Body Bank? It was a sobering thought. The faded unreality of everything in his past except his knowledge of science left Ryeland with a nagging sense of bewilderment and loss. "Why does the Machine need a jetless drive?" Uneasily, he put the question to Major Chatterji. "The ion jet ships are good enough to reach the planets -- and anyhow the Plan of Man seems to be retreating from space and burrowing into the Earth." "Stop it!" Chatterji warned him sharply. "Such speculation is no part of our function." Ryeland insisted, "The Machine seems to be afraid that a jetless drive in the wrong hands would be dangerous to the Plan. Whose hands could that be? The Plan has conquered all the planets, taken in the whole human race. Except for a few fugitives like Ron Donderevo -- " "Don't talk about him!" Chatterji looked shocked. "Our own function here is enough to keep us busy without any such unplanned talk." Ryeland shrugged and gave it up, and Chatterji at once reverted to his cheerful bustle. "We've got to get you settled," he beamed, his gold-rimmed glasses flashing. "Faith! Come in here, girl." The door opened. A tall blonde strutted in. She wore tight scarlet pants and a brief scarlet jacket. Two centuries before she would have been a drum majorette; under the Plan she had a more important role to play. "This is Faith, Steve. She's one of our Togetherness girls. She'll help you get adjusted here, I promise!" The Togetherness girl smiled a lacquered smile. She piped: " 'Perform your own function perfectly -- and your own function only.' That's our motto here, Mr. Ryeland." It was like a doll talking. "And a splendid motto it is!" Major Chatterji endorsed, beaming. "Get him started, Faith. And don't forget the Togetherness meeting at nineteen hundred hours." R yeland's mind was teeming with jetless drives and the steadystate hypothesis and three missing days and Major Chatterji is authorized to reconsider and the fact that the Planner had known about his interview with Donna in her bath. But this was important too; he swept the other things out of his mind and tried to pay attention to what the Togetherness girl was saying. "You'll like it here, Steve," she whispered, solemnly squeezing his arm. She smiled up at him, and steered him down a gray-walled concrete tunnel. There were no windows. "This is Point Circle Black. Sounds confusing, doesn't it? But you'll learn. I'll teach you!" Point Circle Black was the headquarters office, where Major Chatterji, the administrative officer, fussed endlessly over his problems of supply and personnel. "Point Triangle Gray." Faith sang, waving at an intersection ahead. "That's the medical section. Tests and diseases, injuries and -- " she giggled naughtily -- "supply depot for the Body Bank." Ryeland grunted. "Oh, that's nothing for you to worry about, Steve," she said reassuringly. "Trust Major Chatterji. You do your part and he'll do his; that's Teamwork." Ryeland mumbled, "I understand. It's just that -- well, I've had to face the chance of the Body Bank for three years now. I admit I don't like the idea of being butchered." She stopped, scandalized, her perfect eyebrows arched, her clear eyes wide. "Butchered? Steve, what an unplanned word!" "I only meant -- " "The Planned term," she said firmly, "is 'salvaged'. And you can't deny the logic of the Machine, can you?" She didn't wait for an answer. She was well into her set speech. "The Body Bank," she parroted, "provides the attack team with the necesary stimulus to insure maximum effort. If the effort is successful, the team has nothing to fear. If the effort fails -- " She shrugged winsomely. "The welfare of the Plan of Ijdan," she said, "requires that they must make their contribution in another way. That is, their physical organs must contribute to the repair of more useful citizens. That's Teamwork!" "Thanks," said Ryeland grumpily. The isolation camp on the rim of the Arctic Circle, he thought wistfully -- it had been hard and dull and uncomfortable; but at least he hadn't been exposed to lectures from teen-aged girls! P oint Triangle Gray was a Security designation; all the names were. The whole area was called Team Center. It might have been under Lake Erie or the Indian Ocean; Ryeland never learned. At Point Triangle Gray he was given his tests. He caught a glimpse of Oporto, looking healthy enough but somehow crestfallen; they waved, but there was no chance to speak as Oporto came out of one laboratory room while Ryeland was going into another. At least, Ryeland thought, the little man hadn't been salvaged. Then he forgot about Oporto for five rigorous hours. Point Triangle Gray measured his functional indices and his loyalty quotients with every test that he had ever undergone before and one or two that were brand new to him. The lab men stripped him and clamped him in their metering devices, while the interrogators demanded every detail of his life, back to the toys his mother had given him for his third birthday. In these tests he tasted the afterbitterness of those sessions in the IP therapy room at the "recreation center" -- those long, endless ages when he was punished and punished again because he could not make sense of the crazy questions the therapists flung at him. He dreaded, each moment now, that in the next moment it would start again. Someone would fling him a quesion about pyropods or Ron Donderevo. Someone would ask him about the missing three days in his life, or demand that he draw them the plans for a device he'd never heard of. But it didn't happen; the questions were all routine. In fact, every one of the questions had been asked him before -- some of them a hundred times. Every answer had long since been recorded for the memory drums of the Planning Machine. But the interrogation went on. His reactions were studied in blinding actinic light, and photographed by infra-red in what to him was utter dark. His body fluids were sampled again and again. Whole salvos of injections stimulated and calmed him, and for a short time put him to sleep -- while heaven knew what pokings by scalpel and probe investigated the muscle tensions of his innermost system. But at last it was over. He was dressed in new crisp scarlet slacks and tunic and propelled into the gray concrete corridors where Faith was waiting, the lacquered smile on her face and her eyes glad. "You've passed!" she sang. "But I knew you would. And now you're a full member of the Team." She led him away carolling: "Next I'll show you your quarters. They're nice, Steve! And then, oh, there's so much here! You'll like the Togetherness Canteen. You'll have wonderful work facilities. Everything is fine -- and, of course, that's only fair, isn't it? Because so much is expected of you people on the Attack Team. You're entitled to a great deal in return; that's Teamwork!" She led him about for an hour, and she did not stop chattering once. She took him to a sort of mess hall to be fed -- alone; he was late for dinner, due to the tests at Point Triangle Gray, and the others were all through. The food was General Workers A-Ration -- about the same as at the maximum-security camp, though somewhat less of it in terms of calories. But it was pleasant to be allowed to sit and smoke after the meal. And she showed him his quarters. a They were comfortable. A rather surprisingly soft bed, a bookcase (already Machine Major Chatterji had stocked it with conversion tables and reference books), a more than adequate chest for the personal belongings he had long since ceased to own. "Isn't it nice?" the Togetherness girl enthused. "But we'll have to hurry, Steve. It's almost nineteen hundred hours!" T he Togetherness Canteen was high over the maze of tunnels that comprised Team Center. Its gray concrete was liberally splashed with bright colors. It was full of light and sound and people. There were nearly twenty Togetherness girls as pretty as Faith; they danced with laughing officers of the Technicorps, sat with them at tables, sang with them around a piano. There were hurrying waitresses as pretty as the Togetherness girls, or almost, bringing drinks and light refreshment. And there were the officers -- Ryeland's new colleagues. They all wore the crisp scarlet uniform; and his heart bounded, for three of them at least, he saw, wore the same iron collar as himself. But they were laughing. One danced with a red-headed girl as tall as he, two were in a card game. The iron collar did not seem to weigh heavily on these Risks. Ryeland took a deep, wondering breath. Maybe this place was the place he had hoped for all those three years... One side of the room was an enormous window, twenty feet tall, made of armor-glass. Outside weathered cliffs were splashed with orange sun, nearly set. The tops of pines swayed in an unheard wind, and a far mountain slope was splotched with evergreens and golden autumn aspen. Faith touched his arm. "What's wrong, Steve? Afraid of high places?" He had hardly noticed the scenery; his thoughts had been on his collar. But he blinked and came awake. "I -- I didn't know where this place was, until I saw the outside." "You still don't know," she laughed. "Come along. You'll want to meet the Team leader." General Fleemer had big bulging eyes and a tight uniform; it made him look like a very important frog. "So you're Steve Ryeland?" The general pumped his hand, the bulging eyes glowing with friendly Togetherness. "Glad to have you, Steve!" He grinned and flicked the iron collar with a fingernail. It rang faintly. "We'll have that off you in no time. Give us results, we'll give you your clearance! What could be fairer?" He caught Steve by the other elbow, the one Faith wasn't using, and carried him off. Faith trailed along. "Want you to meet some of the others," he boomed. "Here. Pascal! Come over here. Steve, I want you to meet -- " "But I already know Colonel Lescure," said Ryeland. It was the grayhaired Technicorps officer who had conducted them to Compartment # on the Planner's subtrain. The colonel nodded, and took IF him aside for a moment while General Fleemer rounded up more of the Team. "I didn't want to say anything before -- but I knew you were coming here. And I'm glad. Your -- ah -- interview was a success, eh?" And he nudged Ryeland's ribs. It occurred to Ryeland that the colonel might not have been nearly as jolly with him if the interview hadn't been a success, but he let it pass. "Yes," he said, "the Planner was quite -- " "Planner?" Colonel Lescure winked. "I mean the other interview, son! She's quite a girl!" It seemed, thought Steve Ryeland, that there was hardly a human under the Plan of Man who wasn't aware that he had spent three-quarters of an hour with Donna Creery in her bath. "Over here!" cried the general, beckoning. "You too, Otto!" As Ryeland reached the general Colonel Otto Gottling stumped over, his face like a rock. He was a jet combustion expert, as it turned out; his chamber had powered the last twelve rockets built for the outplanet run. Everyone was a specialist and Ryeland found it uncommonly difficult to figure out where the specialties fit together. Colonel Lescure, he discovered, was Director of the Plan of Space Biology, for example. A major named Max Lunggren was an astrophysicist. There were two other mathematicians -- one an expert in number theory, the other whose name was vaguely familiar to Ryeland as the author of a paper on normed rings. (Coincidentally -- or was it coincidence? -- both of them wore the collars of Risks.) The third Risk was a food chemist, a fat, jolly man who owned a fund of limericks. But some hours later Ryeland received a clue, at least; the evening was not entirely devoted to Togetherness.  Morily mellow General Fleemer climbed atop a table and hammered it with his heel for attention. "A toast!" he bawled. "I give you Teamwork -- and the Plan!" There was a rousing roar. Fleemer drained his glass with them and then turned serious. "Some of you," he cried, "wonder what our Team Attack is aimed at. Well, you'll find out! But for the benefit of the new people, first let me review the overall philosophy of the Team Attack itself. It is the essential tool of our scientific progress, and too important to be taken for granted!" "Hurray for Team Attack!" bawled one of the iron-collar mathematicians, amid a giggle of the Togetherness girls around him. General Fleemer smiled, quelling him. He said: "Once upon a time -- so our Team historians tell me -- science was done by individual men. Some of you may think it is still done that way." He gave a frosty grin to Ryeland and the other Risks. "But that is all over. The turning point came with the Einstein Team, which met at a town called Hiroshima to attack the primary problem of atomic fission. "Unfortunately," the general said sadly, holding out his glass for a refill, "these pioneers were destroyed by the unexpected success of their first experiment with uranium fission. But the principle of team attack survived! "Since then the Plan of Man has refined the principles and polished the techniques of Team Attack. When the Plan of Man requires a new scientific discovery, a team is created to make it. Such a team is needed now -- and you are my Team, all of you!" There was prolonged cheering. Then Fleemer paused. He smiled, and it was a scorpion's smile, vastly out of character in that wattled marshmallow face. He said: "I'm sure you all understand why you can be counted on to do your best." He nodded merrily to Ryeland and the other iron-collar men. "When you succeed, you will learn that Teamwork operates both ways. When you succeed. But if you fail -- if you fail -- why, then... He trailed off, and looked somberly at the men for a second. Then he grinned and drew one pudgy finger across his non-existent neck. "Zzzzt! The Body Bank! But we won't fail !" There was a burst of laughter. Machine Major Chatterji leaped to a table, his glasses gleaming. "Three cheers for General Fleemer and the Plan of Man! Hip, hip -- " "Hooray!" The cheer was loud but ragged. "Hip, hip -- " "Hooray!" Louder now. The whole room was together. "Hip, hip " "Hooray!" Ryeland found himself thundering along with the rest. He couldn't help it. He had been born under the Plan of Man. He could not doubt it. It would have deprived his life of meaning, as the iron collar that was the Plan's gift to him had, for a time, nearly deprived it of hope. There was loud applause. And General Fleemer, still smiling, raised his hand. "What the Machine needs," he said, "is a new physical principle." He shrugged winsomely -- as best he could with those blubber shoulders. "I'm not a scientist, and I don't know just how tough this job is going to be. Probably some of you think it's going to be very tough. Well," he said, chuckling, "the rest of you are just going to have to convince them otherwise!" And he touched his finger jestingly to his throat. R yeland tried, but got little information from the others. It wasn't so much that they refused to tell; it was more that he couldn't understand. The Machine would give him a detailed directive, they assured him, and wouldn't he have another drink? And an hour later Faith offered to show him a short-cut home to his quarters. They linked arms and wandered off through the graywalled corridors. "Here's an area you've never seen," she caroled. "See that? Point Nexus. That's the Message Center." "Lovely Message Center," said Ryeland comfortably. Funny. Even the iron collar didn't seem as hard or as cold. She was a sweet kind of IF girl, he thought dreamily. Of course, the Togetherness girls were coached, reared -- all but bred for that. But she reminded him of the Fair Lost One, Angela -- about whom the Planner's daughter had known more than she should. But of course it could have come from his personnel folder, and -- "Point Crescent Green," sang the girl, pointing to another stenciled emblem on the wall. "Lovely," said Ryeland automatically, and then took a closer look. "But what's going on?" The girl hesitated. She stopped in the middle of a word and frowned at Ryeland. "I tell you," she said after a moment, suddenly gay, "maybe this short-cut isn't such a good idea. Back the other way there's -- " "No, but look," Ryeland insisted planting his feet as she tugged at him. It was quite late now, but there were a couple of guards in Team scarlet, and one of them was turning a key to slide back a massive, lead-shielded door. Beyond was the floor of an enormous pit, lit by a bright single light, high up. Ryeland recognized it for what it was: A rocket landing pit. There were the 'great spreading girder arms of the gantry, the enormous ducts for the jet-baffles yawned black in the floor. A piece of his mind catalogued the information that rocket landings commonly took place here; light were the enormous doors that would open to the sky. But there was no rocket in the pit. There was something else, something in a heavy metal cage. "What is that thing?" Ryeland demanded. It looked a little like the seals that Ryeland had seen sunning themselves on the rocks off the mrtaximum-security camp; but it was golden -- metallic gold, thegold of the setting sun on bright metal, as it lay bathed in the wash of harsh light from above. The thing was alive. It was, however, no animal that Ryeland had ever seen. It lay on the floor of the great metal cage as though exhausted by efforts to escape. The golden fur was bloodied and torn about its head. Some of the bars were bent and bloodstained. Whatever it was, it had fought to get free! The Togetherness girl said worriedly: "Come away, Steve. Please! Major Chatterji doesn't want anyone to see the spaceling until -- " She gasped, confused. She begged: "Forget I said that! I shouldn't have taken you this way at all, but -- Oh, please, Steve, come away." Reluctantly he let her lead him away. The guard had hurried inside and the enormous metal doors were closed; there was nothing more to see in any case. But what was it that he had seen? IV A t # hours the next morning the teletype rang him out of a deep sleep. Hardly stopping to open his eyes he leaped to answer. It clattered: Query. Is Steven Ryeland, Ryeland blanched and instantly tapped out his acknowledgement. All human instincts ordered him to add an apology, but the Machine was not interested in apologies, only in compliance with its rules. It rapped back at him without pause: Information. Steady-sate hypothesis rests on theory of Fred Hoyle English astronomer physicist #th century stating that clouds hydrogen gas are continually formed between stars thus replenishing matter converted into energy in stellar power processes. Action. Produce necessary mathematical statements showing when under what conditions process can occur. Action. Make statement as to feasibility additional mathematical statement providing basis for neutralizing or reversing hydrogen formation process. Ryeland stared. There was a brief tap at the door and the Togetherness girl danced in, carrying a tray with tea and toast and a glass of pinkish fruit juice. "Good morning, Steven! Rise and shine. I -- oh!" He impatiently motioned her to be silent; the teletype, as though that were not enough for him to worry about in a single transmission, emitted the whir of marking impulses for a moment and then clattered out a new message: Information. Experimental evidence available indicating existence of drive mechanism not subject to Newton Third Law Motion. Information. Said mechanism referred to as Jetiess Drive. Act ; 'n. Produce necessary mathematical statements providing basis for reproducing Jetless Drive in Plan space vehicles. Action. Review work of Colonel Gottling unified force field as necessary first step. Ryeland pulled the tape out of the machine as soon as it was finished and sat staring at it. Somebody, he reflected, had been transferring information from his forbidden books into the Machine! Gently Faith removed it from his fingers. "Breakfast," she scolded. "A bath. You'll think better when you're more awake!" Groggily Steve allowed himself to be propelled toward the bath, his mind a whirl of hydrogen clouds and non-Newtonian force fields. The steaming shower woke him. By the time he was dressed and sitting down to breakfast with the Togetherness girl he was alert. "Jetless drive!" he said. "But there can't be such a thing. Newton's law!" "Drink your tea, Steven," she said soothingly. "Would the Machine ask you to do it if it were impossible?" "But I can't -- well, what experimental evidence? I haven't seen any." The Togetherness Girl looked inconspicuously at the watch on her wrist. "Colonel Lescure will be waiting, Steve. Drink your tea." T he colonel was very crisp in his uniform and white smock. He said: "You're jittery, Ryeland. Relax." IF Steve touched his iron collar significantly. The colonel smiled. "Oh, sure," he said, "but you want to get it off, don't you? And the best way is to relax, because your first job is to listen. I have to tell you about the reefs of space." The reefs of space! Ryeland gulped and tried to relax. A numbing fog of bewilderment and pain swirled up around him, across the lost years at the maximum security camp. He was lying stretched on the couch in the therapy room, with the cold electrodes clamped to his wrists, and the blinding light blazing into his face. Dr. Thrale was standing over him, fat and gentle and apologetic, wheezing out the words spaceling and pyropod and jetless drive and reefs of space, and methodically charting his reactions. "Relax, Ryeland." The colonel's voice buzzed out of a great gulf of distance. "We must take this problem one step at a time. The first step is the information which I am to give you now." "Sure," Ryeland gasped. "I understand." He was trying desperately to relax. Perhaps this information would answer the riddle of those three lost days. "Let's have a drink;" the Colonel was suggesting. "Talking's thirsty work." Ryeland hesitated. Alcohol had always been forbidden, at the academy and at the isolation camp. "Come on," said the colonel, twinkling. "A transfusion won't hurt the story." He opened a cabinet and took out glasses and a little box. While he poured drinks, Ryeland urged: "Reefs of space? Meteor clouds, perhaps?" Pascal Lescure laughed. "More like coral reefs. Here." He touched glasses. "That's better," he said comfortably, tasting his drink, and he opened the little box. A collection of fantastic little animals modeled in plastic spilled out. Ryeland glanced at them only abstractedly; his mind was on what Lescure had said. "But coral is built by living organisms." The colonel nodded. "The reefs of space are built by living organisms, too -- working over vastly longer stretches of time." Ryeland set down his untouched glass violently, slopping it over. "What organisms live in space?" "Why," the colonel said seriously, poking at his plastic toys with a finger, "creatures very much like these. They were modeled from life. And before that -- the creators of the reefs themselves, simple little onecelled organisms, originating -- everywhere!" Ryeland forced himself to speak slowly, methodically: "The Machine's orders came this morning. I'm to investigate the steady-state hypothesis. And ever since then I've been thinking -- about Hoyle's steady-state theory, and about another speculation he made. That life was born before the planets were, created by the chemical action of ultraviolet light in the cooling clouds of gas and dust around the sun. But how could it survive? The clouds disappear as the planets form." "Life adapts," the colonel said heavily, and poked at his dragons. He took a fresh drink. "Leaving out the intangibles," he lectured, "life is a phenomenon of matter and energy. The Hoyle Effect provides the matter, in the clouds of new hydrogen that are always being born between the stars. And life makes its own energy." "How?" "By fusing the hydrogen into heavier elements," the colonel said solemnly. He flicked a switch. A screen slid down out of the ceiling. An image appeared on it, the image of little darting bodies, flashing with light, crossing the field of vision. The picture might have been one of pond life under a microscope, except for the difference in shapes... and for the fact that these creatures gave off a light of their own. "The fusorians," said the colonel somberly. "Hardy little things. They fuse hydrogen atoms and generate energy, and they live in space." Fusorians! Ryeland felt his body tense as though an electric shock had passed through it. He was conscious of the colonel's gaze on him, and tried to relax, but the colonel studied him thoughtfully for a moment. He said only: "No wonder you're excited." He blinked at Ryeland mildly. "This thing is big. It means that the planets are not lonely oases in a dead desert of emptiness. It means that they are islands in an infinite ocean of life -- strange life, which we had never suspected." "But why haven't any of them ever appeared on Earth?" Ryeland demanded. Infuriating how slowly Lescure spoke! It was life and death to Ryeland -- perhaps it was the answer to all his questions -- but the colonel treated it only as another lecture, and a rather dull one. The colonel shrugged. "Perhaps they drown in air. I suppose the heavier elements are their own waste products, and therefore poisonous to them." He took another pull at his drink. "Perhaps these creatures built the Earth," he said meditatively. "It accounts for the proportions of heavy elements better than the theories of the cosmologists. But of course it doesn't really matter -- not to the Plan, I mean." Ryeland frowned. There had been something almost disloyal about the colonel's tone. He changed the subject. "These things -- " touching the plastic models -- "they aren't fusorians?" "No. They're pyropods. They live in the reefs." Irritably the colonel waved a hand. The screen glowed with another picture. R yeland leaned forward staring. "Fairyland!" he breathed. The colonel laughed harshly. The view on the screen was of a delicate tracery of glowing vines and plants, where birdlike things moved effortlessly among the branches. "Call it that," said the colonel. "I called it other things when I was there. You see, there is a constant nev flow of matter into the universe. There is a steady rebirth of hydrogen between the stars. I know -- I've seen it!" IF Nervously he took another drink. "It was a few years ago. The pyropods had been seen, but none had been captured. The Planner ordered me out on a hunting trip to catch one." Rveland frowned. "Hunting? But the Plan of Man has no energy to waste on that sort of thing! Every calorie must go to some productive use!" "You're an apt pupil," the colonel said wryly, "but it was the Machine's decision, not mine. Or so the Planner said. At any rate, we took off for the planet beyond Pluto. Was there one? It was necessary to assume one, to provide a home for the pyropods -- or so we thought. We knew they had no home from Pluto sunwards... "It was a long trip. You know why interstellar flight has never been possible. There's power enough for us to reach the stars, but the difficulty is in finding the reaction mass to hurl away. Once you pass Orbit Pluto you begin to face those problems in practice. We were in the old Cristobal Colon, with hydrion jets. Our reaction mass was water. All we could carry was barely enough to land us on the hypothetical planet. We were to reload there for the flight home, if we found it." The colonel chuckled dryly. "We didn't find it," he said. "Then -- how did you get back?" Ryeland demanded, startled. "We blundered into something. What we called the Rim. Don't confuse it with the Reefs of Space -- miles yet. It belongs to the solar system, a scattered swarm of little asteroids, strung in a wide orbit all around the sun. A ring of snowballs, actually. Cold snow -- mostly methane and ammonia; but we found enough water to refill our tanks. And then we went on. The Machine's orders had been definite." The colonel shivered and finished his drink. "We went out and out," he said, mixing a fresh one, "beyond the Rim, until the sun was just a bright star behind -- then not even particularly bright. We were braking, on the point of turning back -- "And then we saw the first Reef." Colonel Lescure waved at the strange scene on the screen. He began to look alive again. "It didn't look like much at first. A mottled, lopsided mass, not much bigger than the snowballs. But it was luminous!" Ryeland found himself gulping his drink. Silently he held out the empty glass and the colonel refilled it without pausing. "An unearthly place. We came down in a brittle forest of things like coral branches. Thickets of shining crystal thorns snagged at our spacesuits when we went out exploring. We blundered through metal jungles that tripped and snared us with living wires and stabbed at us with sharp blades. And there were stranger things still! "There were enormous lovely flowers that shone with uncanny colors -- and gave off deadly gamma rays. There was a kind of golden vine that struck back with a highvoltage kick when you touched it. There were innocent little pods that squirted jets of radioactive isotopes. "It was a nightmare! But while we were reviving and decontaminating our casualties we worked out the natural history of the Reef. It was a cluster of living fusorian colonies! "We counted almost a hundred species. They must have grown from a few spores, drifting in the interstellar hydrogen. The rate of growth must be terribly slow -- a years. But the fusorians have time. "We looked at each other. We knew we had found something more than we had been sent for. "We had found a new frontier." Ryeland was on his feet, a sudden uncontrollable surge of emotion driving him there. "Frontier? Could -- could people survive out there?" "Why not? They're rich with everything we need. There's hydrogen for power, metal for machines, raw materials for food. We brought treasures back with us! We loaded our ship with every sort of specimen we could carry. Fantastic diamond spikes, and masses of malleable iron in perfectly pure crystals. Living prisms that shone with their own cold glow of fusion. Spongy metal mushrooms, in hundred-pound chunks, that tested more than ninety per cent uranium-#. Much more than critical mass! And yet they didn't explode, while tley lived. But one chunk did let go after we had jettisoned it in space, and after that we were careful to divide the masses." "So that's why the Machine needs a jetless drive?" Ryeland saw a ray of understanding, stabbing through the gray fog of confusion which had followed him from his suite in the maximum security camp. "To reach the reefs of space -- because they're beyond the range of our ion drives!" "I suppose so." Lescure nodded. "Though such thinking goes a little beyond our function." "But why would the Machine want to explore them?" Ryeland frowned at him. "Is there something in the reefs which could threaten the security of the Plan?" "Better not exceed our function," Lescure warned him. "I imagine the planets are pretty well protected from the life of space, by their atmospheres and their Van Allen belts. But of course there was the pyronod that rammed us -- " "Pyropod?" For a second Ryeland was lying on his couch in the therapy room again, with the cold electrodes IF clamped on his body and Thrale's apologetic voice lisping out the words that had been senseless to him then, jetless drive... fusorian... pyropod. Lescure's eyes had narrowed. "Ryeland, you appear unduly agitated. I don't quite understand your reactions -- unless you have heard this story before." "I have not." That, at least, was true. The therapists had always been careful to tell him nothing at all about pyropods or fusorians or the reefs of space. For another uncomfortable moment, Lescure stared. "Relax, then." At last he smiled. "Forgive my question. I asked it because there was an unfortunate breach of security. One member of my crew jumped ship after our return. He had managed to steal unauthorized specimens and descriptions of the life of space. Of course he went to the Body Bank." His eyes brushed Ryeland again, casually. "I forget the fellow's name. Herrick? Horlick? Horrocks?" Ryeland sat still, feeling numb. C olonel Lescure waved carelessly, and the screen retracted, shutting itself off. "Drink?" he demanded. Ryeland shook his head, waiting. Lescure sighed and poked through his plastic toys. "Here," he said suddenly. Ryeland took the tiny things from him, a two-inch figurine in black and silver with a wicked, knifeedged snout. Lescure's glazed eyes remained on it in fascination. "That's the one that attacked us," he said. "This little thing?" The colonel laughed. "It was ninety feet long," he said. He took it back from Steve and patted it. "Vicious little creature," he said, half fondly. "Evolution has made them vicious, Ryeland. They are living war rockets. They've been hammered into a horrible 'perfection, by eternities of evolution." He swept the whole menagerie back into its box. "But they are only rockets," he said thoughtfully. "They need mass, too. We've cut up a dozen of them, and the squid is as much a rocket as they Perhaps that accounts for their voracity. They'll attack anything, with a hungry fury you can't imagine. Mass is not plentiful in space, and they need what they can find. "At any rate, this one rammed us, and -- well, we had another dozen casualties." The colonel shrugged. "It was touch and go, because the thing was faster than we. But ultimately the survivors manned a torpedo station, and then the contest was over. "Even the pyropods have not achieved a jetless drive." "If there is such a thing," said Ryeland. Colonel Lescure chuckled. He looked thoughtfully at Ryeland, as though choosing which of several to make. Finally he said: "You don't think the Team Attack will succeed?" Ryeland said stiffly: "I will do my best, Colonel. But Newton's Third Law -- " Colonel Lescure laughed aloud. "Ah, well," he said, "who knows? Perhaps it won't succeed. Perhaps there is no jetless drive." Hilariously amused, though Ryeland could not tell why, he tossed the box of plastic figurines back in a cupboard. "Ugly little things, good night," he said affectionately. Ryeland commented: "You sound as though you like them." "Why not? They don't bother us. If they haven't attacked the earth aren't likely to start very soon. They aren't adapted for atmosphere, or for direct, strong sunlight. Only a few of the strongest ventured in beyond Orbit Pluto to be sighted, before our expedition. None was ever seen in closer than Orbit Saturn -- and that one, I think, was dying." Ryeland was puzzled. "But -- you spoke of danger." "The danger that lurks in the Reefs of Space, yes!" "But, if it isn't the pyropods, then what is it?" "Freedom!" snapped Colonel Lescure, and clamped his lips shut. V F aith carried Ryeland off to his next interview. "You liked Colonel Lescure, didn't you?" she chattered. "He's such a nice man. If it were up to him, the reefrat wouldn't be suffering -- " She stopped, the very picture of embarrassed confusion. Ryeland looked at her thoughtfully "What's a reefrat?" "Here's Major Chatterji's office," said Faith nervously, and almost pushed him through the door. Machine Major Chatterji got up, smiling blankly through his gleaming glasses, waving a copy of Ryeland's orders from the Machine. "Ready, Ryeland," he called. "We're all set for you now." Ryeland advanced into the room, thinking. "I'll need my computer," he said. "And someone to look up all the work that's been done on the Hoyle Effect, boil it down, give me the essential information." "Right! You can have three assistants from Colonel Lescure's section. And I've already requisitioned a binary computer." "No," said Ryeland impatiently, "not a binary computer. My computer. Oddball Oporto." Major Chatterji's gold-rimmed glasses twinkled with alarm. "The Risk? But Ryeland, really!" "I need him," said Ryeland obstinately. The Machine's orders had been perfectly clear. Chatterji surrendered. "We'll have to get General Fleemer's okay," he said. "Come along." He led Ryeland out through a short corridor to an elevator; Faith tagged after inconspicuously. The three of them went up, out, down another hall. Chatterji tapped on a door. "All right," grumbled a voice from a speaker over the door, and it swung open. They walked into a silver room, with silver walls and furnishings plated in silver. General Fleemer, in a silver robe that he was knotting about him, stumped in from a bedroom. "Well?" Machine Major Chatterji cleared IF his throat. "Sir, Ryeland wants the other Risk, Oporto, assigned to him." "For calculation purposes, General," Ryeland cut in. "He's a natural calculator. What they used to call an idiot-savant , or the next thing to it." The general looked at him through his deepset eyes. "Will that help you solve the jetless drive?" "Why," Ryeland began, "I haven't started on that yet. This is the Hoyle Effect. The Machine ordered -- " "I know what the Machine ordered," the general grumbled. He scratched his nose reflectively. "All right, give him his man. But Ryeland. The important part of your work is the jetless drive." Ryeland was startled. "General, the Machine's orders didn't give priority to either section." "# give priority," said the general sharply. "Get along with it, man! And get out." In the corridor, Chatterji vanished toward his office and the Togetherness Girl took over again. "A very fine man, the general, don't you agree?" she chatted, leading him back to the elevator. Ryeland took a deep breath. "Faith," ,he said, "there's something funny here. General Fleemer lives awfully well! And he seems to take it upon himself to, at least, interpret the Machine's orders. Is that customary, in Team Attack?" The Togetherness Girl hesitated. She glanced at Ryeland, then led him down the corridor without speaking for a moment. She stopped before another door. "General Fleemer," she said, "is a fine man. I knew you'd like him. And you'll like Colonel Gottling too, don't think you won't!" And without any more of an answer than that, she opened the door to Gotti ing's office for him and left him there. B ut Colonel Gottling proved himself very hard to like. He was a huge man with a face like a skull, the horned helmet over it. He stood fingering the controls of his radar-horns angrily as Ryeland reported in on the teletype. "Hurry up, man," he muttered, and clumped out of his office, motioning Ryeland ahead of him. "You're next," he snapped. "Lescure had his whacks at the creature and he failed. They wouldn't let me handle it the way I wanted! And now it's up to you." Ryeland said, "I don't understand. What creature?" "The spaceling! The reefrat! The creature with the jetless drive." Ryeland said humbly, "Colonel, I don't know what you're talking about." Gottling spread his bony hands and stared at the ceiling in exasperation. "What under the Plan is this? What kind of idiots do they salvage for top-priority Teams these days? Do you mean you never heard of the reefrats?" "Only the word," Ryeland admitted. "But didn't you just say 'spaceling'?" "Same thing!" Gottling stopped in an anteroom, jerking a thumb at a file cabinet. He barked: "Here! Here's everything you want to know about them. Everything from resting weight to the chemistry of what passes for blood. The only thing I can't tell you is what makes them go, and I could tell you that if they'd let me alone with the thing!" "But -- " "You fool, stop saying 'but'!" howled Colonel Gottling. "Look here!" He opened a door. Beyond was a big room, once a repair shop attached to one of the rocket pits, now hastily improvised into a laboratory. There were unpainted partitions, unconcealed electric wiring. Chemical lab benches held glassware and flasks of reagents, reeking acidly. There were transformers; an X-ray generator; various bulky devices that might have been centrifuges, biological research equipment -- heaven knew what. And the lab was busy. There were at least two dozen men and women in scarlet Technicorps smocks working at the benches and instruments. They glanced up only briefly as Colonel Gottling and Ryeland entered and checked in, then quickly went back to their work without speaking. Evidently the cheery good will among the brass didn't extend to the lower echelons. Colonel Gottling, in a good humor again, lighted a long, greentinted cigarette and waved at the room "It's all yours now," he grunted. "Temporarily." Ryeland looked at him. "Or permanently," grinned the colonel, "provided vou can tell us what makes the spaceling fly. Me, I think you can't. You look soft, Ryeland. The collar has not hardened you enough. Still -- Do you want me to tell you something about the spaceling?" "I certainly do," Ryeland said fervently. "All right, why not? It's fairly intelligent. Lower primate level, at least. It is a warm-blooded oxygenbreathing mammal which -- why do you look that way, man?" Ryeland closed his mouth. "It's just that I thought it lived in space." Colonel Gottling guffawed. "And it does! An oxygen-breather, living in open space! Amusing, is it not? But it possesses some remarkable adaptations." "Such as what?" Colonel Gottling looked bored. "You should have asked Lescure these questions. I am a rocket man! But first, of course, there is the jetless drive. Then there is something else -- a field of force, perhaps, which enables it to hold a little cloud of air around it, even out in interstellar vacuum." Ryeland said thoughtfully: "Could the two effects be linked?" "Could they? Of course they could, idiot! But are they? I do not know." But Gottling was mellowing; treating Ryeland like an idiot had put him in a good humor. He said condescendingly: "It is possible, of course. I have thought that myself. If the reefrat can accelerate its own body without reaction, perhaps it can also accelerate gas molecules centripetally, also without reaction. How can one know? But -- "But let us look at the spaceling," IF he said abruptly. "Then we can talk more better." H e led the way through the laboratory and out the other side. They went througn a steel door into a sort of airlock. Racks in the walls held bulky protective suits and red-painted emergency gear. A warning sign glowed on the inner door of the airlock: "It is safe," Gottling assured him. "The pit was deconned months ago, before the spaceling was brought in." He pulled a lever. Motors groaned; the inner door, an enormous lead-lined mass of steel and firebrick, inched slowly aside. Like a Viking in his radar horns, the colonel stalked into the landing pit, Ryeland following. The pit was an enormous circular cavern. Floodlights blazed on the blackened concrete floor. Even the decon crews, with all their foamants and air-blasting, had failed to remove the black breath of the jets. Ryeland recognized it at once. It was the pit of which he had caught a glimpse the night before, with the Togetherness Girl. He lifted his eyes, looking for the sky and a settling rocket instinctively; but the dark armored walls lifted up into shadowy mystery. The cranes and the stages above were dark shapes in the dimness. No light passed the enormous doors, hundreds of feet up, that closed off the sky. Gottling touched his arm and pointed. Out in the black concrete stood a room-sized cage. Inside the cage was a pale cloud of greenish light; and in the center of the cloud lying motionless on the bare steel floor -- "The spaceling," said Gottling proudly. It had struggled. At close range, Ryeland could see how frantically fierce that struggle had been. The steel bars of the cage were thicker than his wrist, but some of them were bent. Red blood smeared them, and matted the spaceling's golden fur. It lay gasping on the stainless steel floor. "She's skulking now, but we'll put her through her paces," Gottling bragged. Ryeland said: "Wait, Colonel! The thing's injured. In the name of heaven, you can't -- " "Can't?" blazed the colonel. "Can't?" His finger reached up and touched the buttons of his radarfield suggestively. Under the triggering radar horns, his skull-like face glowered. "Don't tell me what I can't do, fool! Do you want me to expand my field radius? One touch of this and there won't be enough of you left to salvage!" Ryeland swallowed. Involuntarily his hand reached toward the collar, with its eighty grams of high explosive. "That's better," grunted Gottling. He clapped his hands and called: "Sergeant, get busy! Goose her!" A Technicorps sergeant in red came trotting out of the shadows. He carried a long pole tipped with a sharpened blade. Black wires led from it to a battery box on his shoulder. The spaceling rolled its battered head. Its eyes opened -- large, dark, limpid eyes -- a seal's eyes; and they were terrible, it seemed to Ryeland, with suffering and fear. A shudder rippled along the creature's smooth, featureless flanks. "Goose her in the belly!" Gottling shouted. "Mr. Ryeland wants to see her do her tricks!" The spaceling screamed. Its cry was thinly edged with terror, like the voice of a hysterical woman. "Stop it," Ryeland gasped, shaken. Colonel Gottling blared with laughter. Tears rolled out of his piglike eyes, down the bony cheeks. Finally he got control of himself. "Why, certainly," he gasped. "You're next, as I said, eh? And if you believe you can tell us how the creature flies without even seeing her do it -- " he shrugged. Writhing on the floor of the cage as though it had already felt the prod, the spaceling screamed in fright again. Ryeland said hoarsely: "Just make him take that prod away." "As you wish," the colonel nodded urbanely. "Sergeant! Return to duty. Andyou, Ryeland, I will leave you alone with your friend. Perhaps if I am not here to eavesdrop, she will whisper her secret in your ear!" Bellowing with laughter, Colonel Gottling shambled out of the pit. A fter an hour, Ryeland began to appreciate the difficulties of the problem. Back in the file room, he found a summary of the existing knowledge of the spaceling; he took it to the landing pit and read through it, watching the spaceling, trying to allow it to become accustomed to his presence. The creature hardly moved, except to follow Ryeland with its eyes. The notes on the spaceling showed a fruitless and painful history. The spaceling had been captured by an exploring Plan rocket retracing the steps of Lescure's Cristobal Colon. A section of notes, showing how the capture had been effected, was missing; the account took up the story with the creature being brought into the hastily converted rocket pit. It had been chained at first, so that the first investigators approached it with impunity. Then the chains had been taken off -- and, in quick order, half a dozen investigators had been bashed rather severely against the bars. The spaceling did not seem to have attacked them; they simply were in the way of the thing's terrified attempts at escape. However, after that the observations had been conducted primarily from outside the cage. And mostly -- at least in the last two weeks, since Colonel Gottling had taken over charge of the specimen -- with the help of the goad. Or worse. There were reports of blood tests and tissue samples. Ryeland glanced at them, frowned and put them aside; they meant nothing to him. IF There were X-ray studies, and reams of learned radiologists' reports. Also of no value to Ryeland, whatever they might have meant to Colonel Pascal Lescure. Then there were physical tests. Dynamometers had measured the pull against the chains. Telemetering devices had registered the change in the recorded curves of its vital processes under various conditions -- at rest, as it "flew", and "under extraordinary stimulus," as the report primly put it. Meaning, Ryeland supposed, under torture. No radiation of any sort had been detected. And someone had thought to surround the creature with plumb-bobs to test for an incident side thrust; there was none; the plumbs were undisturbed. No thrust! Then this nonsense that everyone had been spouting so glibly was not nonsense after all! For if there was no measurable thrust against its environment to balance its measured dynamometer pull -- then the spaceling had, indeed, a true jetless drive. Ryeland looked up from the notes to stare at the spaceling, slumped in the bottom of its cage, its great eyes fixed on him. Jetless drive! He suddenly felt very small and, for all the Togetherness and the Teamwork, . for all the joint effort embodied in the Plan of Man, very alone. Jetless drive -- here in this creature lay the seeds of a fact which would destroy Newton's Third Law, change the shape of the Solar System. For unquestionably, with such a drive, the scope of the Plan of Man would widen beyond recognition. Out past the useless, frozen methane giants, the Plan would drive to the stars! Ryeland shook his head, confused For suddenly he didn't want the Plan of Man expanded to the stars. That word that Pascal Lescure had used -- "Freedom!" It did not seem to live under the Plan. A bruptly his reveries were ended; there was a rumble like thunder in the pit. Ryeland leaped to his feet, astonished, while the spaceling mewed worriedly in its cage. A blade of light split the dark above. He looked up, and a slit of blue sky widened. There was a confused clattering behind him and someone came running into the pit. The Technicorps sergeant, shouting: "Mr. Ryeland, Mr. Ryeland! Get out of the way. Some crazy fool is coming in for a landing!" The sergeant raced over to the cage and began frantically trying to unbolt its heavy fastenings, to push it on its tiny wheel to the side of the pit. There was a wild cataract of flame thrusting into the opening gates of the pit overhead, radiotriggered; and a tiny rocket came weaving in, settling on a cushion of bright white fire. Ryeland thought grimly: "Thank God it's only a little one!" A big one would have been the end of the spaceling -- and of himself and the Technicorps sergeant as well. But this little speedster had plenty of room to land without incinerating i them all. It was a one-man craft, built for looks and play; it dropped to the black concrete on the far side of the pit, a hundred yards away, and though heat washed over them like a benediction, it did them no harm. A sudden gale roared through the floor ducts, sweeping the rocket fumes away. A ramp fell. A slim figure in white coveralls ran lightly down the ramp and across the concrete, confusingly half-familiar birds fluttering about its head. Ryeland was galvanized into action. "Stop it!" he shouted. "Keep away from that cage!" The intruder ignored him. Swearing, Ryeland raced to intercept the stranger. He took a dozen angry strides, caught a slim arm, swung the intruder around -- and gasped. Silvery doves tore fiercely at his face and head. "Get your hands off me, Risk!" It was a girl -- that girl! He could see now that her white coveralls did not disguise her sex. Her eyes were a greenish blue, and very familiar eyes; her voice, though charged with indignation, was a familiar voice. She gestured, and the Peace Doves fluttered muttering away. "What do you mean?" she demanded, shaking his fingers off her arm. Ryeland gulped. It was the Planner's daughter, Donna Creery. "I -- " he began. "I -- I didn't know it was you! But what do you want here?" "Want?" The ocean-water eyes flashed. "I want to know what you people are doing -- what you think you're doing by torturing my spaceling!" VI T he girl stood staring at Ryeland. She was an entirely different creature from the lovely girl in the bubble bath, almost unrecognizable. The Donna of the Planner's private subtrain car was a teen-ager in the process of becoming woman, with the sad shyness of youth and its innocence. But this girl was something else. This was the Planner's daughter, imperious. And not a child. Ryeland took a deep breath. Planner's daughter or no, this girl was in his way. The only way he had of getting the collar off his neck lay through the creature in the cage. He said sharply: "Get out of here, Miss Creery. The spaceling is dying. It mustn't be disturbed." "What?" The Peace Dove, settling on her shoulders, whirred and muttered. "You aren't allowed here," he said stubbornly. "Please leave!" She stared at him incredulously; then, without a word, turned to the cage. "Here, sweet," she whispered to the great seal-like animal. "Don't worry. Donna's here." The spaceling lifted its head and stared at her with great, limpid eyes. Ryeland said harshly: "Miss Creery, I asked you to leave." She didn't bother to look at him. "There's a good girl," she cooed, like a child with a puppy. "Where's the damned door?" Ryeland was angry now. "You can't go in there!" He caught at her arm. It was like catching a tiger by the tail; there was a quick movement, too fast to follow, and she caught him a stinging blow across the face with her open hand. Sheer astonishment drove him back; and by the time he recovered his balance the Planner's daughter had found the catch and was inside the door of the cage. The spaceling came heaving seallike toward her, whimpering. I t was a bad spot for Ryeland. If anything happened to the girl, there was no doubt in the world that he would be held responsible. Gottling would see to that. And then good-by dreams of freedom. In fact, more likely it would be goodbye head! Ryeland swore angrily. The Peace Doves squawked and rose into the air, circling around him. He paused, searched around, found a length of heavy chain just outside the cage door. Heaven knew what it had been used for -- though the stains on it suggested one possibility. He caught it up and dove into the cage after the girl. "Stop," she said calmly. "I don't want to turn the Doves loose on you." "Then get out of here!" he demanded. The floor of the cage was slippery with a kind of odorous slime. Part of it was the spaceling's blood, undoubtedly, but there was more -- decaying small things that Rveland couldn't recognize; perhaps they were animals that had come with the spaceling. The stench was powerful and sickening, but Ryeland didn't let it stop him. If that girl could stand it, that dainty creature who lived in an atmosphere of lilac blossoms and ease, certainly he could! She was bending over the creature, reaching down to caress its golden fur. "Drop that chain." she ordered over her shoulder. "It's afraid of you." It flinched from her touch at first. Then it relaxed. It licked at her face with a long black tongue. A sudden rumble filled the cage, like the purr of a giant cat. There was an eruption of noise from outside. Colonel Gottling, radar-horned, deep eyes blazing fury out of the face like a skull, came racing in with a dozen men in Technicorps scarlet. "Get her out of there, you fool!" he roared, waving the electric prod at Ryeland. The spaceling saw him and the enormous purr stopped. The creature began to whimper and tremble. "Hold it!" cried Ryeland. "You're frightening the spaceling. It may attack Miss Creery!" But Donna Creery needed no help from him just then. On her knees in the bloody slime, she looked up from the torn, blood-crusted fur of the creature and her eyes were a hawk's eyes. "Colonel Gottling," she said in a thin voice that cut like knives. "I've been wanting to talk to you!" The skull faced colonel swallowed but stood his ground. "You must get out of there, Miss Creery! The IF annual is dangerous. It has already wounded half a dozen men!" "And what were the men doing to the spaceling?" The girl bent to pat the golden battered head. Two or three fat green flies were buzzing through the thinning cloud of light around the wounds on the spaceling's flanks. "Filthy," she said with scorn. "I want this cleaned up!" She stood up and gestured Ryeland ahead of her out of the cage. "I want a meeting of the whole Team," she said coldly, closing the cage door behind her, "and I want it now! Meanwhile, Gottling, have your men clean that cage out. And if I catch any of them using that prod again, I'll see how they like it used on themselves!" Gottling turned purple. In a voice stiff with self-control he said: "It is no longer my project, Miss Creery. Mr. Ryeland has taken it over." "I give it back," said the girl. "I have another use for Mr. Ryeland." Ryeland said, shocked: "But the Machine ordered -- " "I'll take care of the Machine," she said calmly. "Get started on this cage, you men! The spaceling needs her symbiotic partners and they're dying fast." She turned to the door. "Now let's have that meeting," she said grimly. "I want to get a few things straight!" T hey were back at Point Crescent Green. The Team was buzzing like flies around the spaceling's wounds. Donna Creery dominated the meeting. Major Chatterji tittered shyly and General Fleemer made half a dozen speeches on Teamwork; Colonel Gottling was in an icy rage and Colonel Lescure fluttered objections. But not one of them could stand up against the girl. She blazed: "If that animal dies, she's going to take the lot of you with her! I've got news for you. There's a shortage of salvage material at the Body Bank." She stared around the room appraisingly. "Some of you would make pretty good spare parts. Do I make myself clear?" "Quite clear," Genral Fleemer said humbly. "But, Miss Creery, our Team objective -- " "Shut up," she said mildly. "Yes? What is it?" Machine Major Chatterji said with great respect: "There's a message for you on the teletype." "It can wait." There was an audible gasp but the girl paid no attention. "From this date forward, Mr. Ryeland is in charge of the Team." General Fleemer choked and sputtered: "Miss Creery, a Risk can't be put -- " "Yes, a Risk can," Donna Creery contradicted. "Oh, all right. Here, I'll get orders for you." She walked through them to the teletype, calmly pressed the "Interrupt" switch -- another gasp swept through the Team -- and began to type. In a moment the Machine's answer rattled back: Action. Fleemer Team will comply with directive of Donna Creery IS "Anything else bothering you?" she demanded. "Nothing," croaked General Fleemer. His toad eyes bulged more than ever. "All right. Now the rest of you clear out. Ryeland, I want to talk to you." Whispering among themselves, but not audibly, the Team filed out of the conference room. Donna Creery stretched and yawned, the Peace Doves fluttering and cooing. "That's better," she said drowsily. "What are you doing?" Ryeland coughed. "There seems to be a message coming in for you, Miss Creery," he said. "There always is," she sighed. She stood behind him, one arm casually on his shoulder, reading: Information. Planner Creery en route from Mombasa to Capetown. Information. Donna Creery personal rocket refueled and serviced Information. London Philharmonic acknowledges receipt of opening season program instructions. Action. Request choice of soloist Beethoven piano concerto. Information. Moon colony Alpha-Six requests presence Donna Creery #th anniversary celebration. Information. "The usual run of thing," the girl said absently. "It can wait." She looked around. "This place depresses me. Haven't you got a room of your own? Let's go there." She didn't wait for an answer; she got up and beckoned Ryeland to follow. He was not surprised to find that she knew the way. There seemed to be very little this girl didn't know! B ut the situation was getting out of hand. This girl was giving orders to an entire Research Team. It wasn't her place to do that. Everybody knew that! Under the Plan of Man it was the Machine that gave orders. Human beings -- even Planner's daughters -- were supposed to do their own job (perfectly) , and nobody else's. That was plain logic, the logic of the Plan. He stood stiffly holding the door to his room, meditating what to say to her. She walked in, looking curiously about; he followed, leaving the door ajar. "Oh, close it," she said impatiently. "Don't you think my Peace Doves are chaperones enough?" She laughed at the expression on his face, threw herself at full length on his bed and lit a cigarette. The dislodged Peace Doves cooed complainincly and found roosts for themselves on the iron headboard. Grudgingly  Ryeland closed the door. He nodded to the teletype. "Don't you want to check in?" "The Machine'll find me," Donna Creery said cheerfully. "You watch." And, sure enough, the words were hardly out of her mouth when the keys beean to rattle away: Information. Marseilles Planning Council asks Donna Creery g ; ve annual Plan Awards. Information. Life Magazine requests permission use photograph Donna Creery on Woman of the Year cover. Information -- IF "Someone's always available to tell the Machine where I've gone," the girl told Ryeland seriously. "And if not -- well, the Machine can usually make a pretty good guess where I'll bo. It knows me pretty well by now." She spoke, Ryeland noticed wonderingly, as though the Machine were an old friend. But she didn't give him much chance to speculate on that; she said abruptly: "You're not much, Steve, but you're better than those others. Can you keep my spaceling alive?" "Your spaceling?" She laughed. "It's mine because I like it. Everything I like belongs to me -- that's the way I want it." She added seriously: "But I don't know yet whether or not I like you." He said, the back of his neck bristling, "I have my duty, Miss Creery. I'm going to do it! I hope it won't mean any further discomfort to the spaceling, but, if it does -- Do you see this?" He tugged angrily at his collar. "I want that lings to get it off, I'll do it!" She stubbed out her cigarette lazily. "That isn't what you told Gottling," she observed. "How do you know what I told Gottling?" "Oh, I know very many things. Why shouldn't I? The Machine goes everywhere, and my father is practically part of the Machine. And, oh, yes, I like the Machine, and everything I like -- " She shrugged winsomely. Ryeland stared. She was mocking him. She had to be. It was a joke in terribly bad taste, but surely that was all it was. He said stiffly: "Miss Creery, I don't appreciate that sort of remark about the Machine. I believe in the Plan of Man." "That's terribly good of you," she said admiringly. "Blast you," he yelled, pushed a step too far, "don't make fun of me! The Plan of Man needs the jetless drive, you silly little skirt! If the spaceling has to die so the Plan can discover its secret, what possible difference does that make?" She swung her feet to the ground and got up, walking over close to him. Her face was relaxed and sympathetic. She looked at him for a second. Then she said suddenly: "Do you still love that girl?" It caught him off balance. "What -- what girl?" "Angela Zwick," she said patiently. "The daughter of Stefan Zwick. The blonde, twenty years old, five feet four and a quarter, with green eyes, who became your teletype operator late one afternoon and made you kiss her that very night. The one who turned you in. Do you still love her?" Ryeland's eyes popped. "I -- I know you've got special sources of information," he managed, "but, really, I had no idea -- " "Answer the question," she said impatiently. He took a deep breath and considered. "Why, I don't know," he said at last. "Perhaps I do." Donna Creery nodded. "I thought so," she said. "All right, Steve. I thought for a moment -- But, no, It wouldn't work out, would it? But I admire your spirit." Ryeland took a deep breath again. This girl, she had a talent for confusing him. It wasn't possible for him to keep up with her, he decided, it was only possible for him to cling to the basic facts of his existence. He said stiffly: "It doesn't take spirit to defend the Plan of Man. If the Plan needs to learn the secret of the jetless drive, that's my plain duty." She nodded and sat again on his bed, the Peace Doves settling gently on her shoulders. "Tell me, Steve, do you know why the Plan of Man requires this information?" "Why -- no, not exactly. I suppose -- " "Don't suppose. It's to explore the reefs of space. Do you know what the Plan wants in the reefs?" "No, I can't say that -- " "It wants Ron Donderevo, Steve." "Ron?" He frowned. "The man who got out of his iron collar, Steve," the girl said, nodding. "A man you might like to know again. That booby-trapped, tamperproof collar, that nobody can possibly get off until the Machine authorizes it -- the Machine wants to talk to Donderevo about it, very badly. Because he took his collar off, all by himself." Ryeland stared at her. She nodded. "And Donderevo is out in the reefs now," she Said, "and the Machine wants to do something about it. It might simply destroy the reefs. I understand you are working on some such project. But if it can't do that, it wants to send someone out there to find him. "Someone with a radar gun, Steve! To kill him! And that's why the Machine wants the secret of the jetless drive!" ii ii ii ii ii ii iT  li ii ii i j ii ij ij ii  Van Vogt Is Back! Complete Novelette of Interstellar Adventure A Great New Novelette by #'s "ScienceFiction Man of the Year" Manners and Customs of the Thrid Plus many other stories and features -- all In the next issue of H! Reserve your copy at your newsstand, or subscribe today! II II fl II II II fl fl fl II fl r! fi ri ii n IF IF  Short Story by bruce McAllister They were all that was left of humanity -- if they were still human! I wanted to call her Soft Breast, because she is soft when I hold her to me. But the Voice told me to call her Diane. When I call her Diane, I have a pleasant feeling, and she seems closer to me. She likes the name "Diane". The Voice knew what was best, of course, as it always does. I must mate with her every day, when the water is brightest. The Voice says so. It also says that I am in a "tank", and that the water is brightest when the "sun" is over the "tank". I do not understand the meaning of "sun", but the Voice says that "noon" is when the "Sun" is over the "tank". I must mate with Diane every "noon". I do know what the "tank" is. It is a very large thing filled with water, and having four "corners", one of which is the Cave where Diane and I sleep when the water is black like the ink of the squid and cold like dead fish. But we stay warm. There is the "floor" of the "tank", the "floor" being where all the rock and seaweed is, with all the crawling fish and crabs, where Diane and I walk and sleep. There are four "sides". "Sides" are smooth and blue walls, and have "view-ports" -- round, transparent areas -- on them. The Voice says that the things in the "view-ports" are Faces. I have a face, as does Diane. But the cracked, flat things with small lights circling about them are not pretty like Diane's face. The Voice says that the Faces have bodies, like myself, and Diane. No body could be like Diane's. I think I should be quite sick if I saw the bodies of the Faces. The Voice then says that the Faces are watching us, as we sometimes watch the porpoises. It took a very long time to grow used to having the Faces watch us, as Diane and I came together, but we learned to do it as simply as we swim and sleep. But Diane does not have babies. I am very sad when I see the porpoises and whales with their young. Diane and I sleep together in the Cave; Diane is very warm and soft. We sleep in happiness, but when we are awake, we are lonely. I question the Voice about a baby for Diane, but the Voice is always silent. I grow to hate the Faces in the "view-ports". They are always watching, watching. The Voice says that they are enemies, and bad. The Faces have not tried to hurt me: but I must think of them as enemies because the Voice says so. I ask bad, like the shark? The Voice says, no, worse than the sharks and eels. It says that the Faces are evil. The "tank" must be high, because the water is high. I have gone once to the surface, and, although I could get used to it, the light was too much for my eyes. It took me two hundred and seventy kicks to the surface; it took me three thousand steps from our Cave to the opposite "side". The "tank" is very large, otherwise the whales would not be happy. The fish are many, but the dangers are few. I have seen the sharks kill. But the shark does not come near me if I see it and am afraid. Sometimes I have caught it sneaking up behind me, but when I turn it leaves quickly. I have questioned the Voice about why the sharks leave. It does not know. It has no one to ask. T oday the "sun" must be very large, or powerful, or bright, because the water is brighter than most days. When I awoke Diane was not beside me. The rock of the Cave is jagged, so as I make my way from our bed of cool and slick seaweed, toward the entrance, I scrape my leg on the fifth kick. Not much blood comes from the cut. That is fortunate, because when there is blood the sharks come. Diane has grabbed the tail of a porpoise, and both are playing. Diane and I love the porpoises. Sometimes we can even hear their thoughts. They are different from the other fish; they are more like us. But they have babies and we do not. Diane sees me and, wanting to play, swims behind a rock and looks back, beckoning. I make a grab at her as I sneak around the rock. But she darts upward, toward the surface, where her body is a shadow of IF beauty against the lighter water above her. I follow her, but she ducks and I sail past her. Diane pulls up her legs, knees under her chin, and puts her arms around them. She then drops like a rock toward the "floor". I have caught a porpoise by his top fin. He knows my wish, so he speeds toward Diane, circles her and butts her soft thighs with his snout. She laughs, but continues to stay in a ball, her black hair waving. She is very beautiful. I try to pry her arms from around her legs gently, but she resists. I must use force. Diane does not mind when I do; because she knows I love her. I pull her arms away, and slip my arms under hers, kissing her on the lips for a long time. Struggling to free herself, laughing again, she pokes me sharply with her elbow and escapes my arms. I am surprised. She quickly puts her arms around my neck, pulls herself to my back and links her slim legs around my middle. She is pretending that I am a porpoise. I laugh. She pinches me to go ahead. I swim upward, but her thoughts tell me she wants to go to the Cave. I understand. I carry her through the water very slowly, feeling the warmth and nipples of her breasts pressed against my back as she rests her head on my shoulder and smiles. The Faces continue to stare. Many times I have searched for a word to show my hatred for them. I shall find it somehow, though. Sooner or later. C#TX#Tiat count of planets had   the Terrans infested?" The furry humanoid leaned over the desk and stared, unblinking, at the lesser humanoid in the only other chair in the room. His gaze was dropped as he scratched informally at the heavy fur at his wrist. He raised his gaze again. "Forty-three is the count, beush" replied the other. "And the count of planets destroyed?" "Forty-three planetoid missiles were sent and detonated simultaneously without resistance or losses on our part, beush" the assistant beush answered indirectly. The room was hot, so the beush lazily passed his hand over a faintly glowing panel. The room was cooled, and a large-eyed female with silky, ochrous fur -- very desirable to the majority of humanoids -- entered with two flared glasses of an odorles; transparent liquid -- very desirable to the majority of humanoids. The lesser humanoid was being treated exceptionately well. The room was momentarily silent as the two sipped at their drinks with black lips. The beush , as customary, spoke first. "Inform me of the pre-espionage intelligence accomplishments contra Energi. I have not been previously informed. Do not spare the details." "Of certainty, beush" began the assistant with all the grace of an informer. "The Light and Force Research of the Energi is executed in one center of one planet, the planet being Energa, as our intelligence service has conveniently listed it. The Energi have negative necessity for secrecy in their Light and Force Research, because, first, all centers are crusted and protected by Force Domes. Second, it is near impossibility that one could so self-disguise that he would negatively be detectable." He hesitated. "And these Energi," queried the beush, "are semi-telepathic or empathic?" "Affirmative," the assistant mumbled. "Then you have there a third reason," offered the beush. "Graces be given you, beush" The beush nodded in approval. "Continue, but negatively hesitate frequently or it will be necessary to discuss this subject post-present." H is assistant trembled slightly. "Unequivocally affirmative. Beush , your memory relates that five periods ante-present, when there existed the Truce inter Energi, Terrans and ourselves, there was a certain period during which gifts of the three nucleus-planets were exchanged in friendship. The Terrans were self-contented to donate to the Energi an immense 'aquarium' -- an 'aquarium' consisting of a partly transparent cell in which was placed a collection of Terran life-forms that breathed their oxygen from the dense atmosphere of Terran seas. But, as a warp-space message from the Terran Council indirectly proclaimed, the degenerate Terrans negatively possessed a ship of any Space type large or powerful enough to transport the 'aquarium to Energa. Our ships being the largest of the Truce, we were petitioned by the Terrans to transport it. These events developed before the Terrans grew pestiferous to our cause. We obliged, but even our vastest ship was slow, because the physical power necessary to bring the weight of the cell through warpspace quickly was too great for the solitary four generators. It was imperative that the trip be on a longer trajectory arranged through normspace. During the duration of the trip, feelings of suspicion arose inter Three Truce Races. As your memory also relates, the 'aquarium was still in space when we found it necessary to obliterate the total race of Terrans. The message of the annihilation arrived in retard to the Energi, so Time permitted us to devise a contra-Energi intelligence plan, a necessity since it was realized that the Energi would be disturbed by our action contra-Terrans and would, without doubt, take action contra-ourselves. "Unknown to you, beush , or to the masses and highers, an insignificant pleasure craft was extracted from Terran Space and negatively consumed with a planet when the bombs were detonated. The ship accommodated two Terrans. Proper Terrans by birth, negatively by reference. One was male, other female. The two had been in their culture socially and religiously united in a ceremony called 'matrimony. Emotions of sex, protection and an emotion we have negatively been able to analyze linked the two, and made them ideal for our purpose." IF The assistant looked at the beush, picked up his partially full glass and, before he could sip it, was dashed to the floor beside the beush himself. The former helped the higher to his unstable legs, and was commented to by the same, "Assistant, proceed to the protecroom." They entered the well-illuminated closet and immediately slipped into the unwieldy metallic suits. Once again they took their seats, the beush reflecting and saying, "As your memory relates, that explosion was a bomb-drop concussion from the Rebellers. We must now wear antiradiation protection. For that reason, and the danger of the Energi, you do see why we need the formulae of the Force Domes, immediately " There was menace in his voice. The assistant trembled violently. Using the rare smile of that humanoid race, the beush continued, "Do negatively self-preoccupy. Resume your information, if contented." "Contented," came the automatic reply, and the assistant began, "The two humans were perfect for the Plan, I repeat. Before the Energi received the message of the race destruction, it was imperative that we establish an agent on Energa, near the Force Domes. We assumed that the 'aquarium' would be placed on Energa, in the greatest center. That was correct, but negatively yet knowing for certainty, we perpetuated the Plan, with the 'aquarium' as the basis. "One of our most competent protoplasmic computers stabilized the final steps of the Plan. We were to subject the two Terrans to radiation and have as a result two Terrans who could breathe their normal oxygen form H# -- the atmosphere of the 'aquarium', I repeat. We were then to deprive them of memory, except of the inter-attracting emotions, to allow them to live in harmony. Thirdly, we were to place them in the 'aquarium' and have them forwarded under 'the reference of semi-intelligent aqua-beings from Terran seas. A simple, but quite effective plan, your opinion, beushl" "Quite," was the reply. "And concerning the method of info-interception?" The assistant continued without hesitation, embarrassed by his incompetency, "A hyper-complex spheroid with radio interceptors, a-matter viewers and recorders and the general intelligence instruments of micro-size was placed in the cranium of the male mutant. The spheroid has negative direct control over the organism. Size was too scarce for use on trivialities. Then an agent was placed behind the larger controls at our end of the instruments." "And you are the agent?" "Hyper-contentedly affirmative." I have done two things today. I have found the word for my hatred of the Faces. The Voice gave it to me. When I asked the Voice, it laughed and told me the word to use was "damn". So today I have thrice said, "Damn the Faces. Damn them." Diane and I have decided that we want a baby. Maybe the other fish wanted them, so they got them. We want a baby. "The two Terrans were so biologically mutated and are so nearly robotic, that it is physically impossible for reproduction on their part, beush." The beush ignored the assistant's words and said, "I have received copies of the thought-patterns and translations. There was something strange and very powerful about the meaning of the male's thought, 'want. I query." "Be assured without preoccupation that there exists negative danger of reproduction." The name I wanted to call Diane was not good, because her breasts are hard and large, as is her stomach. I think she is sick. I do not think Diane is sick. I think she is going to have a baby. "Entities, assistant! On your oathbody you proclaimed that there is negative danger of reproduction." "Rest assured, peace, beush. "But his thoughts!" "Rest assured, higher beush." There is much blood in the water today. Diane is having a baby; sharks have come. I have never seen so many sharks, and as big as they are T have never seen. T am afraid, but still some sneak among us near Diane. We love the porpoises, so they help us now. They are chasing the some. "Entities, Warp-spaced Entities! There has been reproduction." " Yorbeush " cried the assistant in defense. "It is physically impossible. But they are mutants. It is negatively impossible that they possess Mind Force to a degree." "To what degree? What degree could produce reproduction when it is physically impossible?" The beush was sarcastic. "How far can they go?" "There is negatively great amount they can do. Negative danger, because we have studied their instincts and emotions and found that they will not leave the 'aquarium,' their 'home'. Unless someone tells them to, but there is no one to do so." Today I damned the Faces nine times and finally wanted them to go away. The "view-ports" went black. It was like the sharks leaving when I wanted them to. I still do not understand. There has been much useless noise and senseless talk from the Voice these days. It is annoying because I must concentrate on loving Diane and caring for the baby. So T wanted the Voice to leave it. It left. "Entities Be Simply Damned! The spheroid ceased to exist, assistant. How far can they go, assistant?" The beush rose, screamed hysterically for three seconds and then fired the hand weapon point blank at the neck of his assistant. IF The sharks come today, because Diane is having another baby. Diane hurts, and there is more blood than last time. Her face is not pretty when she hurts, as it is pretty when she sleeps. So I want her to sleep. Her face is pretty now with the smile on her lips. "Fourteen thousand E n e r g i ceased to exist, spheroid ceased to exist, and another reproduction. Warpspace! How far will they go?" I t has been hundreds of days. Faces keep appearing, but I continue to want them to go away. Diane has had eighteen babies. The oldest are swimming around and playing with the porpoises. Diane and I spend most of the time teaching the children by showing them things, and by giving them our thoughts by touching them. T k)day I found that none of the children have Voices. I could want them to have Voices, but the children's thoughts tell me that it is not right to have a Voice. The eldest boy says that we should leave the tank, that a greater "tank" is around us, and that it is easier to move around in that greater tank. He also says that we must guard ourselves against Faces outside. That is strange, but the boy is a good boy. Many times he knows that things will happen before they do. He is a good boy. He is almost as tall as I am. The eldest girl is pretty like Diane, her body very white and soft but, since I wanted it so, her hair is golden, instead of dark. The boy likes her very much, and I have seen them together, touching. Tomorrow I will explain to him that if he wants something, he will get it. So he must want a baby. "Query? The Energi' will bombdrop the 'aquarium'? War declared against us? War declared? Entities be wholly damned! Negative! Negativvv!" The disintegrator was fired once more, this time into the orange eye of the beush himself, by himself, and for the good of himself. When, if I ever do want the Voice to come back, it will be very surprised to know that Diane has had twenty-four babies; that the three eldest boys have mated twice, once and twice, and have had four babies. The Voice will also be surprised to know that it took all twenty-nine of us to want all the Faces around the tank to die, as the eldest boy said to do. We could not tell, but the boy said that six seems impossible to me, but the boy is always right. Tomorrow we are leaving the the tank. We will want to leave it; it is getting crowded. The boy says that beyond the greater tank, which we will also leave, there is enough space for all the babies Diane could have if she lived forever. Forever, he said. It would be nice to live forever. I think I'll IF  Novelette Sly, brave and truculent, the Qornt held all humans in contempt -- except one! I A mbassador Nitworth glowered across his mirror-polished, nine-foot platinum desk at his assembled staff. "Gentlemen, are any of you familiar with a' race known as the Qornt?" There was a moment of profound silence. Nitworth leaned forward, looking solemn. "They were a warlike race known in this sector back in Concordiat times, perhaps two hundred years ago. They vanished as suddenly as they had appeared. There was no record of where they went." He paused for effect. "They have now reappeared -- occupying the inner planet of this system!" "But, sir," Second Secretary Magnan offered. "That's unhabited Terrestrial territory..." "Indeed, Mr. Magnan?" Nitworth smiled , icily. "It appears the Qornt do not share that opinion." He plucked a heavy parchment from a IP folder before him, harrumphed and read aloud: His Supreme Excellency The Qorn, Regent of Qomt, OverLord of the Galactic Destiny, Greets the Terrestrials and, with reference to the presence in mandated territory of Terrestrial squatters, has the honor to advise that he will require the use of his outer world on the thirtieth day. Then will the Qornt come with steel and fire. Receive, Terrestrials, renewed assurances of my awareness of your existence, and let Those who dare gird for the contest. "Frankly, I wouldn't call it conciliatory," Magnan said. Nitworth tapped the paper with a finger. "We have been served, gentlemen, with nothing less than an Ultimatum!" "Well, we'll soon straighten these fellows out -- " the Military Attache began, "There happens to be more to this piece of truculence than appears on the surface," the Ambassador cut in. He paused, waiting for interested frowns to settle into place. "Note, gentlemen, that these invaders have appeared on terrestrial controlled soil -- and without so much as a flicker from the instruments of the Navigational Monitor Service!" The Military Attache blinked. "That's absurd," he said flatly. Nitworth slapped the table. "We're up against something new, gentlemen! I've considered every hypothesis from cloaks of invisibility to time travel! The fact is -- the Qornt fleets are indetectible!" T he Military Attache pulled at his lower lip. "In that case, we can't try conclusions with these fellows until we have an indetectible drive of our own. I recommend a crash project. In the meantime -- " "I'll have my boys start in to crack this thing," the Chief of the Confidential Terrestrial Source Section spoke up. "F'll fit out a couple of volunteers with plastic beaks -- " "No cloak and dagger work, gentlemen! Long range policy will be worked out by Deep-Think teams back at the Department. Our role will be a holding action. Now I want suggestions for a comprehensive, well rounded and decisive course for meeting this threat. Any recommendation?" The Political Officer placed his fingertips together. "What about a stiff Note demanding an erttra week's time?" "No! No begging," the Economic Officer objected. I'd say a calm, dig:, nified, aggressive withdrawal -- as soon as possible." "We don't want to give them the idea we spook easily," the Military Attache said. "Let's delay the withdrawal -- say, until tomorrow." "Early tomorrow," Magnan said. "Or maybe later today." "Well, I see you're of a mind with me," Nitworth nodded. "Our plan of action is clear, but it remains to be implemented. We have IF II individuals to relocate." He eyed the Political Officer. "I want five proposals for resettlement on my desk by oh-eight-hundred hours tomorrow." Nitworth rapped out instructions. Harried-looking staff members arose and hurried from the room. Magnan eased toward the door. "Where are you going, Magnan?" Nitworth snapped. "Since you're so busy, I thought I'd just slip back down to Com Inq. It was a most interesting orientation lecture. Mr. Ambassador. Be sure to let us know how it works out." "Kindly return to your chair," Nitworth said coldly. "A number of chores remain to be assigned. I think you, Magnan, need a little field experience. I want you to get over to Roolit I and take a look at these Qornt personally." Magnan's mouth opened and closed soundlessly. "Not afraid of a few Qornt, are you, Magnan?" "Afraid? Good lord, no, ha ha. It's just that I'm afraid I may lose my head and do something rash if I go." "Nonsense! A diplomat is immune to heroic impulses. Take Retief along. No dawdling, now! I want you on the way in two hours. Notify the transport pool at once. Now get going!" Magnan nodded unhappily and went into the hall. "Oh, Retief," Nitworth said. Retief turned. "Try to restrain Mr. Magnan from any impulsive moves -- in any direction." R etief and Magnan topped a ridge and looked down across a slope of towering tree-shrubs and glossy violet-stemmed palms set among flamboyant blossoms of yellow and red, reaching down toa strip of white beach with the bluo sea beyond. "A delightful vista," Magnan said, mopping at his face. "A pity we couldn't locate the Qornt. We'll go back now and report -- " "I'm pretty sure the settlement is off to the right," Retief said. "Why don't you head back for the boat, while I ease over and see what I can observe." "Retief, we're engaged in a serious mission. This is not a time to think of sightseeing." "I'd like to take a good look at what we're giving away." "See here, Retief! One might almost receive the impression that you're questioning Corps policy!" "One might, at that. The Qornt have made their play, but I think it might be valuable to take a look at their cards before we fold. If I'm not back at the boat in an hour, lift without me." "You expect me to make my way back alone?" "It's directly down-slope -- " Retief broke off, listening. Magnan clutched at his arm. There was a sound of crackling foliage. Twenty feet ahead, a leafy branch swung aside. An eight-foot biped stepped into view, long, thin, green-clad legs with back-bending knees moving in quick, bird-like steps. A pair of immense blacklensed goggles covered staring eyes set among bushy green hair above a great bone-white beak. The crest bobbed as the creature cocked its head, listening. Magnan gulped audibly. The Qornt froze, head tilted, beak aimed directly at the spot where the Terrestrials stood in the deep shade of a giant trunk. "I'll go for help," Magnan squeaked. He whirled and took three leaps into the brush. A second great green-clad figure rose up to block his way. He spun, darted to the left. The first Qornt pounced, grappled Magnan to its narrow chest. Magnan yelled, threshing and kicking, broke free, turned -- and collided with the eight-foot alien, coming in fast from the right. All three went down in a tangle of limbs. Retief jumped forward, hauled Magnan free, thrust him aside and stopped, right fist cocked. The two Qornt lay groaning feebly. "Nice piece of work, Mr. Magnan," Retief said. "You nailed both of them." inphose undoubtedly are the A most bloodthirsty, aggressive, merciless countenances it has ever been my misfortune to encounter," Magnan said. "It hardly seems fair. Eight feet tall and faces like that!" The smaller of the two captive Qornt ran long, slenders fingers over a bony shin, from which he had turned back the tight-fitting green trousers. "It's not broken," he whistled nasally in passable Terrestrial, eyeing Magnan through the heavy goggles, now badly cracked. "Small thanks to you." Magnan smiled loftily. "I daresay you'll think twice before interfering with peaceable diplomats in future." "Diplomats? Surely you jest." "Never mind us," Retief said. "It's you fellows we'd like to talk about. How many of you are there?" "Only Zubb and myself." "I mean altogether. How many Qornt?" The alien whistled shrilly. "Here, no signalling!" Magnan snapped, looking around. "That was merely an expression of amusement." "You find the situation amusing? I assure you, sir, you are in perilous straits at the moment. I may fly into another rage, you know." "Please, restrain yourself. I was merely somewhat astonished -- " a small whistle escaped -- "at being taken for a Qornt." "Aren't you a Qornt?" "I? Great snail trails, no!" More stifled whistles of amusement escaped the beaked face. "Both Zubb and I are Verpp. Naturalists, as it happens." "You certainly look like Qornt." "Oh, not at all -- except perhaps to a Terrestrial. The Qornt are sturdily built rascals, all over ten feet in height. And, of course, they do nothing but quarrel. A drone caste, actually." "A caste? You mean they're biologically the same as you?" "Not at all! A Verpp wouldn't think of fertilizing a Qornt." IF "I mean to say, you are of the same basic stock -- descended from a common ancestor, perhaps." "We are all Pud's creatures." "What are the differences between you, then?" "Why, the Qornt are argumentive, boastful, lacking in appreciation for the finer things of life. One dreads to contemplate descending to their level." "Do you know anything about a Note passed to the Terrestrial Ambassador at Smorbrod?" Retief asked. T l he beak twitched. "Smorbrod? I know of no place called Smorbrod." "The outer planet of this system." "Oh, yes. We call it Guzzura. I had heard that some sort of creatures had established a settlement there, but I confess I pay little note to such matters." "We're wasting time, Retief," Magnan said. "We must truss these chaps up, hurry back to the boat and make our escape. You heard what they said." "Are there any Qornt down there at the harbor, where the boats are?" Retief asked. "At Tarroon, you mean? Oh, yes. Planning some adventure." "That would be the invasion of Smorbrod," Magnan said. "And unless we hurry, Retief, we're likely to be caught there with the last of the evacuees!" "How many Qornt would you say there are at Tarroon?" "Oh, a very large number. Perhaps fifteen or twenty." "Fifteen or twenty what?" Magnan looked perplexed. "Fifteen or twenty Qornt." "You mean that there are only fifteen or twenty individual Qornt in all?" Another whistle. "Not at all. I was referring to the local Qornt only. There are more at the other Centers, of course." "And the Qornt are responsible for the ultimatum -- unilaterally?" "I suppose so; it sounds like them. A truculent group, you know. And interplanetary relations are rather a hobby of theirs." Zubb moaned and stirred. He sat up slowly, rubbing his head. He spoke to his companion in a shrill alien clatter of consonants. "What did he say?" "Poor Zubb. He blames me for his bruises, since it was my idea to gather you as specimens." "You should have known better than to tackle that fierce-looking creature," Zubb said, pointing his beak at Magnan. "How does it happen that you speak Terrestrial?" Retief asked. "Oh, one picks up all sorts of dialects." "It's quite charming, really, "Magnan said. "Such a quaint, archaic accent." "Suppose we went down to Tarroon," Retief asked. "What kind of reception would we get?" "That depends. I wouldn't recommend interfering with the Gwil or the Rheuk; it's their nest-mending time, you know. The Boog will be busy mating -- such a tedious business -- and of course the Qornt are tied up with their ceremonial feasting. I'm afraid no one will take any notice of you." "Do you mean to say," Magnan demanded, "that these ferocious Qornt, who have issued an ultimatum to the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne -- who openly avow their occupied world -- would ignore Terrestrials in their midst?" "If at all possible." Retief got to his feet. "I think our course is clear, Mr. Magnan. It's up to us to go down and attract a little attention." Ill #CT'm not at all sure we're I going about this in the right way," Magnan puffed, trotting at Retief's side. "These fellows Zubb and Slun -- Oh, they seem affable enough, but how can we be sure we're not being led into a trap?" "We can't." Maqnan stopped short. "Let's go back." "All right," Retief said. "Of course there may be an ambush -- " Magnan moved off. "Let's keep going." The party emerged from the undergrowth at the edge of a great brush-grown mound. Slun took the lead, rounded the flank of the hillock, halted at a rectangular opening cut into the slope. "You can find your way easily enough from here," he said. "You'll excuse us, I hope -- " "Nonsense, Slun!" Zubb pushed forward. "I'll escort our guests to Qomt Hall." He twittered briefly to his fellow Verpp. Slun twittered back. "I don't like it, Retief," Magnan whispered. "Those fellows are plotting mischief." "Threaten them with violence, Mr Magnan. They're scared of you." "That's true. And the drubbing they received was well-deserved. I'm a patient man, but there are occasions -- " "Come along, please," Zubb called. "Another ten minutes' walk -- " "See here, we have no interest in investigating this barrow," Magnan announced. "We wish you to take us direct to Tarroon to interview your military leaders regarding the ultimatum!" "Yes, yes, of course. Qornt Hall lies here inside the village." "This is Tarroon?" "A modest civic center, sir, but there are those who love it." "No wonder we didn't observe their works from the air," Magnan muttered. "Camouflaged." He moved hesitantly through the opening. The party moved along a wide, deserted tunnel which sloped down steeply, then leveled off and branched. Zubb took the center branch, ducking slightly under the nine-foot ceiling lit at intervals with what appeared to be primitive incandescent panels. "Few signs of an advanced technology here," Magnan whispered. "These creatures must devote all their talents to warlike enterprise." Ahead, Zubb slowed. A distant susurration was audible, a sustained high-pitched screeching. "Softly, IF now. We approach Qornt Hall. They can be an irascible lot when disturbed at their feasting." "When will the feast be over?" Magnan called hoarsely. "In another few weeks, I should imagine, if, as you say, they've scheduled an invasion for next month." "Look here, Zubb." Magnan shook a finger at the tall alien. "How is it that these Qornt are allowed to embark on piratical ventures of this sort without reference to the wishes of the majority?" "Oh, the majority of the Qornt favor the move, I imagine." "These few hotheads are permitted to embroil the planet in war?" "Oh, they don't embroil the planet in war. They merely -- " "Retief, this is fantastic! I've heard of iron-fisted military cliques before, but this is madness!" "Come softly, now." Zubb beckoned, moving toward a bend in the yellow-lit corridor. Retief and Magnan moved forward. T he corridor debouched through a high double door into a vast oval chamber, high-domed, gloomy, ' paneled in dark wood and hung with tattered banners, scarred halberds, pikes, rusted longswords, crossed spears over patinaed hauberks, pitted radiation armor, corroded power rifles, the immense mummified heads of horned and fanged animals; Great guttering torches in wall brackets and in stands along the length of the long table shed a smoky light that reflected from the mirror polish of the red granite floor, gleamed on polished silver bowls and paper-thin glass, shone jewel-red and gold through dark bottles -- and cast long flickering shadows behind the fifteen trolls at the board. Lesser trolls -- beaked, bushhaired, great-eyed -- trotted  briskly, bird-kneed, bearing steaming platters, stood in groups of three strumming slender bottle-shaped lutes, or pranced an intricate-patterned dance, unnoticed in the shrill uproar as each of the magnificently draped, belted, feathered and jeweled Qornt carried on a shouted conversation with an equally noisy fellow. "A most interesting display of barbaric splendor," Magnan breathed. "Now we'd better be getting back." "Ah, a moment," Zubb said. "Observe the Qornt -- the tallest of the feasters -- he with the headdress of crimson, purple, silver and pink." "Twelve feet if he's an inch," Magnan estimated. "And now we really must hurry along -- " "That one is chief among these rowdies. I'm sure you'll want a word with him. He controls not only the Tarroonian vessels but those from the other Centers as well." "What kind of vessels? Warships?" "Certainly. What other kind would the Qornt bother with?" "I don't suppose," Magnan said casually, "that you'd know the type, tonnage, armament and manning of these vessels? And how many units comprise the fleet? And where they're based at present?" "They're fully automated twentythousand-ton all-purpose dreadnaughts. They mount a variety of weapons. The Qornt are fond of that sort of thing. Each of the Qornt has his own, of course. They're virtually identical, except for the personal touches each individual has given his ship." "Great heavens, Retief!" Magnan exclaimed in a whisper. "It sounds as though these brutes employ a battle armada as simpler souls might a set of toy sailboats!" Retief stepped past Magnan and Zubb to study the feasting hall. "I can see that their votes would carry all the necessary weight." "And now an interview with the Qorn himself," Zubb shrilled. "If you'll kindly step along, gentlemen..." "That won't be necessary," Magnan said hastily, "I've decided to refer the matter to committee." "After having come so far," Zubb said, "it would be a pity to miss having a cosy chat." There was a pause. "Ah... Retief," Magnan said. "Zubb has just presented a most compelling argument..." R etief turned. Zubb stood gripping an ornately decorated power pistol inone bony hand, a slim needier in the other. Both were pointed at Magnan's chest. "I suspected you had hidden qualities, Zubb," Retief commented. "See here, Zubb! We're diplomats!" Magnan started. "Careful, Mr. Magnan; you may goad him to a frenzy." "By no means," Zubb whistled. "I much prefer to observe the frenzy of the Qornt when presented with the news that two peaceful Verpp have been assaulted and kidnapped by bullying interlopers. If there's anything that annoys the Qornt, it's Qornt-like behavior in others. Now step along, please." "Rest assured, this will be reported!" "I doubt it." "You'll face the wrath of Enlightened Galactic Opinion!" "Oh? How big a navy does Enlightened Galactic Opinion have?" "Stop scaring him, Mr. Magnan. He may get nervous and shoot." Retief stepped into the banquet hall, headed for the resplendent figure at the head of the table. A trio of flute-players broke off in mid-bleat, staring. An ' inverted pyramid of tumblers blinked as Retief swung past, followed by Magnan and the tall Verpp. The shrill chatter at the table faded. Qorn turned as Retief came up, blinking three-inch eyes. Zubb stepped forward, gibbered, waving his arms excitedly. Qorn pushed back his chair -- a low, heavily padded stool -- and stared unwinking at Retief, moving his head to bring first one great round eye, then the other, to bear. There were small blue veins in the immense fleshy beak The bushy hair, springing out in a giant halo around the grayish, porous-skinned face, was wiry, stiff, moss-green, with tufts of chartreuse fuzz surrounding what appeared to be tympanic membranes. The tall headdress of scarlet silk and purple IP feathers was slightly askew, and a loop of pink pearls had slipped down above one eye. Zubb finished his speech and fell silent, breathing hard. Qom looked Retief over in silence, then belched. "Not bad," Retief said admiringly. "Maybe we could get up a match between you and Ambassador Stemwheeler. You've got the volume on him, but he's got timbre." "So," Qorn hooted in a resonant tenor. "You come from Guzzum, eh? Or Smorbrod, as I think you call it What is it you're after? More time? A compromise? Negotiations? Peace?" He slammed a bony hand against the table. "The answer is no!" Zubb twittered. Qorn cocked an eye, motioned to a servant. "Chain that one." He indicated Magnan. His eyes went to Retief. "This one's bigger; you'd best chain him, too." "Why, your Excellency -- " Magnan started, stepping forward. "Stay back!" Qom hooted. "Stand over there where I can keep an eye on you." "Your Excellency, I'm empowered -- " "Not ,here, you're not!" Qom trumpeted. "Want peace, do you? Well, I don't want peace! I've had a surfeit of peace these last two centuries! I want action! Loot! Adventure! Glory!" He turned to look down the table. "How about it, fellows? It's war to the knife, eh?" T here was a momentary silence from all sides. "I guess so," grunted a giant Qomt in iridescent blue with flamecolored plumes. Qorn's eyes bulged. He half rose. "We've been all over this," he bassooned. He clamped bony fingers on the hilt of a light rapier. "I thought I'd made my point!" "Oh, sure, Qom." "You bet." "I'm convinced." Qom rumbled and resumed his seat. "All for one and one for all, that's us." "And you're the one, eh, Qorn?" Retief commented. Magnan cleared his throat. "I sense that some of you gentlemen are not convinced of the wisdom of this move," he piped, looking along the table at the silks, jewels, beaks, feather-decked crests and staring eyes. "Silence!" Qom hooted. "No use your talking to my loyal lieutenants anyway," he added. "They do whatever I convince them they ought to do." "But I'm sure that on more mature consideration -- " "I can lick any Qornt in the house." Qorn said. "That's why I'm Qom." He belched again. A servant came up staggering under a weight of chain, dropped it with a crash at Magnan's feet. Zubb aimed the guns while the servant wrapped three loops around Magnan's wrists, snapped a lock in place. "You next!" The guns pointed at Retief s chest. He held out his arms. Four loops of silvery-gray chain in half-inch links dropped around them. The servant cinched them up tight, squeezed a lock through the ends and closed it. "Now," Qorn said, lolling back in his chair, glass in hand. "There's a bit of sport to be had here, lads. What shall we do with them?" "Let them go," the blue and flame Qornt said glumly. "You can do better than that," Qorn hooted. "Now here's a suggestion: we carve them up a little -- lop off the external labiae and pinnae, say -- and ship them back." "Good lord! Retief, he's talking about cutting off our ears and sending us home mutilated! What a barbaric proposal!" "It wouldn't be the first time a Terrestrial diplomat got a trimming," Retief commented. "It should have the effect of stimulating the Terries to put up a reasonable scrap," Qorn said judiciously. "I have a feeling that they're thinking of giving up without a struggle." "Oh, I doubt that," the blue-andflame Qornt said. "Why should they?" Qorn rolled an eye at Retief and another at Magnan. "Take these two," he hooted. "I'll wager they came here to negotiate a surrender!" "Well," Magnan started. "Hold it, Mr. Magnan," Retief said, "I'lltell him." "What's your proposal?" Qorn whistled, taking a gulp from his goblet. "A fifty-fifty split? Monetary reparations? Alternate territory? I can assure you, it's useless. We Qornt like to fight." "I'm afraid you've gotten the wrong impression, your Excellency," Retief said blandly. "We didn't come to negotiate. We came to deliver an Ultimatum." "What?" Qorn trumpeted. Behind Retief, Magnan spluttered. "We plan to use this planet for target practice," Retief said. "A new type hell bomb we've worked out. Have all your people off of it in seventy-two hours, or suffer the consequences." IV # #C"#"ou have the gall," Qorn I stormed, "to stand here in the center of Qornt Hall -- uninvited, at that -- and in chains -- " "Oh, these," Retief said. He tensed his arms. The soft aluminum links stretched and broke. He shook the light metal free. "We diplomats like to go along with colorful local customs, but I wouldn't want to mislead you. Now, as to the evacuation of Roolit I -- " Zubb screeched, waved the guns. The Qornt were jabbering. "I told you they were brutes," Zubb shrilled. Qorn slammed his fist down on the table. "I don't care what they are!" he honked. "Evacuate, hell! I can field eighty-five combat-ready ships!" "And we can englobe every one of them with a thousand Peace Enforcers with a hundred megatons second firepower each." "Retief." Magnan tugged at his sleeve. "Don't forget their superdrive." "That's all right. They don't have one." IF "But -- " "We'll take you on!" Qorn Frenchhorned. "We're the Qorn! We glory in battle! We live in fame or go down in -- " "Hogwash," the flame-and-blue Qorn cut in. "If it wasn't for you, Qorn, we could sit around and feast and brag and enjoy life without having to prove anything." "Qorn, you seem to be the firebrand here," Retief said. "I think the rest of the boys would listen to reason -- " "Over my dead body!" "My idea exactly," Retief said. "You claim you can lick any man in the house. Unwind yourself from your ribbons and step out here on the floor, and we'll see how good you are at backing up your conversation." M agnan hovered at Retiefs side. "Twelve feet tall," he moaned. "And did you notice the size of those hands?" Retief watched as Qorn's aides helped him out of his formal trappings. "I wouldn't worry too much, Mr. Magnan. This is a light-Gee world. I doubt if old Qorn would weigh up at more than two-fifty standard pounds here." "But that phenomenal reach -- " "I'll peck away at him at knee level. When he bends over to swat me, I'll get a crack at him." Across the cleared floor, Qorn shook off his helpers with a snort. "Enough! Let me at the upstart!" Retief moved out to meet him, watching the upraised backwardjointed arms. Qorn stalked forward, long lean legs bent, long horny feet clacking against the polished floor. The other aliens -- both servitors and bejeweled Qornt -- formed a wide circle, all eyes unwaveringly on the combatants. Qorn struck suddenly, a long arm flashing down in a vicious cut at Retief, who leaned aside, caught one lean shank below the knee. Qorn bent to haul Retief from his leg -- and staggered back as a haymaker took him just below the beak. A screech went up from the crowd as Retief leaped clear. Qorn hissed and charged. Retief whirled aside, then struck the alien's off-leg in a flying tackle. Qorn leanfloor. "Retief whirled, dived for the left arm, whipped it behind the narrow back, seized Qorn's neck in a stranglehold and threw his weight backward. Qorn fell on his back, his legs squatted out at an awkward angle. He squawked and beat his free arm on the floor, reaching in vain for Retief. Zubb stepped forward, pistols ready. Magnan stepped before him. "Need I remind you, sir," he said icily, "that this is an official diplomatic function? I can brook no interference from disinterested parties." Zubb hesitated. Magnan held out a hand. "I must ask you to hand me your weapons, Zubb." "Look here," Zubb began. "I may lose my temper," Magnan hinted. Zubb lowered the guns, passed them to Magnan. He thrust them into his belt with a sour smile, turned back to watch the encounter. Retief had thrown a turn of violet silk around Qorn's left wrist, bound k to the alien's neck. Another wisp of stuff floated from Qorn's shoulder. Retief, still holding Qorn in an awkward sprawl, wrapped it around one outflung leg, trussed ankle and thigh together. Qorn flopped, hooting. At each movement, the constricting loop around his neck, jerked his head back, the green crest tossing wildly. "If I were you. I'd relax," Retief said, rising and releasing his grip. Qorn got a leg under him; Retief kicked it. Qorn's chin hit the floor with a hollow clack. He wilted, an ungainly tangle of over-long limbs and gay silks. Retief turned to the watching crowd. "Next?" he called. The blue and flame Qornt stepped forward. "Maybe this would be a good time to elect a new leader," he said. "Now, my qualifications -- " "Sit down," Retief said loudly. He stepped to the head of the table, seated himself in Qorn's vacated chair. "A couple of you finish trussing Qorn up for me." "But we must select a leader!" "That won't be necessary, boys. I'm your new leader." # As I see it," Retief said, dribbling cigar ashes into an empty wine glass, "you Qornt like to be warriors, but you don't particularly like to fight." "We don't mind a little fighting -- within reason. And, of course, as Qornt, we're expected to die in battle. But what I say is, why rush tilings?" "I have a suggestion," Magnan said. "Why not turn the reins of government over to the Verpp? They seem a level-headed group." "What good would that do? QornJ are Qornt. It seems there's always one among us who's a slave to instinct -- and, naturally, we have to follow him." "Why?" "Because that's the way it's done." "Why not do it another way?" Magnan offered. "Now, I'd like to suggest community singing -- " "If we gave up fighting, we might live too long. Then what would happen?" "Live too long?" Magnan looked puzzled. "When estivating time comes there'd be no burrows for us. Anyway, with the new Qornt stepping on our heels -- " "I've lost the thread," Magnan said. "Who are the new Qornt?" "After estivating, the Verpp moult, and then they're Qornt, of course. The Gwil become Boog, the Boog become Rheuk, the Rheuk metamorphosize into Verpp -- " "You mean Slun and Zubb -- the mild-natured naturalists -- will become warmongers like Qorn?" "Very likely. 'The milder the Verpp, the wilder the Qorn,' as the old saying goes." "What do Qornt turn into?" Retief asked. "Hmmmm. That's a good question. So far, none have survived Qornthood." "Have you thought of forsaking your warlike ways?" Magnan asked. "What about taking up sheepherdIF ing and regular church attendance?" "Don't mistake me. We Qornt like a military life. It's great sport to sit around roaring fires and drink and tell lies and then go dashing off to enjoy a brisk affray and some leisurely looting afterward. But we prefer a nice numerical advantage. Not this business of tackling you Terrestrials over on Guzzum -- that was a mad notion. We had no idea what your strength was." "But now that's all off, of course," Magnan chirped. "Now that we've had diplomatic relations and all -- " "Oh, by no means. The fleet lifts in thirty days. After all, we're Qornt; we have to satisfy our drive to action." "But Mr. Retief is your leader now. He won't let you!" "Only a dead Qornt stays home when Attack day comes. And even if he orders us all to cut our own throats, there are still the other Centers -- all with their own leaders. No, gentlemen, the Invasion is definitely on." "Why don't you go invade somebody else?" Magnan suggested. "I could name some very attractive prospects -- outside my sector, of course."  "Hold everything," Retief said. "I think we've got the basis of a deal here... V A t the head of a double column of gaudily caparisoned Qornt, Retief and Magnan strolled across the ramp toward the bright tower gates opened, and a black Corps limousine emerged, flying an Ambassadorial flag under a plain square of white. "Curious," Magnan commented. "I wonder what the significance of the white ensign might be?" Retief raised a hand. The column halted with a clash of accoutrements and a rasp of Qornt boots. Retief looked back along the line. The high white sun flashed on bright silks, polished buckles, deep-dyed plumes, butts of pistols, the soft gleam of leather. "A brave show indeed," Magnan commented approvingly. "I confess the idea has merit." The limousine pulled up with a squeal of brakes, stood on two fattired wheels, gyros humming softly. The hatch popped up. A portly diplomat stepped out. "Why Ambassador Nitworth," Magnan glowed. "This is very kind of you." "Keep cool, Magnan," Nitworth said in a strained voice. "We'll attempt to get you out of this." He stepped past Magnan's outstretched hand and looked hesitantly at the ramrod-straight line of Qornt, eighty-five strong -- and beyond, at the eighty-five tall Qornt dreadnaughts. "Good afternoon, sir... ah, Your Excellency," Nitworth said, blinking up at the leading Qornt. "You are Commander of the Strike Force, I assume?" "Nope," the Qornt said shortly. "I... ah... wish to request seventy-two hours in which to evacuate Headquarters," Nitworth plowed on. "Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "This -- " "Don't panic, Retief. I'll attempt to secure your release," Nitworth hissed over his shoulder. "Now -- " "You will address our leader with more respect!" the tall Qornt hooted, eyeing Nitworth ominously from eleven feet up. "Oh, yes indeed, sir... your Excellency... Commander. Now, about the invasion -- " "Mr. Secretary," Magnan tugged at Nitworth's sleeve. "In heaven's name, permit me to negotiate in peace!" Nitworth snapped. He rearranged his features. "Now your Excellency, we've arranged to evacuate Smorbrod, of course, just as you requested -- " "Requested?" the Qornt honked. "Ah... demanded, that is. Quite rightly of course. Ordered. Instructed. And, of course, we'll be only too pleased to follow any other instructions you might have." "You don't quite get the big picture, Mr. Secretary," Retief said. "This isn't -- " "Silence, confound you!" Nitworth barked. The leading Qornt looked at Retief. He nodded. Two bony hands shot out, seized Nitworth and stuffed a length of bright pink silk into his mouth, then spun him around and held him facing Retief. "If you don't mind my taking this opportunity to brief you, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said blandly, "I think I should mention that this isn't an invasion fleet. These are the new recruits for the Peace Enforcement Corps." Magnan stepped forward, glanced at the gag in Ambassador Nitworth's mouth, hesitated, then cleared his throat. "We felt," he said, "that the establishment of a Foreign Brigade within the P. E. Corps structure would provide the element of novelty the Department has requested in our recruiting, and at the same time would remove the stigma of Terrestrial chauvinism from future punitive operations." Nitworth starred, eyes bulging. He grunted, reaching for the gag, caught the Qornt's eye on him, dropped his hands to his sides. "I suggest we get the troops in out of the hot sun," Retief said. Magnan edged close. "What about the gag?" he whispered. "Let's leave it where it is for a while," Retief murmured. "It may save us a few concessions." A n hour later, Nitworth, breathing freely again, glowered across his desk at Retief and Magnan. "This entire affair," he rumbled, "has made me appear to be a fool!" "But we who are privileged to serve on your staff already know just how clever you are," Magnan burbled. Nitworth purpled. "You're skirting insolence, Magnan," he roared. "Why was I not informed of the arrangements? What was I to assume at the sight of eighty-five war vessels over my headquarters, unannounced?" "We tried to get through, but our wavelengths -- " "Bah! Sterner souls than I would have quailed at the spectacle!" IF "Oh, you were perfectly justified in panicking -- " "I did not panic!" Nitworth bellowed. "I merely adjusted to the apparent circumstances. Now, I'm of two minds as to the advisability of this foreign legion idea of yours. Still, it may have merit. I believe the wisest course would be to dispatch them on a long training cruise in an uninhabited sector of space -- " The office windows rattled. "What the devil!" Nitworth turned, stared out at the ramp where a Qornt ship rose slowly on a column of pale blue light. The vibration increased as a second ship lifted, then a third. Nitworth whirled on Magnan. "What's this! Who ordered these recruits to embark without my permission?" "I took the liberty of giving them an errand to run, Mr. Secretary," Retief said. "There was that little matter of the Groaci infiltrating the Sirenian System. I sent the boys off to handle it." "Call them back at once!" "I'm afraid that won't be possible. They're under orders to maintain total communications silence until completion of the mission." Nitworth drummed his fingers on the desk top. Slowly, a thoughtful expression dawned. He nodded. "This may work out," he said. "I should call them back, but since the fleet is out of contact, I'm unable to do so, correct? Thus I can hardly be held responsible for any overenthusiasm in chastising the Groaci." He closed one eye in a broad wink at Magnan. "Very well, gentlemen, I'll overlook the irregularity this time. Magnan, see to It the Smorbrodian public are notified they can remain where they are. And by the way, did you by any chance discover the technique of the indetectable drive the Qornt use?" "No, sir. That is, yes, sir." "Well? Well?" "There isn't any. The Qornt were there all the while. Underground." "Underground? Doing what?" "Hibernating -- for two hundred years at a stretch." O utside in the corridor, Magnan came up to Retief, who stood talking to a tall man in a pilot's coverall. "I'll be tied up, sending through full details on my -- our -- your recruiting theme, Retief," Magnan said. "Suppose you run into the city to assist the new Verpp Consul in settling in." "I'll do that, Mr. Magnan. Anything else?" Magnan raised his eyebrows. "You're remarkably compliant today, Retief. I'll arrange transportation." "Don't bother, Mr. Magnan. Cy here will run me over. He was the pilot who ferried us over to Roolit I, you recall." "I'll be with you as soon as I pack a few phone numbers, Retief," the pilot said. He moved off. Magnan followed him with a disapproving eye. "An uncouth sort, I fancied. I trust you're not consorting with his kind socially." "I wouldn't say that, exactly," Retief said. "We just want to go over IF  Short Story They were the doomed captives of alien creatures... on the planet where Mankind was born! T he reek and noise at the back of the circus were familiar to Javlin Bartramm. He felt the hard network of nerves in his solar plexus tighten. There were crowds of the reduls here, jostling and staring to see the day's entry arrive. You didn't have to pay to stand and rubberneck in the street; this lot probably couldn't afford seats for the arena. Javlin looked away from them in scorn. All the same, he felt some gratification when they sent up a cheeping cheer at the sight of him. They loved a human victim. His keeper undid the cart door and led him out, still chained. They went through the entrance, from blinding sunshine to dark, into the damp unsavory warren below the main stadium. Several reduls were moving about here, officials mainly. One or two called good luck to him; one chirped, "The crowd's in a good mood today, vertebrate." Javlin showed no response. His trainer, Ik So Baar, came up, a flamboyant redul towering above Javlin. He wore an array of spare gloves strapped across his orange belly. The white tiara that fitted round his antennae appeared only on sports days. "Greetings, Javlin. You look in the rudest of health. I'm glad you are not fighting me." "Greetings, Ik So." He slipped the lip-whistle into his mouth so that he could answer in a fair approximation of the redul language. "Is my opponent ready to be slain? Remember I go free if I win this bout -- IF ft will be my twelfth victory in succession." "There's been a change in the program, Javlin. Your Sirian opponent escaped in the night and had to be killed. You are entered in a double double." Javlin wrenched at his chains so hard that the keeper was swung off balance. "Ik So! You betray me! How much cajsh have I won for you? I will not fight a double double." There was no change of expression on the insect mask. "Then you will die, my pet vertebrate. The new arrangement is not my idea. You know by now that I get more cajsh for having you in a solo. Double double it has to be. These are my orders. Keeper, Cell # with him!" Fighting against his keeper's pull, Javlin cried, "I've got some rights, Ik So. I demand to see the arena promoter." "Pipe down, you stupid vertebrate! You have to do what you're ordered. I told you it wasn't my fault." "Well, for God's sake, who am I fighting with?" "You will be shackled to a fellow from the farms. He's had one or two preliminary bouts; they say he's good."  "From the farms..." Javlin broke into the filthiest redulian oaths he knew. Ik So came back towards him and slipped one of the metal gloves on to his forepincers; it gave him a cruel tearing weapon with a multitude of barbs. He held it up to Javlin's face. "Don't use that language to me, my mammalian friend. Humans from the farms or from space, what's the difference? This young fellow will fight well enough if you muck in with him. And you'd better muck in. You're billed to battle Before Javlin could answer, the tall figure turned and strode down the corridor, moving twice as fast as a man could walk. Javlin let himself be led to Cell #. The warder, a worker-redul with a gray belly, unlocked his chains and pushed him in, barring the door behind him. The cell smelt of alien species and apprehensions. Javlin went and sat down on the bench. He needed to think. H e knew himself for a simple man -- and knew that that knowledge meant the simplicity was relative. But his five years of captivity here under the reduls had not been all wasted. Ik So had trained him well in the arts of survival; and when you came down to brass tacks, there was no more proper pleasure in the universe than surviving. It was uncomplicated. It carried no responsibilities to anyone but yourself. That was what he hated about the double double events, which till now he had always been lucky enough to avoid. They carried a responsibility to your fellow fighter. From the beginning he had been well equipped to survive the gladiatorial routine. When his scoutship, the Plunderhorse, had been captured by redul forces Five years ago, IF Javlin Bartramm was duelling master and judo expert, as well as Top Armament Sergeant. The army ships had a long tradition, going back some six centuries, of sport aboard; it provided the ideal mixture of time-passer and needed exercise. Of all the members of the Plunderhorse's crew who had been taken captive, Javlin was -- as far as he knew -- the only survivor after five years of the insect race's rough games. Luck had played its part in his survival. He had liked Ik So Baar. Liking was a strange thing to feel for a nine-foot armored grasshopper with forearms like a lobster and a walk like a tyrannosaurus's run, but a sympathy existed between them -- and would continue to exist until he was killed in the ring, Javlin thought. With his bottom on the cold bench, he knew that Ik So would not betray him into a double double. The redul had had to obey the promoter's orders. Ik So needed his twelfth victory, so that he could free Javlin to help him train the other species down at the gladiatorial farm. Both of them knew that would be an effective partnership. So. Now y  as the time for luck to be with Javlin again. He sank on to his knees and looked down at the stone, brought his forehead down on to it, gazed down into the earth, into the cold ground, the warm rocks, the molten core, trying to visualize each, to draw from them attributes that would help him: cold for his brain, warm for his temper, molten for his energies. Strengthened by prayer, he stood up. The redul workers had yet to bring him his armor and the partner he was to fight with. He had long since learnt the ability to wait without resenting waiting. With professional care, he exercised himself slowly, checking the proper function of each muscle. As he did so, he heard the crowds cheer in the arena. He turned to peer out of the cell's further door, an affair of tightly set bars that allowed a narrow view of the combat area and the stands beyond. There was a centaur out there in the sunlight, fighting an Aldebaran bat-leopard. The centaur wore no armor but an iron cuirass; he had no weapons but his hooves and his hands. The bat-leopard, though its wings were clipped to prevent it flying out of the stadium, had dangerous claws and a great turn of speed. Only because its tongue had been cut out, ruining its echo-location system, was the contest anything like fair. The concept of fairness was lost upon the reduls, though; they preferred blood to justice. Javlin saw the kill. The centaur, a gallant creature with a humanlike head and an immense gold mane that began from his eyebrows, was plainly tiring. He eluded the batleopard as it swooped down on him, wheeling quickly round on his hind legs and trampling on its wing. But the bat-leopard turned and raked the other's legs with a slash of claws. The centaur toppled hamstrung to the ground. As he fell, he lashed out savagely with his forelegs, but the bat-leopard nipped in and tore his throat from side to side above the cuirass. It then dragged itself away under its mottled wings, like a lame prima donna dressed in a leather cape. The centaur struggled and lay still, as if the weight of whistling cheers that rose from the audience bore him down. Through the narrow bars, Javlin saw the throat bleed and the lungs heave as the defeated one sprawled in the dust. "What do you dream of, dying there in the sun?" Javlin asked. He turned away from the sight and the question. He sat quietly down on the bench and folded his arms. When the din outside told him that the next bout had begun, the passage door opened and a young human was pushed in. Javlin did not need telling that this was to be his partner in the double double against It was a girl. iGTou're Javlin?" she said. "I I know of you. My name's Awn." He kept himself under control, his brows drawn together as he stared at her. "You know what you're here for?" "This will be my first public fight," she said. Her hair was clipped short as a man's. Her skin was tanned and harsh, her left arm bore a gruesome scar. She held herself lithely on her feet. Though her body looked lean and hard, even the thick one-piece gown she wore to thigh length did not conceal the feminine curves of her body. She was not pretty, but Javlin had to admire the set of her mouth and her cool gray gaze. "I've had some stinking news this morning, but Ik So Baar never broke it to me that I was to be saddled with a woman," he said. "Ik probably didn't know -- that I'm a woman, I mean. The reduls are either neuter or hermaphrodite, unless they happen to be a rare queen. Didn't you know 'that? They can't tell the difference between human male and female." He spat. "You can't tell me anything about reduls." She spat. "If you knew, why blame me? You don't think I like being here? You don't think I asked to join the great Javlin?" Without answering he bent and began to massage the muscles of his calf. Since he occupied the middle of the bench, the girl remained standing. She watched him steadily. When he looked up again, she asked, "What or who are we fighting?" No surprise was left in him. "They didn't tell you?" "I've only just been pushed into this double double, as I imagine you have. I asked you, what are we fighting?" He injected unconcern into his voice to make the shock of what he said the greater. He massaged the muscles of the other calf. An aphrohale would have come in very welcome now. These crazy insects had no equivalent of the terrestrial prisonerate-a-hearty-breakfast routine. When he glanced up under his eyebrows, IF the girl still stood motionless, but her face had gone pale. little girl?" She didn't answer, so he went on, "The reduls resemble some terrestrial insects. They go through several stages of development, you know; reduls are just the final adult stage. Their larval stage is rather like the larval stage of the dragon fly. It's a greedy, omnivorous beast. It's aquatic and it's big. It's armored. we are going to be tied together to beeth. Are you feeling like dying this morning, Awn?" Instead of answering, she turned her head away and brought a hand up to her mouth. "Oh, no! No crying in here, for Earth's sake!" he said. He got up, yelled through the passage door, "Ik So, Ik So, you traitor, get this bloody woman out of here!"... recalled himself, jammed the lip-whistle into his mouth and was about to call again when Awn caught him a backhanded blow across the face. She faced him like a tiger. "You creature, you cowardly apology of a man! Do you think I weep for fear? I don't weep. I've lived nineteen years on this damned planet in their damned farms. Would I still be here if I wept? No -- but I mourn that you are already defeated, you, the great Javlin!" He frowned into her blazing face. "You don't seriously think you make me a good enough match for us to go out there and kill a couple "Damn your conceit, I'm prepared to try." "Fagh!" He thrust the lip-whistle into his mouth, and turned back to the door. She laughed at him bitterly, jeeringly. "You're a lackey to these insects, aren't you, Javlin? If you could see what a fool you look with that phoney beak of yours stuck on your mouth." H e let the instrument drop to the end of its chain. Grasping the bars, he leaned forward against them and looked at her over his shoulder. "I was trying to get this contest called off." "Don't tell me you haven't already tried. I have." To that he had no answer. He went back and sat on the bench. She returned to her corner. They both folded their arms and stared at each other. "Why don't you look out into the arena instead of glaring at me? You might pick up a few tips." When she did not answer, he said, "I'll tell you what you'll see. You can see the rows of spectators and a box where some sort of bigwig sits. I don't know who the bigwig is. It's never a queen -- as far as I can make out, the queens spend their lives underground, turning out eggs at the rate of fifty a second. Not the sort of life Earth royalty would have enjoyed in the old days. Under the bigwig's box there is a red banner with their insect hieroglyphs on. I asked Ik So once what the hieroglyphs said. He told me they meant -- well, in a rough translation -- The Greatest Show on Earth . It's funny, isn't it?" "You must admit we do make a show." "No, you miss the point. You see, that used to be the legend of circuses in the old days. But they've adopted it for their own use since they invaded Earth. They're boasting of their conquest." "And that's funny?" "In a sort of way. Don't you feel rather ashamed that this planet which saw the birth of the human race should be overrun by insects?" "No. The reduls were here before me. I was just born here. Weren't you?" "No, I wasn't. I was born on Washington IV. It's a lovely planet. There are hundreds of planets out there as fine and varied as Earth once was -- but it kind of rankles to think that this insect brood rules Earth." "If you feel so upset about it, why don't you do something?" He knotted his fists together. You should start explaining history and economics just before you ran out to be chopped to bits by a big rampant thing with circular saws for hands? "It would cost mankind too much to reconquer 'this planet. Too difficult. Too many deaths just for sentiment. And think of all those queens squirting eggs at a rate of knots; humans don't breed that fast. Humanity has learnt to face facts." She laughed without humor. "That's good. Why don't you learn to face the fact of me?" Javlin had nothing to say to that; she would not understand that directly he saw her he knew his hope of keeping his life had died. She was just a liability. Soon he would be dying, panting his juices out into the dust like that game young centaur... only it wouldn't be dust. "We fight in two foot of water," beeth like it. It slows our speed a bit. We might drown instead of having our heads bitten off." "I can hear someone coming down the corridor. It may be our armor," she said coolly. "Did you hear what I said?" "You can't wait to die, Javlin, can you?" 'TT'he bars fell away on the outA side of the door, and it opened. The keeper stood there. Ik So Baar had not appeared as he usually did. The creature flung in their armor and weapons and retreated, barring the door again behind him. It never ceased to astonish Javlin that those great dumb brutes of workers had intelligence. He stooped to pick up his uniform. The girl's looked so light and small. He lifted it, looking from it to her. "Thank you," she said. "It looks so small and new." "I shouldn't want anything heavier." "You've fought in it?" "Twice." There was no need to ask whether she had won. "We'd better get the stuff strapped on, then. We shall know when they are getting ready for us; you'll hear the arena being filled with water. They're probably saving us for the main events just before noon." "I didn't know about the two feet of water." "Scare you?" "No. I'm a good swimmer. Swam for fish in the river on the slave farm." "You caught fish with your bare hands?" "No, you dive down and stab them with a sharp rock. It takes practice." It was a remembered pleasure. She'd actually swum in one of Earth's rivers. He caught himself smiling back into her face. "Ik So's place is in the desert," he said, making his voice cold. "Anyhow, you won't be able to swim in the arena. Two foot of muddy stinking water helps nobody. And you'll be chained on to me with a fourfoot length of chain." "Let's get our armor on, then you'd better tell me all you know. Perhaps we can work out a plan of campaign." As he picked up the combined breastplate and shoulder guard, Awn untied her belt and lifted her dress over her head. Underneath she wore only a ragged pair of white briefs. She commenced to take those off. Javlin stared at her with surprise -- and pleasure. It had been years since he had been within hailing distance of a woman. This one -- yes, this one was a beauty. "What are you doing that for?" he asked. He hardly recognized his own voice. "The less we have on the better in that water. Aren't you going to take your clothes off?" He shook his head. Embarrassed, he fumbled on the rest of his kit. At least she wouldn't look so startling with her breastplate and skirt armor on. He checked his long andshort swords, clipping the one into the left belt clip, the other into the right. They were good swords, made by redul armorers to terrestrial specifications. When he turned back to Awn, she was fully accoutred. Nodding in approval, he offered her a seat on the bench beside him. They clattered against each other and smiled. Another bout had ended in the arena. The cheers and chirrups drifted through the bars to them. "I'm sorry you're involved in this," he said with care. "I was lucky to be involved in it with you." Her voice was not entirely steady, but she controlled it in a minute. "Can't I hear water?" He had already heard it. An unnatural silence radiated from the great inhuman crowd in the circus as they watched the stuff pour in. It would have great emotional significance for them, no doubt, since they had all lived in water for some years in their previous life stage. "They have wide-bore hoses," he said. His own voice had an irritating tremor. "The arena fills quite rapidly." "Let's formulate some sort of plan of attack then. These things, these nesses." "And some strengths! That's what you have to watch for." "I don't see that. You attack their weak points." "We shall be too busy looking out for their strong ones. They have long, segmented gray bodies -- about twenty segments, I think. Each segment is of chitin or something tough. Each segment bears two legs equipped with razor combs. At tail end and top end they have legs that work like sort of buzz saws, cut through anything they touch. And there are their jaws, of course." T he keeper was back. Its antennae flopped through the grating and then it unbolted the door and came in. It bore a length of chain as long as the cell was wide. Javlin and Awn did not resist as it locked them together, fitting the bracelets on to Javlin's right arm and Awn's left. "So." She stared at the chain. "The weak points: They could cut through our swords with their buzz saws?" "Correct." "Then they could cut through this chain. Get it severed near one of our wrists, and the other has a better long distance weapon than a sword. A blow over the head with the end of the chain won't improve their speed. How fast are they?" "The buzz' saws take up most of their sjeed. They're nothing like as fast as the reduls. No, you could say they were pretty sluggish in movement. And the fact that the two of them will also be chained together should help us." "Where are they chained?" "By the middle legs." "That gives them a smaller arc of destruction than if they were chained by back or front legs. We are going to slay these beasts yet, Javlin! What a murderous genus it must be to put its offspring in the arena for the public sport." He laughed. "Would you feel sentimental about babies?" "I'll tell you that when I've had the first of them. I mean, if I have the first of them." He put his hand over hers. "No if. We'll kill the bloody larvae okay." "Get the chain severed, the one of us with the longest bit of chain goes in for the nearest head, the other fends off the other brute. Right?" "Right." There was a worker redul at the outer door now, the door that led to the arena. He flung it open and stood there with a flaming torch, ready to drive them out if they did not emerge. "We've -- come to it then," she said. Suddenly she clung to him. "Let's take it at a run, love," he said. Together, balancing the chain be tween them, they ran towards the ing out from the far side, wallowing and splashing. The crowd stretched up toward the blue sky of earth, whistling their heads off. They didn't know what a man and a woman could do in combination. Now they were going to learn. IF IF  Novelette The ancient rule was sink or swim -- swim in the miasma of a planet without spaceflight, or sink to utter destruction! i T ie horses and packs were loaded before we went aboard the scoutship. The scout bay is no more than a great oversized airlock with a dozen small ships squatting over their tubes, but it was the last of the Ship that I might ever see, so I took a long final look from the top of the ramp. There were sixteen of us girls and thirteen boys. We took our places in the seats in the center of the scout. Riggy Allen made a joke that nobody bothered to laugh at, and then we were all silent. I was feeling lost and just beginning to enjoy it when Jimmy Dentremont came over to me. He's red-headed and has a face that makes him look about ten. An intelligent runt like me. He said what I expected. "Mia, do you want to go partners if we can get together when we get down?" I guess he thought that because we were always matched on study I liked him. Well, I did when I wasn't mad at him, but now I had that crack he'd made about being a snob in mind, so I said, "Not likely. I want to come back alive." It wasn't fair, but it was a good crack and he went back to his place without saying anything. My name is Mia Havero. I'm fourteen, of course, or I wouldn't be telling this. I'm short, dark and scrawny, though I don't expect that scrawniness to last much longer. Mother is very good looking. In the meantime. I've got brains as a consolation. After we were all settled, George Fuhonin, the pilot, raised the ramps. We sat there for five minutes while they bled air out of our tube and then we just... dropped. My stomach turned flips. We didn't have to leave that way, but George thinks it's fun to be a hot pilot. Thinking it over, I was almost sorry I'd been stinking to Jimmy D. He's the only competition I have my own age. The trouble is, you don't go partners with the competition, do you? Besides, there was still that crack about being a snob. The planet chosen for our Trial was called Tintera. The last contact the Ship had had with it -- and we were the ones who dropped them -- was almost # years ago. No contact since. That had made the Council debate a little before they dropped us there, but they decided it was all right in the end. It didn't make any practical difference to us kids because they never tell you anything about the place they're going to drop you. All I knew was the name. I wouldn't have known that much if Daddy weren't Chairman of the Council. I felt like crawling in a corner of the ship and crying, but nobody else was breaking down, so I didn't. I did feel miserable. I cried when I said good-by to Mother and Daddy -- a real emotional scene -- but that wasn't in public. I t wasn't the chance of not coming back that bothered me really, because I never believed that I wouldn't. The thought that made me unhappy was that I would have to be on a planet for a whole month. Planets make me feel wretched. The gravity is always wrong, for one thing. Either your arches and calves ache or every time you step you think you're going to trip on a piece of fluff and break your neck. There are vegetables everywhere and little grubby things just looking for you to crawl on. If you can think of anything creepier than that, you've got a real nasty imagination. Worst of all, planets stink. Every single one smells -- I've been on enough to know that. A planet is all right for a Mud-eater, but not for me. We have a place in the Ship like that -- the Third Level -- but it's only a thousand square miles and any time it gets on your nerves you can go up a level or down a level and be back in civilization. IF When we reached Tintera, they started dropping us. We swung over the sea from the morning side and then dropped low over gray-green forested hills. Finally George spotted a clear area and dropped into it. They don't care what order you go in, so Jimmy D. jumped up, grabbed his gear and then led his horse down the ramp. I think he was still smarting from the slap I'd given him. In a minute we were airborne again. I wondered if I would ever see Jimmy -- if he would get back alive. It's no game we play. When we turn fourteen, they drop us on the nearest colonized planet and come back one month later. That may sound like fun to you, but a lot of us never come back alive. Don't think I was helpless. I'm hell on wheels. They don't let us grow for fourteen years and then kick us out to die. They prepare us. They do figure, though, that if you can't keep yourself alive by the time you're fourteen, you're too stupid, foolish or unlucky to be any use to the Ship. There's sense behind it. It means that everybody on the Ship is a person who can take care of himself if he has to. Daddy says that something has to be done in a closed society to keep the population from decaying mentally and physically, and this is it. And it helps to keep the population steady. I began to check my gear out -- sonic pistol, pickup signal so I could be found at the end of the month, saddle and cinches, food and clothes. Venie Morlock has got a crush on Jimmy D., and when she saw me start getting ready to go, she began to check her gear, too. At our next landing, I grabbed Nine's reins and cut Venie out smoothly. It didn't have anything to do with Jimmy. I just couldn't stand to put off the bad moment any longer. The ship lifted impersonally away from Nine and me like a rising bird, and in just a moment it was gone. Its gray-blue color was almost the color of the half-overcast sky, so I was never sure when I saw it last II T he first night was hell, I guess because I'm not used to having the lights out. That's when you really start to feel lonely, being alone in the dark. When the sun disappears, somehow you wonder in your stomach if it's really going to come back. But I lived through it -- one day in thirty gone. I rode in a spiral search pattern during the next two days. I had three things in mind -- stay alive, find people and find some of the others. The first was automatic. The second was to find out if there was a slot I could fit into for a month. If not, I would have to find a place to camp out, as nasty as that would be. The third was to join forces though not with that meatball Jimmy D. No, he isn't really a meatball. The trouble is that I don't take nothing from nobody, especially him, and he doesn't take nothing from nobody, especially me. So we do a lot of fighting. fl I had a good month for Trial. My birthday is in November -- too dose to Year End Holiday for my taste, but this year it was all right. It was spring on Tintera, but it was December in the Ship, and after we got back we had five days of Holiday to celebrate. It gave me something to look forward to. In two days of riding, I ran onto nothing but a few odd-looking animals. I shot one small one and ate it. It turned out to taste pretty good, though not as good as a slice from Hambone No. #, to my mind the best meat vat on the Ship. I've eaten things so gruey-looking that I wondered that anybody had the guts to try them in the first place and they've turned out to taste good. And I've seen things that looked good that I couldn't keep on my stomach. So I guess I was lucky. On the third day, I found the road. I brought Nine down off the hillside, losing sight of the road in the trees, and then reaching it in file level below. It was narrow and made of sand spread over a hard base. Out of the marks in the sand, I could pick out the tracks of horses and both narrow and wide wheels. Other tracks I couldn't identify. One of the smartest moves in history was to include horses when they dropped the colonies. I say "they" because, while we did the actual dropping, the idea originated with the whole evac plan back on Earth. Considering how short a time it was in which the colonies were established, there was not time to set up industry, so they had to have draft animals. The first of the Great Ships was finished in #. One of the eight, as well as the two that were being built then, went up with everything else in the Solar System in #. In that sixteen years # colonies were planted. I don't know how many of those planets had animals that could have been substituted but, even if they had, they would have had to be domesticated from scratch. That would have been stupid. I'll bet that half the 'colonies would have failed if they hadn't had horses. over the ocean, so I traveled east on the road. That much water makes me nervous, and roads have to go somewhere. I came on my first travelers three hours later. I rounded a tree-lined bend, ducking an overhanging branch, and pulled Nine to a stop. There were five men on horseback herding a bunch of the ugliest creatures alive. They were green and grotesque. They had squat bodies, long limbs and knobby bulges at their joints. They had square, flat animal masks for faces. But they walked on their hind legs and they had paws that were almost hands, and that was enough to make them seem almost human. They made a wordless, chilling, lowing sound as they milled and plodded along. I started Nine up again and moved slowly to catch up with them. All the men on horseback had guns in saddle boots. They looked as nervous as cats with kittens. One of them IF had a string of packhorses on a line and he saw me and called to another who seemed to be the leader. That one wheeled his black horse and rode back toward me. He was a middle-aged man, maybe as old as my Daddy. He was large and he had a hard face. Normal enough, but hard. He pulled to a halt when we reached each other, but I kept going. He had to come around and follow me. I believe in judging a person by his face. A man can't help the face he owns, but he can help the expression he wears on it. If a man looks mean, I generally believe that he is. This one looked mean. That was why I kept riding. He said, "What be you doing out here, boy? Be you out of your head? There be escaped Losels in these woods." out yet, but I hadn't thought it was that bad. I wasn't ready to make a fight over the point, though. Generally, I can't keep my bloody mouth shut, but now I didn't say anything. It seemed smart. "Where be you from?" he asked. I pointed to the road behind us. "And where be you going?" I pointed ahead. No other way to go. He seemed exasperated. I have that effect sometimes. Even on Mother and Daddy, who should know better. We were coming up on the others now, and the man said, "Maybe you'd better ride on from here with us. For protection." He had an odd way of twisting his sounds, almost as though he had a mouthful of mush. I wondered whether he were just an oddball or whether everybody here spoke the same way. I'd never heard International English spoken any way but one, even on the planet Daddy made me visit with him. One of the other outriders came easing by then. I suppose they'd been watching us all the while. He called to the hard man. "He be awfully small, Horst. I doubt me a Losel'd even notice him at all. We mought as well throw him back again." The rider looked at me. When I didn't dissolve in terror as he expected, he shrugged and one of the other men laughed. The hard man said to the others, "This boy will be riding along with us to Forton for protection." I looked down at the plodding, unhappy creatures they were driving along and one looked back at me with dull, expressionless golden eyes. I felt uncomfortable. I said, "I don't think so." What the man did then surprised me. He said, "I do think so," and reached for the rifle in his saddle boot. I whipped my sonic pistol out so fast that he was caught leaning over with the rifle half out. His jaw dropped. He knew what I held and he didn't want to be fried. I said, "Ease your rifles out and drop them gently to the ground." They did, watching me all the while with wary expressions. When all the rifles were on the ground, I said, "All right, let's go." They didn't want to move. They didn't want to leave the rifles. I could see that. Horst didn't say anything. He just watched me with narrowed eyes. But one of the others held up a hand and in wheedling tones said, "Look here, kid... "Shut up," I said, in as mean a voice as I could muster, and he did. It surprised me. I didn't think I sounded that mean. I decided he just didn't trust the crazy kid not to shoot. After twenty minutes of easy riding for us and hard walking for the creatures, I said, "If you want your rifles, you can go back and get them now." I dug my heels into Nine's sides and rode on. At the next bend I looked back and saw four of them holding their packhorses and the creatures still while one beat a dustraising retreat down the road. I put this episode in the "file and hold for analysis" section in my mind and rode on, feeling good. I think I even giggled once. Sometimes I even convince myself that I'm hell on wheels. Ill gave me a painted wooden doll that my great-grandmother brought from Earth. The thing is that inside it, nestled one in another, are ejeven more dolls, each one smaller than the last. I like to watch people when they open it for the first time. My face must have been like that as I rode along the road. The country leveled into a great rolling valley and the trees gave way to great farms and fields. In the fields, working, were some of the green creatures, which surprised me since the ones I'd seen before hadn't seemed smart enough to count to one, let alone do any work. But it relieved me. I thought they might have been eating them or something. I passed two crossroads and started to meet more people, but nobody questioned me. I njet people on horsback, and twice I met trucks moving silently past. And I overtook a wagon driven by the oldest man I've seen in my life. He waved to me, and I waved back. Near the end of the afternoon I came to the town, and there I received a jolt that sickened me. By the time I came out on the other side, I was sick. My hands were cold and sweaty and my head was spinning, and I wanted to kick Nine to a gallop. I rode slowly in, looking all around, missing nothing. The town was all stone, wood and brick. Out of date. Out of time, really. There were no machines more complicated than the trucks I'd seen earlier. At the edge of town, I passed a newspaper office with a headline pasted remember that. I wondered about it. But I looked most closely at the people. In all that town, I didn't see one girl over ten years old and no grown-up women at all. There were little kids, there were boys and there were men, but no girls. All the boys and men wore pants, and so did I, which must have been why Horst and his buddies assumed I was IE a boy. It wasn't flattering; but I decided I'd not tell anybody different until I found what made the clocks tick on this planet. But that wasn't what bothered me. It was the kids. My God! They swarmed. I saw a family come out of a house -- a father and four children. It was the most foul thing I've ever seen. It struck me then -- these people were Free Birthers! I felt a wave of nausea and I closed my eyes until it passed. T he first thing you learn in school is that if it weren't for idiot and criminal people like these, Earth would never have been destroyed. The evacuation would never have had to take place, and eight There wouldn't have been eight billion people. But, no. They bred and they spread and they devoured everything in their path like a cancer. They gobbled up all the resources that Earth had and crowded and shoved one another until the final war came. I am lucky. My great-great-grandparents were among those who had enough foresight to see what was coming. If t hadn't been for them and some others like them, there wouldn't be any humans left anywhere. And I wouldn't be here. That may not scare you, but it scares me. What happened before, when people didn't use their heads and wound up blowing the Solar System apart, is something nobody should forget. The older people don't let us forget. But these people had, and that the Council should know. For the first time since I landed on Tintera, I felt really frightened. There was too much going on that I didn't understand. I felt a blind urge to get away, and when I reached the edge of town, I whomped Nine a good one and gave him his head. I let him run for almost a mile before I pulled him down to a walk again. I couldn't help wishing for Jimmy D. Whatever else he is, he's smart and brains I needed. How do you find out what's going on? Eavesdrop? That's a lousy piethod. For one thing, people can't be depended on to talk about the things you want to hear. For another, you're likely to get caught. Ask somebody? Who? Make the mistake of bracing a fellow like Horst and you might wind up with a sore head and an empty pocket. The best thing I could think of was to find a library, but that might be a job. I'd had two bad shocks on this day, but they weren't the last. In the late afternoon, when the sun was starting to sink and a cool wind was starting to ripple the tree leaves, I saw the scoutship high in the sky. The dying sun colored it a deep red. Back again? I wondered what had gone wrong. I reached down into my saddlebag and brought out my contact signal. The scoutship swung up in the sky in a familiar movement calculated to drop the stomach out of everybody aboard. George Fuhonin's style. I triggered the signal, my heart turning flips all the while. I didn't know why he was back, but I wasn't really sorry. The ship swung around until it was coming back on a path almost over my head, going in the same direction. Then it went into a slip and started bucking so hard that I knew this wasn't hot piloting at all, just plain idiot stutter-fingered stupidity at the controls. As it skidded by me overhead, I got a good look at it and knew that it wasn't one of ours. Not too different, but not ours. One more enigma. Where was it from? Not here. Even if you know how, and we wouldn't tell these Mud-eaters how, a scoutship is something that takes an advanced technology to build. I felt defeated and tired. Not much farther along the road, I came to a campsite with two wagons pulled in for the night, and I couldn't help but pull in myself. The campsite was large and had two permanent buildings on it. One was a well enclosure and the other was little more than a high-walled pen. It didn't even have a roof. I set up camp and ate my dinner. In the wagon closest to me were a man, his wife and their three children. The kids were running around and playing, and one of them ran close to the high-walled pen. His father came and pulled him away. The kids weren't to blame for their parents, but when one of them said hello to me, I didn't even answer. I know how lousy I would feel if I had two or three brothers and sisters, but it didn't strike me until that moment that it wouldn't even seem out of the ordinary to these kids. Isn't that horrible? About the time I finished eating, and before it grew dark, the old man I had seen earlier in the day drove his wagon in. He fascinated me. He had white hair, something I had read about in stories but had never seen before. When nightfall came, they started a large fire. Everybody gathered around. There was singing for awhile, and then the father of the children tried to pack them off to bed. But they weren't ready to go, so the old man started telling them a story. In the old man's odd accent, and sitting there in the campfire light surrounded by darkness, it seemed just right. It was about an old witch named Baba Yaga who lived in the forest in a house that stood on chicken legs. She was the nasty stepmother of a nice little girl, and to get rid of the kid, she sent her on a phony errand into the deep dark woods at nightfall. I could appreciate the poor girl's position. All the little girl had to help her were the handkerchief, the comb and the pearl that she had inherited from her dear dead mother. But, as it turned out, they were just enough to defeat nasty old Baba Yaga and bring the girl safely home. I wished for the same for myself. The old man had just finished and they were starting to drag the kids off to bed when there was a commotion on the road at the edge of the camp. I looked but my eyes were adjusted to the light of the fire and I couldn't see far into the dark. A voice there said, "I'll be damned if I'll take another day like this one, IF Horst. We should have been here hours ago. It be your fault we're not." Horst growled a retort. I decided that it was time for me to leave the campfire. I got up and eased away as Horst and his men came up to the fire, and cut back to where Nine was parked. I grabbed up my blankets and mattress and started to roll them up. I had a pretty good idea now what they used the highwalled pen for. I should have known that they would have to pen the animals up for the night. I should have used my head. I hadn't and now it was time to take leave. I never got the chance. I was just heaving the saddle up on Nine when I felt a hand on my shoulder and I was swung around. "Well, well. Horst, look who we have here," he called. It was the one who'd made the joke about me being beneath the notice of a Losel. He was alone with me now, but with that call the others would be up fast. I brought the saddle around as hard as I could and then up, and he went down. He started to get up again, so I dropped the saddle on him and reached inside my jacket for my gun. Somebody grabbed me then from behind and pinned my arms to my side. I opened my mouth to scream -- I have a good scream -- but a rough smelly hand clamped down over it before I had a chance to get more than a lungful of air. I bit down hard -- # lbs. psi, I'm told -- but he didn't let me go. I started to kick, but Horst jerked me off my feet and dragged me off. When we were behind the pen and out of earshot of the fire, he stopped dragging me and dropped me in a heap. "Make any noise," he said, "and I'll hurt you." That was a silly way to put it, but somehow it said more than if he'd threatened to break my arm or my head. It left him a latitude of things to do if he pleased. He examined his hand. There was enough moonlight for that. "I ought to club you anyway," he said. The one I'd dropped the saddle on came up then. The others were putting the animals in the pen. He started to kick me, but Horst stopped him. "No," he said. "Look through the kid's gear, bring the horse and what we can use." The other one didn't move. "Get going, Jack," Horst said in a menacing tone and they stood toe to toe for a long moment before Jack finally backed down. It seemed to me that Horst wasn't so much objecting to me being kicked, but was rather establishing who did the kicking in his bunch. But I wasn't done yet. I was scared, but I still had the pistol under my jacket. Horst turned back to me and I said, "You can't do this and get away with it." He said, "Look, boy. You may not know it, but you be in a lot of trouble. So don't give me a hard time." He still thought I was a boy. It was not time to correct him, but I didn't like to see the point go unchallenged. It was unflattering. "The courts won't let you get away with this," I said. I'd passed a courthouse in the town with a carved motto over the doors: something stuffy like that. type laugh, but a real laugh, so I knew I'd goofed. "Boy, boy. Don't talk about the courts. I be doing you a favor. I be taking what I can use of your gear, but I be letting you go. You go to court and they'll take everything and lock you up besides. I be leaving you your freedom." "Why would they be doing that?" I asked. I slipped my hand under my jacket. "Every time you open your mouth you shout that you be off one of the Ships," Horst said. "That be enough. They already have one of you brats in jail in Forton." I was about to bring my gun out when up came Jack leading Nine, with all my stuff loaded on. I mentally thanked him. He said, "The kid's got some good equipment. But I can't make out what this, be for." He held out my pickup signal. Horst looked at it, then handed it back. "Throw it away," he said. I leveled my gun at them -- Hell on Wheels strikes again! I said, "Hand that over to me." Horst made a disgusted sound. "Don't make any noise," I said, "or you'll fry. Now hand it over." I stowed it away, then paused with one hand on the leather horn of the saddle. "What's the name of the kid in jail in Forton." "I can't remember," he said. "But it be coming to me. Hold on." I waited. Then suddenly my arm was hit a numbing blow from behind and the gun went flying. Jack pounced after it and Horst said, "Good enough," to the others who'd come up behind me. , I felt like a fool. Horst stalked over and got the signal. He dropped it on the ground and said in a voice far colder than mine could ever be, because it was natural and mine wasn't, "The piece be yours." Then he tromped on it until it cracked and fell apart. Then he said, "Pull a gun on me twice. Twice." He slapped me so hard that my ears rang. "You dirty little punk." I said calmly, "You big louse." It was a time I would have done better to keep my mouth shut. All I can remember is a flash of pain as his fist crunched against the side of my face and then nothing. Brains are no good if you don't use them. IV I remember pain and sickness, and motion, but my next clear memory is waking in a bed in a house. I had a feeling that time had passed but how much I didn't know. I looked around and found the old man who had told the story sitting by my bed. IF "How be you feeling this: momteg, young lady?" he asked He had white hair and a seamed face and tea hands were gnarled and old. His face was red, and the red and the white of his hair made a sharp contrast with the bright blue of his deepset eyes. It was a good face. "Not very healthy," I said. "How long has it been?" "Two days," he said. "You'll get over it soon enough. I be Daniel Kutsov. And you?" "I'm Mia Havero." "I found you dumped in a ditch after Horst Fanger and his boys had left you," he said. "A very unpleasant man... as I suppose he be bound to be, herding Losels." "Those green things were Losels? Why are they afraid of them?" "The ones you saw beed drugged. They wouldn't obey otherwise. Once in awhile a few be stronger than the drug and they escape to the woods. The drug cannot be so strong that they cannot work. So the strongest escape. They be some danger to most people, and a great danger to men like Horst Fanger who buy them from the ships. Every so often, hunters go out to thin them down." "That seems like slavery," I said, yawning. It was a stupid thing to say, like some comment about the idiocy of a Free Birth policy. Not the sentiment, but the timing. Mr. Kutsov treated the comment with more respect than it deserved. "Only God can decide a question like that," he said gently. "Be it slavery to use my horses to work for me? I don't know anyone who would say so. A man be a different matter, though. The question be whether a Losel be like a horse or like a man, and that I can't answer. Now go to sleep again and in a while I will bring you some food." He left then, but I didn't go to sleep. I was in trouble. I had no way to contact the scoutship. There was only one way out, and that was to find somebody else who did have Ins signal. That wasn't going to be easy. Mr. Kutsov brought me some food later in the day, and I asked him then, "Why are you doing all this for me?" He said, "I don't like to see children hurt, by people like Horst Fanger or by anyone." "But I'm from one of the Ships," I said. "You know that, don't you?" Mr. Kutsov nodded. "Yes, I know that." "I understand that is pretty bad around here." "With some people, true. But all the people who hate the Ships don't realize that if it beedn't for the Ships they wouldn't be here at all. They hold their grudge too close to their hearts. There be some of us who disagree with the government though it has lost us our families or years from our lives, and we would not destroy what we cannot agree with. When such an one as Horst Fanger uses this as an excuse to rob and injure a child, I will not agree. He has taken all that you have and there is no way to reclaim it, but what I can give of my house be yours." IP I thanked him as best I could and then I asked him what the grudge was that they held against the Ships. "It ben't a simple thing." he said. "You have seen how poor and backward we be. We realize it. Now and again, when you decide to stop, we see you people from the Ships. And you ben't poor or backward. You could call what we feel jealousy, if you wanted, but it be more than that and different. When we beed dropped here, there beed no scientists or technicians among us. I can understand. Why should they leave the last places where they had a chance to use and develop their knowledge for a backward planet where there is no equipment, no opportunity? What be felt here be that all the men who survived the end of Earth and the Solar System be the equal heirs of man's knowledge and accomplishment. But by bad luck, things didn't work out that way. So ideas urged by the Ships be ignored, and the Ships be despised, and people from the Ships be treated as shamefully as you have beed or worse." I could think of a good example of an idea that the Ships emphasized that had been ignored. Only it was more than an idea or an opinion. It was a cold and deadly lesson taught by history. It was: Man becomes an organism that ultimately destroys itself unless he regulates his own size and growth. That was what I was taught. I said, "I can understand how they might feel that way, but it's not fair. We pretty much support ourselves. As much as we can, we re-use things and salvage things, but we still need raw materials. The only thing we have to trade is knowledge. If we didn't have anything to trade for raw materials, that would be the end of us. Do we have a choice?" "I don't hold you to blame," Mr. Kutsov said slowly, "but I can't help but to feel that you have made a mistake and that it will hurt you in the end." I didn't say it, but I thought -- when you lay blame, whom do you put it on? People who are obviously sick like these Mud-eaters, or people who are normal like us? After I got better, I had the run of Mr. Kutsov's house. It was a small place near the edge of Forton, surrounded by trees and with a small garden. Mr. Kutsov made a regular shipping run through the towns to the coast and back every second week. It was not a profitable business, but he said that at his age, profit was no longer very important. He was very good to me, but I didn't understand him. He gave me lessons before he let me go outside into the town. Women were second class citizens around here, but prejudice of that sort wasn't in Mr. Kutsov. Dressed as I was, as scrawny as I am, when people saw me here, they saw a boy. People see what they expect to see. I could get away with my sex, but not my accent. I might sound right on seven Ships and on #I other planets, but here I was wrong. And I had two choices -- sound right or shut up. One of these choices was impossible for me, so I et out to learn to sound like a Tinteran, born and bred, with Mr. Kutsov's aid. It was a long time before he was grade. He said, "All right. You should keep listening to people and correcting yourself, but I be satisfied. You talk as though you have a rag in your mouth, but I think you can get by." Before I went out into town, I found out one more important thing. It was the answer to a question that I didn't ask Mr. Kutsov. I'd been searching for it in old newspapers, and at last I found the story I was looking for. The last sentence read: "After sentencing, Dentermount was sent to the Territorial Jail in Forton to serve his threemonth term." I thought, they misspelled his name. And then I thought, trust it to be Jimmy D. He gets in almost as much trouble as I do. T hough you may think it strange, my first stop was the library. I've found that it helps to be well-researched. I got what I could from Mr Kutsov's books during the first days while he was outdoors working in his garden. In his library, I found a novel that he had written himself called The White Way. He said, "It took me forty years to write it, and I have spent fortytwo years since living with the political repercussions. It has beed an interesting forty-two years, but I am not sure that I would do it again. Read the book if you be interested." I did read it, though I couldn't understand what the fuss was about. It seemed reasonable to me. But these Myd-eaters were crazy anyway. I couldn't help but think that he and Daddy would have found a lot in common. They were both fine, tough-minded people, and though you would never know it to look at them, they were the same age. Except that at the age of eighty Mr. Kutsov was old, and at the age of eighty Daddy was not. It cost me an effort to walk through the streets of Forton, but after my third trip, the pain was less, though the number of children still made me sick. In the library, I spent four days getting a line on Tintera. I read their history. I studied their geography and, as sneakily as I could, I tore out the best local maps I could find. On my trips through town, I took the time to look up Horst Fanger's place of business. It was a house, a shed and pea for the Losels, a stable, a truck garage (one truck -- broken down) and a sale block, all house in one rambling, shanty building. Mr. Horst Fanger was apparently a big man. Big deal. When I was ready, I scouted out the jail. It was a raw unpleasant day, the sort that makes me hate planets, and rain was threatening when I reached the jailpen. It was a solid three-story building of great stone blocks, shaped like a fortress and protected by bars, an iron-spike fence and two nasty-looking dogs. On my second trip around, the rain began. I beat it to the front and dodged in the entrance. IF I was standing there, shaking the rain off, when a man in a green uniform came stalking out of one of the offices that lined the firstfloor hallway. My heart stopped for a moment, but he went right by without giving me a second look and went upstairs. That gave me some confidence and so I started poking around. I had covered ihe bulletin boards and the offices on one side of the hall when another man in green came into the hall and made straight for me. I didn't wait, I walked toward him, too. I said, as wide-eyed and innocent as I could, "Can you help me, sir?" "Well, that depends. What sort of help do you need?" He was a big, rather slow man with one angled cloth bar on his shirt front over one pocket and a plate that said ROthe other side. He seemed goodnatured. I said, "Jerry had to write about the capital, and Jimmy got the Governor, and I got you " "Hold on there. First, what be your name?" "Billy Davidow," I said. "I don't know what to write, sir, and I thought you could show me around and tell me things." "I be sorry, son," he said. "We be pretty caught up today. Could you make it some other afternoon or maybe some evening?" I said slowly, "I have to hand the paper in this week." After a minute, he said, "All right. I'll take you around. But I can't spare much time. It'll have to be a quick tour." The offices were on the first floor. Storage rooms, an arms room and a target range were in the basement. Most of the cells were on the second floor, with the very rough cases celled on the third. "If the judge says maximum security, they go on. the third, everybody else on the second unless wo have an overflow. Have a boy upstairs now." My heart sank. "A real bad actor. Killed a man." Well, that wasn't Jimmy. Not with a three-month sentence. Maximum security had three set of barred doors plus an armed guard. Sgt. Robards pointed it all out to me. "By this time next week, it will all be full in here," he said sadly. "The Governor has ordered a round-up of all political agitators. The Anti-Redemptionists be getting out of hand and he be going to cool them off. Uh, don't put that in your paper." "Oh, I won't," I said, crossing off on my notes. The ordinary cells on the second floor weFe behind no barred doors and I got a guided tour. I stared Jimmy D. right in the face, but he had the brains to keep his mouth shut. When we had finished, I thanked Sgt. Robards enthusiastically. "It sure has been swell, sir." "Not at all, son," he said. "I enjoyed it myself. If you have time some evening, drop by when T have the duty. My schedule bees on the bulletin board." "Thank you, sir," I said. "Maybe I will." V B efore I scouted the jail I had only vague notions of what I was going to do to spring Jimmy D. I had spent an hour or so, for instance, toying with the idea of forcing the Territorial Governor to release Jimmy at the point of a gun. I spent that much time with it because the idea was fun to think about, but I dropped it because it was stupid. I finally decided on a very simple course of action, one that could easily go wrong. It was my choice because it was the only thing I could pull off by myself that had a chance of working. Before I left the jail building, I copied down Sgt. Robards' duty schedule from the bulletin board. Then I went home. I spent the next few days shoplifting. Mr. Kutsov was laying in supplies, too, loading his wagon for his regular trip. I helped him load up, saving my shopping for my spare time. Mr. Kutsov wanted me to go along with him, but I couldn't, of course, and I couldn't tell him why. He didn't want to argue and he couldn't make me do anything I didn't want to do, so I had an unfair advantage. I just dug in my heels. Finally he agreed it was all right for me to stay alone in the house while he was gone. It was what I wanted, but I didn't enjoy the process of getting my own way as much as I did at home. There it is a more even battle. The day he picked to leave was perfect for my purposes. Mr. Kutsov said, "I'll be back in six days. Be you sure that you will be all right?" I said, "Yes. I'll be careful. You be careful, too." "I don't think it matters much any more at my age," he smiled. "Stay out of trouble." "I'll try," I said, and waved goodby. That was what I meant to do, stay out of trouble. Back in the house, I wrote a note of explanation for Mr. Kutsov and thanked him for all he had done. Then I dug my two small packs out of hiding and I was ready. I set out just after dark. It was sprinkling lightly, but I didn't mind it. It surprised me, but I enjoyed the feel of the spray on my face. In one pocket I had pencil and paper for protective coverage. In another pocket I had a single sock and a roll of tape. Just before I got to the jail, I filled the sock with wet sand. Inside there were lights on in only two first floor offices. Sgt. Robards was in one of them. "Hello, Sgt. Robards," I said, going in. "How be you tonight?" "Well enough," he said. "It be pretty slow down here tonight. They be busy up on the Third Floor tonight, though." "Oh?" "They be picking up those AntiRedemptionists tonight. How did your paper go?" "I handed it in," I said. "I should IF get a good grade with your help." "Oh, you found out everything you needed to know." "Oh, yes. I just came by to visit tonight. I wondered if you'd show me the target range again. That was keen." "Sure," he said. "Would you like to see me pop some targets? I be the local champion, you know." "Gee, would you?" We went downstairs, Sgt. Robards leading the way. This was the place I'd picked to drop him. He was about to slip the key in the door to the range when I slugged him across the back of the neck with my sock full of sand. I grabbed him and eased him down. I tried the keys on either side of the target door key and opened the arsenal on the second try. I dragged him in there and got out my roll of tape I took three quick turns about his ankles, then did the same with his wrists. I finished by putting a bar and two crosspieces over the mouth. I picked out two weapons then. They had no sonics, of course, so I picked out two of the smallest and lightest pistols in the room. I figured out what cartridges fit them, and then dropped guns and cartridge clips into my pocket. I swung the door shut and locked it again, leaving Sgt. Robards inside. I stood for a moment in the corridor with the keys in my hand. There were only ten keys, not enough to cover each individual cell. Yet Sgt. Robards had clinked these keys and said that he could unlock the cells. Maybe I would have done better to stick up the Territorial Governor. Well, here goes. I eased up to the first floor. Nobody came out of the second office to check on the noise made by my pounding heart, which surprised me. Then up to the second floor. It was dark here, but light from the first and third floors leaking up and down the stairs made things bright enough for me to see what I was doing. There were voices on the third floor and somebody laughed up there. I held my breath and moved quietly to Jimmy's cell. I whispered, "Jimmy!" and he came alert and moved to the door. "Am I glad to see you," he whispered back. I held up the keys. "Do any of these fit?" "Yes, the D key. The D key. It fits the four cells in this corner." I fumbled through until I had the key tagged D. I opened the cell with as few clinking noises as possible. "Come on," I said. "We've got to get out of here in a hurry." He slipped out and pushed the door shut behind him. We headed for the stairs and were almost there when I heard somebody coming up. Jimmy must have heard it, too, because he grabbed my arm and pulled me back. We flattened out as best we could. Talk about walking right into it! The policeman looked over at us and said, "What are you doing up here, Robards? Hey, you're not..." I stepped out and brought out one of the pistols. I said, "Easy now. If things go wrong for us, I have nothing to lose by shooting you. If you want to live, play it straight." He apparently believed me, because he put his hands where I could see them and shut up. I herded him into Jimmy's cell and let Jimmy do the honors with the loaded sock. We taped him up and while Jimmy was locking him in, I heard somebody in one of the cells behind me say, "Shut up, there," to somebody else. I turned and said, "Do you want to get shot?" The voice was collected. "No. No trouble here." "Do you want to be let out?" The voice was amused. "I don't think so. Thank you just the same." Jimmy finished and I asked, "Where is your signal? We have to have that." "In the basement with the rest of my gear." The signal was all we took. When we were three blocks away and on a dark side street, I handed Jimmy his gun and ammunition. As he took them, he said, "Tell me something, Mia. Would you really have shot him?" I said. "I couldn't have. I hadn't loaded my gun yet." I led him through town following the back ways I'd worked out before. Somebody once said that good luck is no more nor less than careful preparation, and this time I meant to have good luck. I led Jimmy toward the Losel-selling district. Jimmy is short and red-headed with a face that makes him look about four years younger than he is. That's a handicap any time. When you stand out anyway, it's likely to make you a little bit tart. But Jimmy's all right most of the time. He said, "We're in trouble." "No," Jimmy said. "They have a scoutship from one of the other Ships. This is going to sound wild, but they intend to use the scout to take over a Ship and then use that to destroy the rest of the Ships. They're going to try. The police are rounding up everybody who is opposed who has any influence and is putting them in jail." "So what?" "Mia, are you mad at me for something?" "What makes you think so?" "You're being bitter about something." "If you must know, it's that crack you made about me being a snob." "That was a month ago." "I still resent it." "Why?" Jimmy asked. "It's true. You think that because you're from a Ship that you're automatically better than any Mud-eater. That makes you a snob." "Well, you're no better," I said. "Maybe not, but I don't pretend. Hey, look, we can't get anywhere if we fight and we've got to stick together. I'll tell you what. I'll apologize. I'm sorry I said it, even if it is true. Make up?" "Okay," I said. But that was a typical trick of his. Get the last blow in and then call the whole thing off. When we got to Horst Fanger's place, I said, "I've got our packs all set up. This is where ive get our IF horses." I'd left this until last, not wanting people running around looking for stolen horses while I was trying to break somebody out of the police jail pen. Besides, for this I wanted somebody along as lookout. There was a fetid, unwashed odor that hung about the pens that the misting rain did nothing to dispel. We slipped by the pens, the Losels watching us but making no noise, and came to the stables, which smelled better. Jimmy stood guard while I broke the lock and slipped inside. Nine was there, good old Nincompoop, and a quick search turned up his saddle as well. I saddled him up and then stood watch while Jimmy picked himself out a horse and gear. I did one last thing before I left. I took out the pencil and paper in my pocket and wrote in correct Inter E, nail. It may have been childish, but it felt good. We rode from there to Mr. Kutsov's house, still following back alleys. As we rode, I told Jimmy about Mr. Kutsov and what he'd done for me. When we got there, we rode around to the back. "Hold the horses," I said. "I'll slip in and get the packs. They're just inside." We both dismounted and Jimmy took Nine's reins. I bounded up the steps. Mr. Kutsov was waiting in the dark inside. He said, "I read your note." "Why did you come back?" I asked. He smiled. "It didn't seem right to leave you here by yourself. I be sorry. I think I underestimated you. Be that Jimmy Dentremont outside?" "You're not mad?" "No. I ben't angry. I understand why you couldn't tell me." For some reason, Istarted crying and couldn't stop. The tears ran down my face. "I'm sorry," I said. "I'm sorry." The front door signal sounded then and Mr. Kutsov answered the door. A green-uniformed policeman stood in the doorway. "Daniel Kutsov?" he asked. Instinctively, I shrank back out of sight of the doorway. I swiped at my face with my sleeve. Mr. Kutsov said, "Yes. What can I do for you." The policeman moved one step inside the house where I could see him again. He said in a flat voice, "I have a warrant for your arrest." T here was only one light on in the house, in the front room. From the shadows at the rear I watched them both. The policeman had a hard mask for a face, no more human than a Losel. Mr. Kutsov was determined and I had the feeling that he had forgotten my presence. "To jail again? For my book?" He shook his head. "No." "It be nothing to do with any book I know of, Kutsov. It be known that you be an Anti-Redemptionist. So come along." He grasped Mr. Kutsov's arm. Mr. Kutsov shook loose. "No. I won't go to jail again. It be no crime to be against stupidity. I won't o" The policeman said "You be coming whether you want to or not. You be under arrest." Mr. Kutsov's voice had never shown his age before, but it shook now. "Get out of my house I" A sense of coming destruction grew on me as I saw the policeman lift his gun from its holster and say, "You be coming if I have to shoot." Mr. Kutsov swung his fist at the policeman and missed and, as though the man could afford to let nothing pass without retaliation, he swung the barrel of his pistol dully against the side of Mr. Kutsov's head. It rocked Mr. Kutsov, but he didn't fall. He raised his fist again. The policeman struck once more and waited but Mr. Kutsov still didn't fall. Instead, he swung again, and for the first time he landed, a blow that bounced weakly off the man's shoulder. Almost inevitably, it seemed, the policeman raised his pistol and fired directly at Mr. Kutsov, and then again, and as the second report rang Mr. Kutsov slid to the floor. The silence was loud and gaunt. The policeman stood looking down at him and said, "Old foott" under his breath. Then he came to himself ancf looked around. Then he picked a candlestick off the table and dropped it with a thud by Mr. Kutsov's empty outstretched hand. The noise was a release tor me and I moved for the first time. The policeman grunted and looked up and we stared at each other. Then again, slowly, he raised his gun and pointed it at me. I heard a snickering sound and the three reports rang out, one following another. The policeman stood for a moment, balanced himself and then, like a crumpled sheet of paper, he fell to the floor. I didn't even look at Jimmy behind me. I started to cry and I went to Mr. Kutsov, passing by the policeman without even looking at him. As I bent down beside him, his eyes opened and he looked at me. I couldn't stop crying. I held his head and cried. "I'm sorry," I said. "I'm sorry." He smiled and said faintly, but clearly, "It be all right." After a minute he closed his eyes, and then he died. After another minute, Jimmy touched my arm and said, "There's nothing we can do. Let's leave now, Mia, while we still can." Outside, it was still raining. Standing in the rain I felt deserted. VI T he final morning on Tintera was a fine day. We and the horses were in a rock-enclosed aerie where we had dodged the day before for shelter. In the aerie were grass and a small rock spring, and this day, the final day, was bright with blue and piled clouds riding high. From where we sat, looking from the top of the rock wall, we could see over miles of expanse. Lower hills and curving valleys all covered IF with a rolling carpet of trees, a carpet of varying shades of gray and green. There were some natural upland meadows, and clearings in the valleys, and far away a line drawn in the trees that might be the path of a river. Down there, under that carpet, were all sorts of things -- wild Losels, men hunting us, and -- perhaps -- some of the others from the Ship. We had seen the Losels and they had seen us; they had gone their way and we had gone ours. The men hunting us for blowing up their scoutship we hadn't seen for four days, and even then they hadn't seen us. As for the others, we hadn't seen them at all. But they might be there, under the anonymous carpet. Jimmy got up from the ground and brushed himself off. He brought the signal over to me and said, "Should I. or do you want to?" "Go ahead," I said. He triggered it. George Fuhonin was piloting and we were the sixth and seventh aboard. The other five crowded around and helped us put our gear away. Jimmy went on inside and I went upstairs to talk to George. I was up there by the time we were airborne. "Hello, Halfpint," George said. "Hi, Georgie-Worgie," I said, dealing blow for blow. "Have you had any trouble picking us up?" "No trouble yet. You trying to wish me problems?" "No," I said. "This is a real nasty planet. They had Jimmy D. locked up in jail. They hate everybody from the Ships." "Oh." George raised his eyebrows. "Well, that might explain the board." He pointed to the board of lights above and to his left. Twenty-nine were marked for the twenty-nine of us. Of the twenty-nine, only twelve were lit. "The last light came on two hours ago. If there aren't any more, this will be the most fatal Triafl Group I've ever picked up." I stayed' upstairs .through two more pickups. Joe Fernandez-Fragoso, and then another double of which Venie Morlock was one half. T went downstairs to say hello to her: "ITire were just settling down   when George set off the alarm. He was speaking in the elder brother tone that I can't stand. "All right, kids -- shut up and listen. One of our people is down there. I didn't get close enough to see who. Whoever it is is surrounded by some of the local peasantry and we've got to bust him out. I'm going to buzz down and try to land on some of them. Then I want all of you outside and laying down a covering fire. Got that? I'm starting on down now." Some of the kids had their weapons with them, but Jimmy and I didn't. We hopped for the gear racks and got out our pistols. There were ten of us and four ramps to the outside. Jimmy and I had No. # to ourselves. George is a hotrodder, as Tve said, and after he gave us a long moment to get in place, he started down, a stomach-heaving swoop. Then he touched down light as a feather and dropped the ramps. Jimmy and I dived down the ramp and I went left and he went right. We were on a slight slope facing down and my momentum and the slant put me right where I wanted to be -- flat on my face. I rolled behind a tree and looked over to see Jimmy almost hidden in a bush. Here, hundreds of miles from where we had been picked up, it was misting under a familiar rolled gray sky. In my ears was the sound of gunfire from the other side of the ship and from below us. Our boy was pinned fifty yards down the slope behind some rocks that barely protected him. He was fighting back. I could see the sighting beam of his sonic pistol slapping out. About thirty feet away from him toward us was the body of his horse. I recognized him then -- a meatball named Riggy Allen. I took all this in in seconds, and then I raised my pistol and fired, aiming at his attackers. They were dug in behind trees and rocks, at least partly hidden from Riggy as he was hidden from them. From where we were, though, above and looking down, they could be picked out. The distance was too great for my shot and it plowed up earth ten feet short, but the man I aimed at ducked back behind cover. There was a certain satisfaction in one of these guns. Where a sonic pistol is silent, these made enough noise that you knew you were doing something. And when you missed with a sonic pistol, all you could expect at most was a shriveled branch or a sere and yellow leaf, but a miss with this gun could send up a gout of earth or drive a hole in a tree big enough to scare the steadiest man you can find. I aimed higher and started to loft my shots in. Jimmy was doing the same thing, and the net effect was to keep their heads down. Riggy finally got the idea after a long moment. He stood up and started racing up the hill. Then my gun clicked empty, and a second later the firing to my right stopped. I started to fumble for another clip. As our fire stopped, those heads popped back up again and took in the situation. They began to fire again and our boy Riggy took a long step and then dived over the body of his horse and went flat. I n a moment I was firing again, and then Jimmy was, too, and Riggy was up and running again. Then I started thinking clearly and held my fire while Jimmy emptied his clip. The instant he stopped, I started again, a regular squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. As I finished, Jimmy opened with his new clip and then Riggy was past us and up the ramp. He went flat in the doorway there and started firing his sonic pistol; its range was greater than our peashooters and he hosed the whole area down while Jimmy and I sprinted for the ramp. As we hit the inside of the ship, I yelled, "Raise No. #!" George had either been watching or listening, because it lifted smoothly up and locked in place. Shots were still coming from the other sides of the ship, so I yelled at Jimmy to go left. Riggy just stood there for a moment fuzzy-headed, IF but Jimmy gave him a shove to the right and he finally got the idea. I cut through the middle. In the doorway of No. #, I skidded flat on my face again and looked for targets. I dropped all my clips in front of me and began to fire. When the clip was empty, in two quick motions I pulled out the old one and slapped in the new and fired again. The three I was covering for used their heads and slipped in one at a time. As the second one came aboard, I heard Jimmy's voice call to raise No, # from my left. My third was Venie Morlock and as she ran aboard, I couldn't resist tripping her flat. I yelled to George to raise No. #. Venie glared at me and demanded, "What was that for?" as the ramp swung up. "Just making sure you didn't get shot," I said, lying. A second later, Riggy yelled that his side was okay and the last ramp was raised. My last view of Tintera was of a rainsoaked hillside and men doing their best to kill us, which all seems appropriate somehow. As the last ramp locked in place, George lifted the ship again and headed for the next pickup. I went over to say hello to Riggy. He'd been completely unhurt by the barrage, but he had a great gash on his arm that was just starting to heal. He said that he was minding hit own business in the woods one day when a Losel jumped out from bohind a bush and slashed him. That may sound reasonable to you, but you don't know Riggy. I do. My opinion is that it was probably the other way around -- the Losel was walking along in the woods one day, minding his own business, when Riggy jumped out from a bush and scared him. That is the sort of thing Riggy is inclined to do. Riggy had been sneaking a look at my gun, and now he said, "Where did you get that neat pistol? Let me see it." I handed it over. After a minute of inspection, Riggy asked, "You wouldn't want to trade, would you?" "For your sonic pistol?" "Yes. You want to?" I considered it for a minute, and then I said, "All right," and we traded. There is a certain amount of satisfaction in shooting an antique like that, but I know which is the Clifford D. Simak's Finest Science-Fiction Novel begins in the current (June) issue of Galaxy, plus stories and features  by Keith Laumer, Gordon R. Dickson, Willy Ley and others. June issue  still on sale -- get your copy today! more effective weapon. Besides, I only had one full clip of ammunition left. T here is a certain amount of prestige in coming back alive from Survival. It's your key to adulthood. There were no brass bands waiting for us when we got back, but our families were there, and that was enough. The fifteen of us went down the lowered ramp, and when I stood again on solid rock, I looked around that ugly, bare scout bay and just drank it in. Home. I turned to Jimmy then and I said, "Jimmy, it's a relief to be back, isn't it? And that isn't snobbery. It might have been before, but I don't think I am now." And Jimmy nodded. The waiting room wasn't bare. They had the decorations up for Year End, colored mobiles with lights that ranged through the spectrum, and more decorations on the walls. In the crowd of people waiting for us, I saw Jimmy's mother and her present husband, and Jimmy's father and his wife. When they saw Jimmy, they started waving and shouting. Just as I said, "I'll see you tonight," I saw Mother and Daddy standing off to one side, and I waved. It was as though I had left the real world entirely for a month, and now at last I was back where things were going on and I wasn't missing a thing. I ran to them and I kissed Mother and hugged Daddy. Mother was crying. I leaned back in Daddy's arms and looked up at him. He put a measuring hand over my head and said, "Mia, I believe you've grown some." It might be so. I felt taller. i Now m Worlds of Tomorrow -- "Most Americans now breathing have a good chance of physical life after death -- a sober, scientific probability of revival and rejuvenation of their frozen bodies # Immortality' complete in the June issue of Worlds of Tomorrowl  Plus great new science-fiction stories by Arthur C. Clarke, Damon Knight, Mack Reynolds and many more!  June issue of Worlds of Tomorrow still on sale -- get your copy todayl IF IF  Feature Special Reports Men of Space; by Shirley Thomas. # volumes (so far). Chilton Co., Philadelphia; Each # to # pp. f king-sized (# x ##-). Indexed and illustrated. Each #. N ow here's a set of books it's easy to throw rocks at. It's big, glossy and authored by a lady with more than trace amounts of Wideeye and Gush. Tt's big, and most irritatingly peopled by men who, absolutely and unnaturally without exception, are dedicated, fearless, papoint where you'd weep for joy at a single small mention of a wart or a pair of dirty feet or a touch of greed. It's big... and utterly uncricitcal of the moral posture, the philosophies and the political convictions of its subjects. Most of all, it's an easy target... it's so big. Be it known at this point that we've thrown all the rocks we're going to throw. We further depose and say that the above carping has to be modified in every particular. If Miss Thomas exhibits gush, it is not in much more than trace amounts. As to the rest, they are purely destructive criticisms. What the alternatives would, be to the uncritical approach in a work of this kind, we simply can't imagine. And a writer who wouldn't, on occasion fall into hyperbole when handling such a subject would have no soul and negligible glands. For -- it's big. Big as space. Big as human doggedness and human aspiration. And if you don't rise to these for themselves, the books have something else that's very special. First, a simple statement of what Miss Thomas has set out to do. Back of the spacemen are the space-men, just as a pilot is only the apex of a widening spearhead of crew, groundcrew, maintenance, field operations, manufacture and design personnel. Shepard, Glenn, Gagarin, Crossfield are names which readily come to mind in the spaceman category, and behind them, everyone knows, are von Braun, Teller, Doolittle, Pierce. Now, how freely can you identify Kantrowitz, Flickinger, Ramo and Toftoy? The Glenns and the von Brauns would be the first to say -- and have saidthat without these others, the space effort would be nothing at all, nor would they themselves be anything but anonymous (and probably angry). Overwhelmed at first by the sheer size of the volumes and their subjects, the reader will skim through some of the names and events he knows -- and will suddenly find he now knows more than he did. He then wets a toe in a Truax or a Townes (who he?) and, before he knows it, he's nostril deep in the torrent. Mrs. Thomas does her homework. Her usual format is some sort of narrative hook, a few paragraphs of refresher material (reminding you what you vaguely remember about this or that device or development -- satellite tracking or Dyna-Soar), then an account of how it was brought about and finally a biography of the man himself, with a very genuine effort to understand what shaped the man to this particular end. It is in the body of each narrative, the part which explains what it is the man did, that Miss Thomas gives you that something special we mentioned above. If she is going to tell you who invented the travelling wave tube (which she does) she will tell you what it is, what it's for, how it works and what it means. She does it clearly and lucidly and as accurately as a non-scientific vocabulary can manage. And you find yourself -- perhaps even in spite of yourself -- gradually oiling your irritations with the balm of wonder, as she uses her really remarkable ability to translate technicalities into meaningful American. Sometimes even she has her hands full, as in her determined effort to convey to you the essence of Samuel Herrick's paper, Step-by-Step Integration of xf(x,y,z,t ) Without a Corrector or A Modification of the te Variation of Constants " Method for Special Perturbations; but by golly, she makes it; and you find it's important and germane, for Samuel Herrick is the tracker supreme -- a man who out of his own talent and curiosity made a practical discipline out of the problem of locating bodies in orbit. As a young man, already deeply interested, he wrote to the only authority he knew of for guidance. "... as far as I know, no courses (are) given anywhere on the subject," answered Dr. Robert H. Goddard... Let us, for sampling, take Vol. # from the top. It has an impressive imprimatur , as have they all; the advisory board for the series is Lt. Gen. (U.S.A.F.) Donald Putt, Senator Styles Bridges Dr. E. M. Emme (N.A.S.A. historian), M. W. MacFarlane (Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics, Library of Congress), Sorenson, U. of Nebraska, Sen. Stuart Symington and Dr. E. C. Walsh, (Exec. Sec., N.A.S.A.). The foreword is by General Schreiver, AF Systems Command, the preface by Captain Merril. The biographies are: James H. Doolittle; C. Stark Draper, M.I.T., instrumentation and guidance; Louis G. Dunn, rd man for Atlas, Thor, Titan and MinuteIU IF man; Don D. Flickinger, space medicine; Yuri Gagarin; Arthur Kantrowitz, nose-cones and re-entry; Admiral Raborn, the Polaris man; Harold W. Ritchey, solid fuel developer -- X-l , Nike, Hercules; Alan Shepard; and H. N. Toftoy, who originated "Paperclip", the effort that brought German rocket scientists to the U.S. after the war, and then sparked Redstone and Jupiter. Then the index; and in the middle is a photographic section, covering each of these men andor his work. Let us stress again that these are not Who's-Who type thumbnail sketches. In every case, Miss Thomas has researched the man's work as well as the man, and she just won't let go until she understands it and then does the same for you. And this, in the long run, is the true value of these books. But if you're at all interested in space -- and it would be hard to imagine that you weren't, or you wouldn't be reading this particular page -- you'll see the huge advantage in having, in one package, an indexed treasure-trove of readily understandable space subjects -- practically anything you can think of -- history, biography, fuels, guidance systems, tracking, nuclearand thermo-nuclear energy, astrophysics anddynamics andmechanics and just plainnomy, and anything else you can think of and a lot you won't until you spin through those indexes. And don't let that heavy price tag throw you. Go down to your public library and ask them to put in the set, and keep the new ones on order. Not so much to get definitive and complete information on all these sciences and disciplines, but to get enough of a grasp of them to enable you to go on to more specialized reading. And don't be surprised if the librarian and the Book Committee, or whatever setup your library has, eagerly buys the books for you. It happens that we are on the Book Committee of our local library, and can attest how wonderful it is when the public requests something which doesn't happen to be on the glop-of-the-month folder, or the breast-seller list. h tr sfir   ns IP  Short Story The alien came as a friend. He could not help looking like man's ultimate Enemy! T he children came running toward him, laughing and shouting, up from the lakeside to the spot on the grassy hill where he lay reading; and as Dr. John Donaldson saw what was clutched in the hand of his youngest son, he felt an involuntary tremor of disgust. "Look, John! Look what Paul caught!" That was his oldest, Joanne. She was nine, a brunette rapidly growing tan on this vacation trip. Behind her came David, eight, fair-haired and lobster-skinned, and in the rear was Paul, the six-yearold, out of breath and gripping in his still pudgy hand a small green frog. Donaldson shoved his book -- Haley, Studies in Morphological Linguistics -- to one side and sat up. Paul thrust the frog almost into his face. "I saw it hop, John -- and I caught it!" He pantomimed the catch with his free hand. "I saw him do it," affirmed David. The frog's head projected between thumb and first finger; two skinny webbed feet dangled free at the other end of Paul's hand, while the middle of the unfortunate batrachian was no doubt being painIF fully compressed by the small clammy hand. Donaldson felt pleased by Paul's display of coordination, unusual for a six-year-old. But at the same time he wished the boy would take the poor frog back to the lake and let it go. "Paul," he started to say, "you really ought to -- " The direct-wave phone at the far end of the blanket bleeped, indicating that Martha, back at the bungalow, was calling. "It's Mommy," Joanne said. Somehow they had never cared to call her by her first name, as they did him. "See what she wants, John." Donaldson sprawled forward and activated the phone. "Martha?" "John, there's a phone-call for you from Washington. I told them you were down by the lake, but they say it's important and they'll hold  M on Donaldson frowned. "Who from Washington?" "Caldwell, he said. Bureau of Extraterrestrial Affairs. Said it was urgent." Sighing, Donaldson said, "Okay. I'm coming." He looked at Joanne and said, as if she hadn't heard the conversation at all, "There's a call for me and I have to go to the cottage to take it. Make sure your brothers don't go into the water while I'm gone. And see that Paul lets that confounded frog go." Picking up his book, he levered himself to his feet and set out for the phone in the bungalow at a brisk trot. C aldwell's voice was crisp and efficient and not at all apologetic as he said, "I'm sorry to have to interrupt you during your vacation, Dr. Donaldson. But it's an urgent matter and they tell us you're the man who can help us." "Perhaps I am. Just exactly what is it r you want?" "Check me if I'm wrong on the background. You re Professor of Linguistics at Columbia, a student of the Kethlani languages and author of a study of Kethlani linguistics published in #." "Yes, yes, that's all correct. But -- " "Dr. Donaldson, we've captured a live Kethlan. He entered the System in a small ship and one of our patrol vessels grappled him in, ship and all. We've got him here in Washington and we want you to come talk to him." For an instant Donaldson was too stunned to react. A live Kethlan? That was like saying, We've found a live Sumerian, or. We've found a live Etruscan. The Kethlani languages were precise, neat and utterly dead. At one time in the immeasurable past the Kethlani had visited the Solar System. They had left records of their visit on Mars and Venus, in two languages. One of the languages was translatable, because the Martians had translated it into their own, and the Martian language was still spoken as it had been a hundred thousand years before. Donaldson had obtained his doctorate with what was hailed as a IF of the Kethlani language. But a live Kethlan? Why -- After a moment he realized he was staring stupidly at his unevenlytanned face in the mirror above the phone cabinet, and that the man on the other end of the wire was making impatient noises. Slowly he said, "I can be in Washington this afternoon, I guess. Give me some time to pack up my things. You won't want me for long, will you?" "Until we're through talking to the Kethlan," Caldwell said. "All right," Donaldson said. "I can take a vacation any time. Kethlani don't come along that often." He hung up and peered at his face in the mirror. He had had curly reddish hair once, but fifteen years of the academic life had worn his forehead bare. His eyes were mild, his nose narrow and unemphatic, his lips thin and pale. As he studied himself, he did not think he looked very impressive. He looked professorial. That was to be expected. "Well?" Martha asked. Donaldson shrugged. "They captured some kind of alien spaceship with a live , one aboard. And it seems I'm the only person who can speak the language. They want me right away." "You're going?" "Of course. It shouldn't take more than a few days. You can manage with the children by yourself, can't you? I mean -- " She smiled faintly, walked around behind him and kneaded the muscle of his sun-reddened back in an affectionate gesture. "I know better than to argue," she said. "We can take a vacation next year." He swiveled his left hand behind his back, caught her hand and squeezed it fondly. He knew she would never object. After all, his happiness was her happiness --  and he was never happier than when working in his chosen field. The phone-call today would probably lead to all sorts of unwanted and unneeded publicity for him. But it would also bring him academic success, and there was no denying the genuine thrill of finding out how accurate his guesses about Kethlani pronunciation were. "You'd better go down to the lake and get the children," he said. "I'll want to say good-by before I leave." T hey had the ship locked in a stasis-field in the basement of the Bureau of E-T Affairs Building, on Constitution Avenue just across from the National Academy of Sciences. The great room looked like nothing so much as a crypt, Donaldson thought as he entered. Beam-projectors were mounted around the walls, focussing a golden glow on the ship. Caught in the field, the ship hovered in midair, a slim, strange-looking torpedo-like object about forty feet long and ten feet across the thickest place. A tingle rippled up Donaldson's spine as he saw the Kethlani cursives painted in blue along the hull. He translated them reflexively: Bringer of Friendship. "That's how we knew it was a Ketblani ship," Caldwell said, at his side. He was a small, intense man who hardly reached Donaldson's shoulder; he was Associate Director of the Bureau, and in his superior's absence he was running the show. Donaldson indicated the projectors. "How come the gadgetry? Couldn't you just sit the ship on the floor instead of floating it that way?" "That ship's heavy," Caldwell said. "Might crack the floor. Anyway, it's easier to maneuver this way. We can raise or lower the ship, turn it, float it in or out of the door." "I see," Donaldson said. "And you say there's a live Kethlan in there?" Caldwell nodded. He jerked a thumb toward a miniature broadcasting station at the far end of the big room. "We've been in contact with him. He talks to us and we talk to him. But we don't understand a damned bit of it, of course. You want to try?" Donaldson shook his head up and down in a tense affirmative. Caldwell led him down to the radio set, where an eager-looking young man in military uniform sat making adjustments. Caldwell said, "This is Dr. Donaldson of Columbia. He wrote the definitive book on Kethlani languages. He wants to talk to our friend in there." A microphone was thrust into Donaldson's hands. He looked at it blankly, then at the pink face of the uniformed man, then at the ship. The inscription was in Kethlani. A language, for which Donaldson was grateful. There were two Kethlani languages, highly dissimilar, which he had labeled A and B. He knew his way around in A well enough, but his mastery of Kethlani B was still exceedingly imperfect. "How do I use this thing?" "You push the button on the handle, and talk. That's all. The Kethlan can hear you. Anything he says will be picked up here." He indicated a tape-recorder and a speaker on the table. D onaldson jabbed down on the button, and, feeling a strange sense of disorientation, uttered two words in greeting in Kethlani A. The pronunciation, of course, was sheer guesswork. Donaldson had worked out what was to him a convincing Kethlani phonetic system, but whether that bore any relation to fact remained to be seen. He waited a moment. Then the speaker emitted a series of harsh, unfamiliar sounds -- and, buried in them like gems in a kitchen-midden, Donaldson detected familiar-sounding words. "Speak slowly," he said in Kethlani A. "I... have only a few words." The reply came about ten seconds later, in more measured accents. "How... do... you... speak our language?" Donaldson fumbled in his small vocabulary for some way of explaining that he had studied Kethlani documents left behind on Mars centuries earlier, and compared them with their understandable Martian translations until he had pried some sense out of them. IF He glimpsed the pale, sweat-beaded faces of the E-T men around him; they were mystified, wondering what he was saying to the alien but not daring to interrupt. Donaldson felt a flash of pity for them. Until today the Bureau had concerned itself with petty things: import of Martian antiquities, study visas for Venus, and the like. Now, suddenly, they found themselves staring at an extra-solar spaceship, and . all the giant problems that entailed. "Find out why he came to the Solar System," Caldwell whispered. "I'm trying to," Donaldson murmured with some irritation. He said in Kethlani, "You have made a long journey." "Yes... and alone." "Why have you come?" There was a long moment of silence; Donaldson waited, feeling tension of crackling intensity starting to build within him. The unreality of the situation obsessed him. He had been fondly confident that he would never have the opportunity to speak actual Kethlani, and that confidence was being shattered. Finally: "I... have come... why?" The inversion was grammatically correct. "Yes," Donaldson said. "Why?" Another long pause. Then the alien said something which Donaldson did not immediately understand. He asked for a repeat. It made little sense -- but, of course, his Kethlani vocabulary was a shallow one, and he had additional difficulty in comprehending because he had made some mistakes in interpreting vowel values when constructing his Kethlani phonetics. But the repeat came sharp and clear, and there was no mistaking it: "I do... do not like to talk this way. Come inside my ship and we will talk there." iTXhat's he saying?" Caldwell   prodded. Shaken, Donaldson let the mike dangle from limp fingers. "He -- he says he wants me to come inside the ship. He doesn't like longdistance conversations." Caldwell turned at a right angle and said to a waiting assistant, "All right. Have Mathews reverse the stasis-field and lower the ship. We're going to give the Kethlan some company." Donaldson blinked. "Company? You mean you're sending me in there?" "I sure as hell do mean that. The Kethlan said it's the only way he'd talk, didn't he? And that's what you're here for. To talk to him. So why shouldn't you go in there, eh?" "Well -- look, Caldwell, suppose it isn't safe?" "If I thought it was risky, I wouldn't send you in," Caldwell said blandly. Donaldson shook his head. "But look -- I don't want to seem cowardly, but I've got three children to think about. I'm not happy about facing an alien being inside his own ship, if you get me." "I get you," said Caldwell tiredly. "All right. You want to go home? You want to call the whole business off right here and now?" "Of course not. But -- " "But then you'll have to go in." "How will I be able to breathe?" "The alien air is close enough to our own. He's used to more carbon dioxide and less oxygen, but he can handle our air. There's no problem. And no risk. We had a man in there yesterday when the Kethlan opened the outer lock. You won't be in any physical danger. The alien won't bother you." "I hope not," Donaldson said. He felt hesitant about it; he hadn't bargained on going inside any extra solar spaceships. But they were clustered impatiently around him, waiting to send him inside, and he didn't seem to have much choice. He sensed a certain contempt for him on their faces already. He didn't want to increase their distaste. "Will you go in?" Caldwell asked. "All right. All right. Yes. I'll go in." Nervously Donaldson picked up the microphone and clamped a cold finger over the control-button. "Open your lock," he said to the alien being. "I'm coming inside." '"T'here was a moment's delay while the stasis-field projectors were reversed, lowering the ship gently to floor level. As soon as it touched, a panel in the gleaming golden side of the ship rolled smoothly open, revealingan inner panel. Donaldson moistened his lips, handed the microphone to Caldwell and walked uncertainly forward. He reached the lip of the airlock, stepped up over it, and into the ship. Immediately the door rolled shut behind him, closing him into a chamber about seven feet high and four feet wide, bordered in front and back by the outer and inner doors of the lock. He waited. Had he been claustrophobic he would have been hysterical by now. But l never would have come in here in the first place then, he thought. He waited. More than a minute passed; then, finally, the blank wall before him rolled aside, and the ship was open to him at last. He entered. At first it seemed to him the interior was totally dark. Gradually, his retinal rods conveyed a little information. A dim light flickered at one end of the narrow tubular ship. He could make out a few things: rows of reinforcing struts circling the ship at regularly spaced distances; a kind of control-panel with quite thoroughly alien-looking instruments on it; a large chamber at one end which might be used for storage of food. But where # s the alien? Donaldson wondered. He turned, slowly, through a three hundred sixty degree rotation, squinting in the dimness. A sort of mist hung before his eyes; the alien's exhalation, perhaps. But he saw no sign of the Kethlan. There was a sweetish, musky odor in the ship, unpleasant though not unbearable. "Everything okay?" Caldwell's voice said in his earphones. "So far. But I can't find the alien. It's damnably dark in here." "Look up," Caldwell advised. "You'll find him. Took our man a while too, yesterday," IF Puzzled, Donaldson raised his head and stared into the gloomshrouded rafters of the ship, wondering what he was supposed to see. In Kethlani he said loudly, "Where are you? I see you not." "I am here," came the harsh voice, from above. Donaldson looked. Then he backed away, double-taking, and looked again. A great shaggy thing hung head down against the roof of the ship. Staring intently, Donaldson made out a blunt, piggish face with flattened nostrils and huge flaring ears; the eyes, bright yellow but incredibly tiny, glittered with the unmistakable light of intelligence. He saw a body about the size of a man, covered with darkish thick fur and terminating in two short, thick, powerfullooking legs. As he watched the Kethlan shivered and stretched forth its vast leathery wings. In the darkness, Donaldson could see the corded muscular arm in the wing, and the very humanlooking fingers which sprouted from the uppermost part of the wing. Violent disgust rose in him, compounded from his own general dislike for animals' and from the halfremembered Transylvanian folktales that formed part of every child's heritage. He felt sick; he controlled himself only by remembering that he was in essence an ambassador, and any sickness would have disastrous consequences for him and for Earth. He. dared not offend the Kethlan. My God , he thought. An intelligent bat! H e managed to stammer out the words for greeting, and the alien responded. Donaldson, looking away, saw the elongated shadow of wings cast across the ship by the faint light at the other end. He felt weak, wobbly-legged; he wanted desperately to dash through the nowclosed airlock. But he forced himself to recover balance. He had a job to do. "I did not expect you to know Kethlani," the alien said. "It makes my job much less difficult." "And your job is -- ?" "To bring friendship from my people to yours. To link our worlds in brotherhood." The last concept was a little muddy to Donaldson; the literal translation he made mentally was children ofone-cave , but some questioning eventually brought over the concept of brotherhood. His eyes were growing more accustomed to the lighting, now, and he could see the Kethlan fairly well. An ugly brute, no doubt of it -- but probably I look just as bad to him, he thought. The creature's wingspread was perhaps seven or eight feet. Donaldson tried to picture a world of the beasts, skies thick with leather-winged commuters on their way to work. Evolution had made numerous modifications in the bat structure, Donaldson saw. The brain, of course; and the extra fingers, aside from the ones from which the wings had sprouted. The eyes looked weak, in typical bat-fashion, but probably there was compensation by way of keen auditory senses. Donaldson said, "Where is your world?" "Far from here. It -- " The rest of the answer was unintelligible to Donaldson. He felt lavage impatience with his own limited vocabulary; he wished he had worked just a little harder on translating the Syrtis Major documents. Well, it was too late for that now, of course. Caldwell cut in suddenly from outside. "Well? We're picking up all the jabber. What's all the talk about?" "Can't you wait till I'm finished?" Donaldson snapped. Then, repenting, he said: "Sorry. Guess I'm jumpy. Seems he's an ambassador from his people, trying to establish friendly relations with us. At least, I think so. I'll tell you more when I know something about it." S lowly, in fits and starts the story emerged. Frequently Donaldson had to ask the Kethlan to stop and double back while he puzzled over a word. He had no way of recording any of the new words he was learning, but he had always had a good memory, and he simply tucked them away. The Kethlani had visited the Solar System many years ago. Donaldson was unable to translate the actual figure, but it sounded like a lot. At that time, the Martians were at the peak of their civilization, and Earth was just an untamed wilderness populated by naked primates. The Kethlan wryly admitted that they had written off Earth as a potential place of civilization because a study of the bat population of Earth had proved unpromising. They had never expected the primates to evolve this way. But now they had returned, thousands of years later. Mars was bleak and its civilization decayed, but the third world had unexpectedly attained a high degree of culture and was welcome to embrace the Kethlani worlds in friendship and amity. "How many worlds db you inhabit?" The Kethlan counted to fifteen, by ones. "There are many others we do not inhabit, but simply maintain friendly relations with. Yours would be one, we hope." The conversation seemed to dwindle to a halt. Donaldson had run out of questions to ask, and he was exhausted by the hour-long strain of conversing in an alien language, under these conditions, within a cramped ship, talking to a creature whose physical appearance filled him with loathing and fear. His head throbbed. His stomach was knotted in pain and sweat made his clothes cling clammily to his body. He started to grope for ways to terminate the interview; then an idea struck him. He quoted a fragment of a document written in pure Kethlani B. There was an instant of stunned silence; then the alien asked in tones of unmistakable suspicion, "Where did you learn that language?" "I haven't really learned it. I just know a few words." He explained that he had found IF examples of both Kethlani A and Kethlani B along with their Martian equivalents; he had worked fairly comprehensively on the A language, but had only begun to explore the B recently. The Kethlan seemed to accept that. Then it said: "That is not a Kethlani language." Surprised, Donaldson uttered the interrogative expletive. The Kethlan said, "It is the language of our greatest enemies, our rivals, our bitter foes. It is the Thygnor tongue." "But -- why did we find your language and the other side-by-side, then?" After a long pause the alien said, "Once Thygnor and Kethlan were friends. Long ago we conducted a joint expedition to this sector of space. Long ago, before the rivalry sprang up. But now -- " the alien took on a sorrowful inflection -- "now we are enemies." That explained a great many things, Donaldson realized. The differences between Kethlani A and Kethlani B had been too great for it to seem as if one race spoke both of them. But a joint expedition -- that made it understandable. "Some day, perhaps, the Thygnor will visit your world. But by then you will be on guard against them." "What do they look like?" The alien described them, and Donaldson listened and was revolted. As far as he could understand, they were giant intelligent toads, standing erect, amphibian but warmblooded, vile-smelling, their bodies exuding a nauseous thick secretion. Giant toads, bats, the lizards of Mars -- evidently the primate monopoly of intelligence was confined solely to Earth, Donaldson realized. It was a humbling thought. His face wrinkled in displeasure at the mental image of the toad-people the Kethlan had created for him, as he recalled the harmless little frog Paul had captured by the lake... H e spoke in English, attracting Caldwell's attention, and explained the situation. "He wants me to swear brotherhood with him. He also says there's another intelligent race with interstellar travel -- toads, no less -- and that they're likely to pay us a visit some day too. What should I do?" "Go ahead and swear brotherhood," Caldwell said after a brief pause. "It can't hurt. We can always unswear it later, if we like. Say we had our fingers crossed while we were doing it, or something. Then when the frogs get here we can find out which bunch is better for us to be in league with." The cynicism of the reply annoyed Donaldson, but it was not his place to raise any objections. He said to the alien, "I am prepared to pledge brotherhood between Earth and the Kethlan worlds." The Kethlan fluttered suddenly down from its perch with a rustle of great wings, and stood facing Donaldson, tucking its wings around its thick shaggy body. Alarmed, Donaldson stepped back. The alien said reassuringly, "The way we pledge is by direct physical embrace, symbolizing harmony and friendship across the cosmos." He unfurled his wings. "Come close to me." No! Donaldson shrieked inwardly, as the mighty wings rose high and wrapped themselves about him. Go away! Don't touch me! He could smell the sweet, musky smell of the alien, feel its furry warmth, hear the mighty heart pounding, pounding in that massive ribcage... Revulsion dizzied him. He forced himself to wrap his arms around the barrel of a body while the wings blanketed him, and they stood that way for a moment, locked in a tight embrace. At length the alien released him. "Now we are friends. It is only the beginning of a long and fruitful relationship between our peoples. I hope to speak with you again before long." It was a dismissal. On watery legs Donaldson tottered forward toward the opening airlock, pausing only to mutter a word of farewell before he stumbled through and out into the arms of the waiting men outside. "W e I #?" Caldwell demanded. "What happened? Did you swear brotherhood?" "Yes," Donaldson said wearily. "I swore." The stench of the alien ciung to him, sweet in his nostrils. It was as though throbbing wings still enfolded him. "I'm leaving now," he said. "I still have a little of my vacation left. I want to take it." He gulped a drink that someone handed him. He was shaking and gray-faced, but the effect of the embrace was wearing off. Only an irrational phobia , he told himself.  shouldn't be reacting this way. But already he was beginning to forget the embrace of the Kethlani, and the rationalization did him no good. A new and more dreadful thought was beginning to develop within him. He was the only Terrestrial expert on Kethlani B, too -- the Thygnor tongue. And some day, perhaps soon, the Thygnor were going to come to Earth, and Caldwell was going to impress him into service as an interpreter again. He wondered how the toad-people pledged eternal brotherhood. IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: If may not be a slick magazine, but it is the most fun to read of any science-fiction magazine on the market today. It is nice to know that there is a magazine where not only new authors can try their talents, but where the greats like Heinlein can use a freer style than the restrictions of the other magazines, with their strictly set editorial policies, will allow. The ending of the Heinlein novel was a novelette in itself, with too little continuity with the first two installments. Presumably this will be toned down and abridged and then hardbacked as r. juvenile, which is a pity, since the way it is now it packs an impact in spite of its disjointed style. As in most Heinlein novels the description was more entertaining than the action, and there were a number of loose ends in the plot. I certainly don't want a detailed explanation breaking in, mystery story style, but there is no reason I can see for "Uncle Tom" being set free without a more certain hold on him than they had, for example. The big trouble is that Heinlein let his reputation get in the way, and avoided the melodramatic action sequences which would have been less believable but more appropriate, and more fun. The letter column was much too short. Now that you have room for "another full length novelette", you should have room for a five-page letter column at least. Admittedly you seem to have an unbelievable wealth of story material to use, with Heinlein and McIntosh .n this issue, and Clement and Budrys in the next, but it won't hurt to spread all this talent over a very slightly longer space, and give the reader a chance to comment on it. Rick Norwood Bellingrath Southwestern Memphis #, Tennessee Dear Editor: For the first time in perhaps half a year, I believe I will write you one of my interminable letters of comment on your sterling publications, each of which pretends to come from a different publishing house. Perhaps your Mr. Guinn is a megalomaniac? As usual, Galaxy is good for its long fiction and disappointing in its short. Out ofeven short stories in the last three issues, only one (On the Fourth Planet) was good. This is the sort of sf that is really rewarding. Worlds of Tomorrow looks quite promising, assuming that the first issue is indicative of the editorial policy. These stories are all good, to one degree or another, and I can't quite put my finger on whatever it is about the total effect that makes it so different from Galaxy or If. I think it's because these stories are almost entirely straightforward. If: Who was it who referred to it as Worlds of Galaxy Rejects? That is not very fair, but If certainly does read as a poor man's Galaxy. When Whirly birds Call should not have been published; This Way to the Egress was unintelligible, for me. The Shipshape Miracle had a very Sheckleyish plot -- but Shockley should have handled it, since he knows how to do it right. With Simak (who is used to an entirely different type of story) at the helm, it reads rather clumsily. Capjbain of the Kali : Wow! You're right, there is a find! Gary Wright has done a fine job with an interesting story, and I hope you will encourage him to keep writing. # particularly appreciate a story which is well enough expressed that one can pick out one sentence that will give the theme of the story; here, you have: "There was no alien here but himself." To keep on a happy note, The Time Tombs was another good story. Ballard is a writer who does give a good clear picture of the society he ha placed his plot in, and the plot was worthwhile one. Saline Solution: I for one enjoy Retief. I'm fully happy with him as long as the readers don't go around screaming about what a wonderful writer he is. Or else, ho,w terrible the series is. Let's get one thing straight: Retief is sheer space opera... but what on Earth is wrong with well-handled space opera? The Tem-Point Princess is yet another good story. Considering the usual half-and-half quality of If, this seems to be a bumper crop. McIntosh just touched on the important and debatable point, "... Only we don't call it prostitution. What do you dislike about the way the Leontans do it. General?" But he did drive in his main point pretty well. Rmmmn, I wonder if he purposely wrote The Ten-Point Princess as an answer to Vercors' Le Silence De La Mer. And now, Podkayne of Mars. Boy, is that Heinlein getting lazy. In the first installment nothing happens. It could have taken up one chapter, or possibly two, in a well-balanced novel. The second installment could have been cut down a good deal, and the third was reasonably full the way it stood. Or, in other words, this novel was quite incomplete, as such. Ah, well you may ask, what else might Heinlein have said? Where could the plot have gone? Not very far, certainly, but certainly it is not an unworkable plot. No, the problem is simply this: Podkayne should have been what you IF call a Novella. But Heinlein was too lazy to condense, when he had almost guaranteed sales, anyway. And there was obviously another reason: a novella could not be sold to Scribner's or somesuch as a juvenile, which is what will clearly happen to this: one. To be brief, it appears to have been a mistake for Heinlein to use this plot, unless he could make more of a story of it And if he could, why didn't he? And that's it. I no longer have the strength to comment on anything but the fiction. And it is a good thing that this letter is not even vaguely aimed at "Hue and Cry". By my count, it holds more words than the last three installments of "Hue and Cry" put together! # Brighton Street Belmont, Mass.    Dear Editor: There are a few things about science fiction that might arouse some worthwhile response from your formidable readers. First: Science-fiction distribution is a problem. Not all towns get all science-fiction titles, even when the titles which do appear sell out in a day or two. Better distribution means better sales and better sales could mean a better magazine. Second : According to hearsay, science-fiction pocketbooks outsell science-fiction magazines about # to #. Pocketbooks depend largely on sf magazines for their material. The reader has little friendly newsy discourse with the pocketbook. The reader can't know when the pocketbook should be on the stands or what is coming out. So if the pocketbook doesn't strike the wholesaler as profitable he can warehouse it and swear it didn't sell. In places I have seen several people read science fiction, but most of them read only pocketbooks. Why? "Magazines have cheap comic-book type covers and the stories are probably on the same level." Or more often: "Magazine stories are too short. I like long novels." Is this true everywhere? Third: Sf magazines seem better than ever and may be selling better ktely. Yet they ought alsQ to reach the pocketbook audience so they can read the "better" stories "earlier" when they first appear. How can this be done? Large format suggests quality to many people. Arty pocketbook covers sell to still more people. Long novels sell to still more people. Slicker paper will sell a few copies. Color inside will sell more copies; color sells, in this culture of ours. Fourth: Does science fiction need another "almost hopeless cause" like space flight used to be? Now, how about promoting interstellar travel, something besides rocket drives, religion and space, what is human and what is food, the general ethics of man in the universe ; the sea, genetic improvement of the human creativeness vs. the regurgative memory, or the human mind. These are all science-fiction themes, but the general public only recognizes cigar-shaped spaceships as the content of science fiction. Or does science fiction need only color, wonder and conviction? Or does it need to catch the eye and flatter the intellect of more readers? Or are we a closed corporation actually afraid of new people and new ideas? Is science fiction our own private, secure, finished outpost from which we will not venture? Are we really more venturesome than Mrs. Fuddelfade next door who is still afraid of science fiction? The art work in our magasines, which is still mostly rehash of # hack pulp art, suggests we might need a little intellectual courage. We might face a tiger, but new iaeas make us tremble. Or is the great body of science-fiction world still raring to go to Hell and back for the sheer hell of proving it's there? Five : could a well established magazine like Galaxy go # by #I inches, shorter material, and maybe twocolor art, better paper, and a small science section to pick up ads, and sell for # cents or a dollar per copy per month? Don't yell yet, readers. Because threj poor or mediocre sf magazines cost you # a month anyway. Why not get it all in one good pcckage? Such a package could attract the best writers and artists and put science fiction or a very substantial footing. It would take nerve and money to possible? Six : Pm not n upstart newcomer or a senile oldster. I've purchased about every science-fiction magazine published since #, the exceptions being Planet , Captain Future and a certain Shaver matter. I care a lot about science fiction and how beautifully it is printed and how well it sells How about you? Roscoe Wright  West. Mont. College Art Department Dillon. Montana  Is it possible? Probably not -- or not at #c or . dollar, anyway. Or ret without a far heavier volume of advertising than any sf magazine has ever had . or ; s ever likely to get Rut it's an attractive thought! Editor Dear Editor: Congratulations on raising your price ; hope it stays that way because I've thought out the griir alternatives: you fold, or you go back to your rut. Seems to me as if you'll be trying for a Hugo i: #, if you can keep up this quality for five more issues. One thing about a long letter: You can chop out one paragraph and run it as a letter.    Nathan A...Bucklin P. #. Box # Dockton, Mass. Or -- as in this case -- a paragraph and a half I But even with such Herculean measures, we're out of space again. To those who didn't get their missives in -- sorry, and please don't stop sending them! This issue's "first" is a young fellow named Bruce McAllister who hails from California -- and Italy, Washington, D.C., the Riviera and wherever else the orders of his Navy captain father took him; we liked The Faces Outside , and hope you will too. Not quite a "first", but still an unfamiliar name in sciencefiction magazines, is Alexei Panshin. Down to the Worlds of Men is actually the second story he sold, but we don't count the first, because it appeared in one of those slickpaper things that have nothing to offer their contributors but prestige, pleasure, pride and money. By the way, did you notice who leads off our next issue? He's practically a discovery, at that; he hasn't written a new story for a science-fiction magazine in nearly fifteen years, until he finally gave in and wrote this one for us. Name's Van Vogt. We think he'll catch on. Editor IF If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed With new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers-challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohl, Davidson, Simak, Bloch, Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Send me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Name Address . City. Zone State Use coupon or order by letter if you wish Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) its vividly real telepathic society, detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finishing the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Vs OF foo Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, Name Address City State I Enclose The Original Edition -- Complete I Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours For Only #I Plus Postage # i SEPT. IF  SCIENCE FICTION # A. E. VAK VOGrsicttor, lyit--: H# If you wonder what happened to the "'wonder in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writerschallenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Poht, Davidson, Simak, Bloch. Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! it #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. yps' end me the next # hig issues of IF! I enclose # (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.; Name Address City Zone State Use coupon or order by letter li you wish Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feafuro Editor Sol Cohen, Fubfisher David Perton, Production Manager Rose M. Bianchini, Art Director Cover by Wenzel from The Course of Logic IF published bi-monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-clast postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All Material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and mny similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial A local feller just got himself a patent on a new cigarette filter. vSeems that the semi-precious mineral tourmaline is pyroelectric; that is, when heated, tourmaline crystals become polarized, with a negative charge at one end and a positive charge at the other. Cigarette smoke is warm enough to bring this about. The charged crystals attract and trap tar particles. He claims his filters can compete favorably with lesser breeds. Here's a perfect candidate for what I called here, about a year ago, the Kick Yourself Department. This contains all the ideas that were staring you right in the face all along, you fool you, until some other guy came along and turned it into money. Not that this odd quality of tourmaline is exactly staring you in the face. It has, however, surely been known for a long time; but it takes one guy with that special connection in his cranial wiring to put it to work. The m.an who invented the filter had been ordered by his doctor to quit smoking, which he reluctantly did; he was annoyed enough to work on the problem. He actually built an electrostatic filter in a holder, powered by batteries. Then, when his son brought some books home from college, he bumped into the tourmaline thing -- and there you go. My son's exhibit in the Science Fair last year was a microscope made of a juice can and a soup can, some wood scraps and some slips of window-glass. The lens is a drop of IF be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of mans mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious UBe Rosicrucians organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share tbt practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of mo book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address; Scribe E.p.P. Scribe E.Q.F. Sao Jose, California Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Ufe, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. Namp Addrcss City water. The design came from a mechanical magazine, but we redesigned it a little and made an illuminator for it and dressed it up with flat black paint. lts a pretty good little instrument -- # power or so. Won a prize, too. Well, the phenomenon of drops of water that magnify wax in front of people's faces -- literally for thousands of years. Dew in the bushes, in the early morning with the sun low and shining right through the drops -- you almost have to see such a thing. Yet apparently nobody did! And can you imagine world history if someone had, say in ancient Egypt or Babylon? Wouldn't glass lenses follow as a matter of course? There's a Kick Yourself if there ever was one. T here are plenty of phenomena kicking around waiting to get broke and harnessed. Some arc right out front, and some are hiding in Joe College's science book, but they're around. For instance, if you use palladium as one electrode in an electrolysis tank, you won't get any hydrogen gas for quite a time, because the palladium will absorb nearly a thousand times its own volume of hydrogen. It gloms on to the H# good and hard, too -- you can't scrape it off, knock it off or pump it out. Heat will do it easily. Hasn't anyone got a home for that? Then there's the Barr Effect -- the ballet a drop of water will perform on a sheet of hot metal -- which I haven't space to describe here but which Steve Himself Barr has written up. Sugarlumps will sometimes give off light when rubbed or broken in the dark. A balloon filled with C# is attracted to the resonance box of a tuning fork. One filled with hydrogen is repelled. An iron tank containing gas under pressure will lose it all if heated red, even though no measurable opening appears, and it becomes gas-tight when it cods... Do you have any like these -- useless, or little-used, or littleknown unharnessed phenomena? If so, send 'em in! When we've accumulated enough, we'll run a column on them, with names of the donors included. Who knows? You might be responsible for the invention-ignition process in an Edison or Steinmetz who won't know he is one until he sees your contribution. If I sparked some stranger that way, I might kick myself a little -- but I think I'd be glad to do it! -- T.H.S. II I II I IJ I A great new novelette of interplanetary adventure by Hal Clement LI LI LI LI II IJ # IF IF  NoveUtt# The alien was deadly, dangerous and inhuman -- but he was not the most feared enemy on the ship! I O ne hundred and nine years after leaving Earth, the spaceship, Hope of Man, went into orbit The following "morning" Captain Browne informed the shipload of fourth and fifth generation colonists that a manned lifeboat would be dropped to the planet's surface. "Every member of the crew must consider himself expendable," he said earnestly. "This is the day that our great grandparents, our forefathers, who boldly set out for the new space frontier so long ago, looked forward to with unfaltering courage. We must not fail them." He concluded his announcement over the intercom system of the big ship by saying that the names of the crew members of the lifeboat would be given out within the hour. y "And I know that every real man aboard will want to see his name there' John Lesbee, the fifth of his line aboard, had a sinking sensation as he heard those words -- and he was not mistaken. Even as he tried to decide if he should give the signal for a desperate act of rebellion, Captain Browne made the expected announcement. The commander said, "And I know you will all join him in his moment of pride and courage when I tell you that John Lesbee will lead the crew that carries the hopes of man in this remote area of space. And now the others -- " He thereupon named seven of the nine persons with whom Lesbee had been conspiring to seize control of the ship. Since the lifeboat would only hold eight persons, Lesbee recognized that Browne was dispatching as many of his enemies as he could. He listened with a developing dismay, as the commander ordered all persons on the ship to come to the recreation room. "Here I request that the crew of the lifeboat join me and the other officers on stage. Their instructions are to surrender themselves to any craft which seeks to intercept them. They will be equipped with instruments whereby we here can watch, and determine the stage of scientific attainments of the dominant race on the planet below." L esbee hurried to his room on the technicians' deck, hoping that perhaps Tellier or Cantlin would seek him out there. He felt himself in need of a council of war, however brief. He waited five minutes, but not one member of his conspiratorial group showed. Nonetheless, he had time to grow calm. Peculiarly, it was the smell of the ship that soothed him most. From the earliest days of his life, the odor of energy and the scent of metal under stress had been perpetual companions. At the moment, with the ship in orbit, there was a letting up of stress. The smell was of old energies rather than new. But the effect was similar. He sat in the chair he used for reading, eyes closed, breathing in that complex of odors, product of so many titanic energies. Sitting there, he felt the fear leave his mind and body. He grew brave again, and strong. Lesbee recognized soberly that his plan to seize power had involved risks. Worse, no one would question Browne's choice of him as the leader of the mission. "I am," thought Lesbee, "probably the most highly trained technician ever to be on this ship." Browne Three had taken him when he was ten, and started him on the long grind of learning that led him, one after the other, to master the mechanical skills of all the various technical departments. And Browne Four had continued his training. He was taught how to repair relay systems. He gradually came to understand the purposes of countless analogs. The time came when he could visualize the entire automation. Long ago, the colossal cobweb IF of electronic instruments within the walls had become almost an extension of his nervous system.  During those years of work and study, each daily apprenticeship chore left his slim body exhausted. After he came off duty, he sought a brief relaxation and usually retired to an early rest. He never did find the time to learn the intricate theory that underlay the ship's many operations. His father, while he was alive, had made numerous attempts to pass his knowledge on to his son. But it was hard to teach complexities to a tired and sleepy boy. Lesbee even felt slightly relieved when his parent died. It took the pressure off him. Since then, however, he had come to realize that the Browne family, by forcing a lesser skill on the descendant of the original commander of the ship, had won their greatest victory. As he headed finally for the recreation room, Lesbee found himself wondering: Had the Brownes trained him with the intention of preparing him for such a mission as this? His eyes widened. If that was true, then his own conspiracy was merely an excuse. The decision to kill him might actually have been made more than a decade ago, and light years away... A s the lifeboat fell toward Alsat in the twin control chairs and watched on the forward screen the vast, misty atmosphere of the planet. Tellier was thin and intellectual, a descendant of the physicist Dr. Tellier who had made many speed experiments in the early days of the voyage. It had never been understood why spaceships could not attain even a good fraction of the speed of light, let alone velocities greater than light. When the scientist met his untimely death, there was no one with the training to carry on a testing program. It was vaguely believed by the trained personnel who succeeded Tellier that the ship had run into one of the paradoxes implicit in the Lorenz-Fitzgerald Contraction theory. Whatever the explanation, it was never solved. Watching Tellier, Lesbee wondered if his companion and best friend felt as empty inside as he did. Incredibly, this was the first time he -- or anyone -- had been outside the big ship. "We're actually heading down," he thought, "to one of those great masses of land and water, a planet." As he watched, fascinated, the massive ball grew visibly bigger. They came in at a slant, a long, swift, angling approach, ready to jet away if any of the natural radiation belts proved too much for their defense systems. But as each stage of radiation registered in turn, the dials showed that the lifeboat machinery made the proper responses automatically. The silence was shattered suddenly by an alarm bell. Simultaneously, one of the screens focused on a point of rapidly movIF ing light far below. The light darted toward them. A missile! Lesbee caught his breath. But the shining projectile veered off, turned completely around, look up position several miles away, and began to fall with them. His first thought was; "They'll never let us land," and he experienced an intense disappointment. Another signal brrred from the control board. "They're probing us," said Tellier, tensely. An instant after the words were uttered, the lifeboat seemed to shudder and to stiffen under them. It was the unmistakable feel of a tractor beam. Its field clutched the lifeboat, drew it, held it. habitants was already proving itself formidable. Underneath him the lifeboat continued its movement. The entire crew gathered around and watched as the point of brightness resolved into an object, which rapidly grew larger. It loomed up close, bigger than they. There was a metallic bump. The lifeboat shuddered from stem to stem. Even before the vibrations ceased Tellier said, "Notice they put our airlock against theirs." Behind Lesbee, his companions began that peculiar joking of the threatened. It was a coarse comedy, but it had enough actual humor suddenly to break through his fear. Involuntarily he found himself laughing. Then, momentarily free of anxiety, aware that Browne was watching and that there was no escape;, he said, "Open the airiock! Let the aliens capture us as ordered." II A few minutes after the outer airlock was opened, the airlock of the alien ship folded back also. Rubberized devices rolled out and contacted the Earth lifeboat, sealing off both entrances from the vacuum of space. Air hissed into the interlocking passageway between the two craft. In the alien craft's lock, an inner door opened. Again Lesbee held his breath. There was a movement in the passageway. A creature ambled into view. The being came forward with complete assurance, and pounded with something he held at the end of one of his four leathery arms on the hull. The creature had four legs and four arms, and a long thin body held straight up. It had almost no neck, yet the many skin folds between the head and the body indicated great flexibility was possible. Even as Lesbee noted the details of its appearance, the being turned his head slightly, and its two large expressionless eyes gazed straight at the hidden wall receptor that was photographing the scene, and therefore straight into Lesbee's eyes. Lesbee blinked at the creature, then tore his gaze away, swallowed hard, and nodded at Tellier. "Open up!" hr commanded. The moment the inner door of the Earth lifeboat opened, six more of the four-legged beings appeared ojic after another in the passageway, and walked forward in the same confident way as had the first. All seven creatures entered the open door of the lifeboat. As they entered their thoughts came instantly into Lesbee's mind... A s Dzing and his boarding party trotted from the small Karn ship through the connecting airlock, his chief officer thought a message to him. "Air pressure and oxygen content are within a tiny percentage of what exists at ground level on Karn. They can certainly live on our planet." Dzing moved forward into the Earth ship, and realized that he was in the craft's control chamber. There, for the first time, he saw the men. He and his crew ceased their forward motion; and the two groups of beings -- the humans and the Karn -- gazed at each other. The appearance of the two-legged beings did not surprise Dzing. Pulse viewers had, earlier, penetrated the metal walls of the lifeboat and had accurately photographed the shape and dimension of those aboard. His first instruction to his crew was designed to test if the strangers were, in fact, surrendering. He commanded: "Convey to the prisoners that we require them as a precaution to remove their clothing."... Until that direction was given, Lesbee was still uncertain as to whether or not these beings could receive human thoughts as he was receiving theirs. From the first moment, the aliens had conducted their mental conversations as if they were unaware of the thoughts of the human beings. Now he watched the Karn come forward. One tugged suggestively at his clothing. And there was no doubt. The mental telepathy was a oneway flow only -- from the Karn to the humans. He was already savoring the implications of that as he hastily undressed... It was absolutely vital that Browne do not find it out. Lesbee removed all his clothes; then, before laying them down, took out his notebook and pen. Standing there naked he wrote hurriedly: "Don't let on that we can read the minds of these beings." He handed the notebook around, and he felt a lot better as each of the men read it, and nodded at him silently. Dzing communicated telepathically with someone on the ground. "These strangers," he reported, "clearly acted under command to surrender. The problem is, how can we now' let them overcome us without arousing their suspicion that this is what we want them to do?" Lesbee did not receive the answer directly. But he picked it up from Dzing's mind: "Start tearing the lifeboat apart. See if that brings a reaction." T he members of the Kam boarding party went to work at once. Off came the control panels; floor plates were melted and ripped up. Soon instruments, wiring, it controls were exposed for examination. Most interesting of all to the aliens were the numerous computers and their accessories. Browne must have watched the destruction; for now, before the Karn could start wrecking the automatic machinery, his voice interjected: "Watch out, you men! I'm going to shut your airlock and cause your boat to make a sharp right turn in exactly twenty seconds." Few Lesbee and Tellier that simply meant sitting down in their chairs, and turning them so that the acceleration pressure would press them against the backs. The other men sank to the ripped-up floor, and braced themselves. Underneath Dzing, the ship swerved. The turn began slowly, but it propelled him and his fellows over to one wall of the control room. There he grabbed with his numerous hands at some handholds that had suddenly moved out from the smooth metal. By the time the turn grew sharper, he had his four short legs braced, and he took the rest of the wide swing around with every part of his long, sleek body taut. His companions did the same. Presently, the awful pressure eased up, and he was able to estimate that their new direction was almost at right angles to what it had been. He had reported what was happening while it was going on. Now, the answer came: "Keep on destroying. See what they do, and be prepared to succumb to anything that looks like a lethal attack." Lesbee wrote quickly in his notebook: "Our method of capturing them doesn't have to be subtle. They'll make it easy for us -- so we can't lose." Lesbee waited tensely as the notebook was passed around. It was still hard for him to believe that no one else had noticed what he had about this boarding party. Tellier added a note of his own: "It's obvious now that these beings were also instructed to consider themselves expendable." And that settled it for Lesbee. The others hadn't noticed what he had. He sighed with relief at the false analysis, for it gave him that most perfect of all advantages: that which derived from his special education. Apparently, he alone knew enough to have analyzed what these creatures were. The proof was in the immense clarity of their thoughts. Long ago, on earth, it had been established that man had a faltering telepathic ability, which could be utilized consistently only by electronic amplification outside his brain. The amount of energy needed for the step-up process was enough to burn out brain nerves, if applied directly. Since the Karn were utilizing it directly, they couldn't be living beings. Therefore, Dzing and his fellows were an advanced robot type. were not risking their own skins at all. Far more important to Lesbee, he could see how he might use these marvellous mechanisms to defeat Browne, take over the Hope of Man, and start the long journey back to Earth. m H e had been watching the Karn at their work ot destruction, while he had these thoughts. Now, he said aloud: "Hainker, Graves." "Yes?" The two men spoke together. "In a few moments Tm going to ask Captain Browne to turn the ship again. When he does, use our specimen gas guns!" The men grinned with relief. "Consider it done," said Hainker. Lesbee ordered the other four crewmen to be ready to use the specimen-holding devices at top speed. To Tcllier he said, "You take charge if anything happens to me." Then he wrote one more message in the notebook: "These beings will probably continue their mental intercommunication after they are appvrently rendered unconscious. Pay no attention, and do not comment on it in any way." He felt a lot better when that statement also had been read by the others, and the notebook was once more in his possession. Quickly, he spoke to the screen: "Captain Browne! Make another turn, just enough to pin them," And so they captured Dzing and his crew. As he had expected, the Karn continued their telepathic conversation. Dzing reported to his ground contact: "I think we did that rather well." There must have been an answering message from below, because he went on, "Yes, commander. We are now prisoners as per your instructions, and shall await events... The imprisoning method? Each of us is pinned down by a machine which has been placed astride us, with the main section adjusted to the contour of our bodies. A series of rigid metal appendages fasten our arms and legs. All these devices are electronically controlled, and we can of course escape at any time. Naturally, such action is for later..." Lesbee was chilled by the analysis; but for expendables there was no turning back. He ordered his men: "Get dressed. Then start repairing the ship. Put all the floor plates back except the section at G-#. They removed some of the analogs, and Td better make sure myself that it all goes back all right." When he had dressed, he reset the course of the lifeboat, and called Browne. The screen lit up after a moment, and there staring back at him was the unhappy countenance of the forty-year-old officer. Browne said glumly: "I want to congratulate you and your crew on your accomplishments. It would seem that we have a small scientific superiority over this race, and that we can attempt a li.mited landing." Since there would never be a landing on Alta #, Lesbee simply waited without comment as Browne seemed lost in thought. The officer stirred finally. He #I  still seemed uncertain, "Mr. Lesbee, he said, "as you must understand, this is an extremely dangerous situation for me -- and -- " he added hastily -- "for this entire expedition' What struck Lesbee, as he heard those words, was that Browne was not going to let him back on the ship. But he had to get aboard to accomplish his own purpose. He thought: "I'll have to bring this whole conspiracy out into the open, and apparently make a compromise offer." He drew a deep breath, gazed straight into the eyes of Browne's image on the screen and said with the complete courage of a man for whom there is no turning back: "It seems to me, sir, that we have two alternatives. We can resolve all these personal problems either through a democratic election or by a joint captaincy, you being one of the captains and I being the other." 'T'o any other person who might A have been listening the remark must have seemed a complete non sequitur. Browne, however, understood its relevance. He said with a sneer, "So you're out in the open. Well, let me tell you, Mr. Lesbee, there was never any talk of elections when the Lesbees were in power. And for a very good reason. A spaceship requires a technical aristocracy to command it. As for a joint captaincy, it wouldn't work." Lesbee urged his lie: "If we're going to stay here, we'll need at least two people of equal authority -- one on the ground, one on the ship." "I couldn't trust you on the ship!" said Browne flatly. "Then you be on the ship," Lesbee proposed. "All such practical details can be arranged." The older man must have been almost beside himself with the intensity of his own feelings on this subject. He flashed, "Your family has been out of power for over fifty years! How can you still feel that you have any rights?" Lesbee countered, "How come you still know what I'm talking about?" Browne said, a grinding rage in his tone, "The concept of inherited power was introduced by the first Lesbee. It was never planned." "But here you are," said Lesbee, "yourself a beneficiary of inherited power." Browne said from between clenched teeth: "It's absolutely ridiculous that the Earth government which was in power when the ship left -- and every member of which has been long dead -- should appoint somebody to a command position... and that now his descendant think that command post should be his, and his family's, for all time!" Lesbee was silent, startled by the dark emotions he had uncovered in the man. He felt even more justified, if that were possible, and advanced his next suggestion without a qualm. "Captain, this is a crisis. We should postpone our private struggle. Why don't we bring one of these prisoners aboard so that we can question him by use of films, or play acting? Later, we can discuss your situation and mine." He saw from the look on Browne's face that the reasonableness of the suggestion, and its potentialities, were penetrating. Browne said quickly, "Only you come aboard -- and with one prisoner only. No one else!" Lesbee felt a dizzying thrill as the man responded to his bait. He thought: "It's like an exercise in logic. He'll try to murder me as soon as he gets me alne and is satisfied that he can attack without danger to himself. But that very scheme is what will get me aboard. And I've got to get on the ship to carry out my plan." Browne was frowning. He said in a concerned tone: "Mr. Lesbee, can you think of any reason why we should not bring one of these beings aboard?" Lesbee shook his head. "No reason, sir," he lied. Browne seemed to come to a decision. "Very well. I'll see you shortly, and we can then discuss additional details." Lesbee dared not say another word. He nodded, and broke the connection, shuddering, disturbed, uneasy. "But," he thought, "what else can we do?" H e turned his attention to the part of the floor that had been left open for him. Quickly, he bent down and studied the codes on each of the programming units, as if he were seeking exactly the right ones that had originally been in those slots He found the series he wanted: an intricate system of cross-connected units that had originally been designed to program a remote-control landing system, an advanced Waldo mechanism capable of landing the craft on a planet and taking off again, all directed on the pulse level of human thought. He slid each unit of the series into its sequential position and locked it in. Then, that important task completed, he picked up the remote control attachment for the series and casually put it in his pocket. He returned to the control board and spent several minutes examining the wiring and comparing it with a wall chart. A number of wires had been torn loose. These he now re-connected, and at the same time he managed with a twist of his pliers to short-circuit a key relay .')f the remote control pilot. Lesbee replaced the panel itself loosely. There was no time to connect it properly. And, since he could easily justify his next move, he pulled a cage out of the storeroom. Into this he hoisted Dzing, manacles and all. Before lowering the lid he rigged into the cage a simple resistor that would prevent the Karn from broadcasting on the human thought level. The device was simple merely in that it was not selective. It had an on-off switch which triggered, or stopped, energy flow in the metal walls on the thought level. When the device was installed, Lesbee slipped the tiny remote control for it into his other pocket. Ho did not activate the control. Not yet. IF From the cage Dzing telepathed: is significant that these beings have selected me for this special attention. We might conclude that it is a matter of mathematical accident, or else that they are very observant and so noticed that I was the one who directed activities. Whatever the reason, it would be foolish to turn back now." A bell began to ring. As Lesbee watched, a spot of light appeared high on one of the screens. It moved rapidly toward some crossed lines in the exact center of the screen. Inexorably, then, the Hope of Man, as represented by the light, and the lifeboat moved toward their fateful rendezvous. IV B rowne's instructions were: "Come to Control Room Below!" Lesbee guided his powered dolly with the cage on it out of the big ship's airlock P -- and saw that the man in the control room of the lock was Second Officer Selwyn. Heavy brass for such a routine task. Selwyn waved at him with a twisted smile as Lesbee wheeled his cargo along the silent corridor. He saw no one else on his route. Other personnel had evidently been cleared from this part of the vessel. A little later, grim and determined, he set the cage down in the center of the big room and anchored it magnetically to the floor. As Lesbee entered the captain's office, Browne looked up from one of the two control chairs and stepped down from the rubbersheathed dais to the same level as Lesbee. He came forward, smiling, and held out his hand. He was a big man, as all the Brownes had been, bigger by a head than Lesbee, goodlooking in a clean-cut way. The two men were alone. "I'm glad you were so frank," he said. "I doubt if I could have spoken so bluntly to you without your initiative as an example." But as they shook hands, Lesbee was wary and suspicious. Lesbee thought: "He's trying to recover from the insanity of his reaction. I really blew him wide open," Browne continued in the same hearty tone: "I've made up my mind. An election is out of the question. The ship is swarming with untrained dissident groups, most of which simply want to go back to Earth." Lesbee, who had the same desire, was discreetly silent. Browne said, "You'll be ground captain; I'll be ship captain. Why don't we sit down right now and work out a communique on which we can agree and that I can read over the intercom to the others?" As Lesbee seated himself in the chair beside Browne, he was thinking: "What can be gained from publicly naming me ground captain?" He concluded finally, cynically, that the older man could gain the confidence of John Lesbee -- lull him, lead him on, delude him, destroy him. Surreptitiously Lesbee examined the room. Control Room Below was a large square chamber adjoining the massive central engines. Its control board was a duplicate of the one on the bridge located at the top of the ship. The great vessel could be guided equally from either board, except that pre-emptive power was on the bridge. The officer of the watch was given the right to make Merit decisions in an emergency. Lesbee made a quick mental calculation, and deduced that it was First Officer Miller's watch on the bridge. Miller was a staunch supporter of Browne. The man was probably watching them on one of his screens, ready to come to Browne's aid at a moment's notice. A few minutes later. Lesbee listened thoughtfully as Browne read their joint communique over the intercom, designating him as ground captain. He found himself a little amazed, and considerably dismayed, at the absolute confidence the older man must feel about his own power and position on the ship. It was a big step, naming his chief rival to so high a rank. Browne's next act was equally surprising. While they were still on the viewers, Browne reached over, clapped Lesbee affectionately on the shoulders and said to the watching audience: "As you all know, John is the only direct descendant of the original captain. No one knows exactly what happened half a hundred years ago when my grandfather first took command. But I remember the old man always felt that only he understood how things should be. I doubt if he had any confidence in any young whippersnapper over whom he did not have complete control. I often felt that my father was the victim rather than the beneficiary of my grandfather's temper and feelings of superiority." Browne smiled engagingly. "Anyway, good people, though we can't unbreak the eggs that were broken then, we can certainly start healing the wounds, without -- " his tone was suddenly firm -- "negating the fact that my own training and experience make me the proper commander of the ship itself." He broke off. "Captain Lesbee and I shall now jointly attempt to communicate with the captured intelligent life form from the planet below. You may watch, though we reserve the right to cut you off for good reason." He turned to Lesbee. "What do you think we should do first, John?" Lesbee was in a dilemma. The first large doubt had come to him, the possibility that perhaps the other was sincere. The possibility was especially disturbing because in a few moments a part of his own plan would be revealed. He sighed, and realized that there was no turning back at this stage. He thought: "We'll have to bring the entire madness out into the open, and only then can we begin to consider agreement as real." Aloud, he said in a steady voice, "Why not bring the prisoner out where we can see him?" As the tractor beam lifted Dzing out of the cage, and thus away from the energies that had suppressed his thought waves, the Karn telepathed IF "Have been held in a confined space, the metal of which was energized against communication. I shall now attempt to perceive and evalute the condition and performance of this ship -- " At that point, Browne reached over and clicked off the intercom. Having shut off the audience, he turned accusingly to Lesbee, and said, "Explain your failure to inform me that these beings communicated by telepathy." The tone of his voice was threatening. There was a hint of angry color in his face. It was the moment of discovery, L esbee hesitated, and then simply pointed out how precarious their relationship had been. He finished frankly, "I thought by keeping it a secret I might be able to stay alive a little longer, which was certainly not what you intended when you sent me out as an expendable." Browne snapped, 'But how did you hope to utilize? -- " He stopped. "Never mind," he muttered. Dzing was telepathing again: "In many ways this is mechanically a very advanced type ship. Atomic energy drives are correctly installed. The automatic machinery performs magnificently. There is massive energy screen equipment, and they can put out a tractor beam to match anything we have that's mobile. But there is a wrongness in the energy flows of this ship, which I lack the experience to interpret. Let me furnish you some data... The data consisted of variable wave measurements, evidently -- so Lesbee deduced -- the wavelengths of the energy flows involved in the "wrongness." He said in alarm at that point, "Better drop him into the cage while yye analyze what he could be talking about." Browne did so -- as Dzing telepathed: "If what you suggest is true, then these beings are completely at our mercy -- " Cur off! Browne was turning on the intercom. "Sorry I had to cut you good people off," he said. "You'll be interested to know that we have managed to tune in on the thought pulses of the prisoner and have intercepted his calls to someone on the planet below. This gives us an advantage." He turned to Lesbee. "Don't you agree?" Browne visibly showed no anxiety, whereas Dzing's final statement flabbergasted Lesbee. "... completely at our mercy..." surely meant exactly that. He was staggered that Browne could have missed the momentous meaning. Browne addressed him enthusiastically, "Tm excited by this telepathy! It's a marvelous short-cut to communication, if we could build up our own thought pulses. Maybe we could use the principle of the remote-control landing device which, as you know, can project human thoughts on a simple, gross level, where ordinary energies get confused by the intense field needed for the landing." What interested Lesbee in the suggestion was that he had in his tions at one end of the room. The pocket a remote control for precameraman and Third Officer Mincisely such mechanically produced del -- who had come in with him thought pulses. Unfortunately, the  -- strapped themselves into two adcontrol was for the lifeboat. It probjoining chairs attached to the proably would be advisable to tune the jector, and were evidently ready, control to the ship landing system also It was a problem he had lhile this was going on, Lesthought of earlier, and now Browne '  bee called various technihad opened the way for an easy cal personnel. Only one technician solution. protested. "But, John," he said, "that He held his voice steady as he way we have a double control -- said, "Captain, let me program those with the lifeboat control having landing analogs while you prepare pre-emption over the ship. That's the film communication project. very unusual." That way we can be ready for him It was unusual. But it was the either way." lifeboat control that was in his Browne seemed to be completely pocket where he could reach it trusting, for he agreed at once. quickly; and so he said adamantly, At Browne's direction, a film "Do you want to talk to Captain projector was wheeled in. It was Browne? Do you want his okay?" swiftly mounted on solid connec"No, no." The technician's doubts IF seemed to subside. "I heard you being named joint captain. You're the boss. It shall be done." Lesbee put down the closed-circuit phone into which he had been talking, and turned. It was then he saw that the film was ready to roll, and that Browne had his fingers on the controls of the tractor beam. The older man stared at him questioningly. "Shall I go ahead?" he asked. At this penultimate moment, Lesbee had a qualm. Almost immediately he realized that the only alternative to what Browne planned was that he reveal his own secret knowledge. He hesitated, torn by doubts. Then: "Will you turn that off?" He indicated the intercom. Browne said to the audience, "We'll bring you in again on this in a minute, good people." He broke the connection and gazed questioningly at Lesbee. Whereupon Lesbee said in a low voice, "Captain, I should inform you that I brought the Karn aboard in the hope of using him against you." "Well, that is a frank and open admission," the officer replied very softly. "I mention this," said Lesbee, "because if you had similar ulterior motives, we should clear the air completely before proceeding with this attempt at communication." A blossom of color spread from Browne's neck over his face. At last he said slowly, "I don't know how I can convince you, but I had no schemes." Lesbcc gazed at Browne's open countenance, and suddenly he realized that the officer was sincere, Browne had accepted the compromise. The solution of a joint captaincy was agreeable to him. Sitting there, Lcsbee experienced an enormous joy. Seconds went by before he realized what underlay the intense pleasurable excitement. It was simply the discovery that -- communication worked. You could tell your truth and get a hearing... if it made sense. It seemed to him that his truth made a lot of sense. He was offering Browne peace aboard the ship. Peace at a price, of course; but still peace. And in this severe emergency Browne recognized the entire validity of the solution. So it was now evident to Lesbee. Without further hesitation he told Browne that the creatures who had boarded the lifeboat, were robots -- not alive at all. B rowne was nodding thoughtfully, Finally he said: "But I don't see how this could be utilized to take over the ship." Lesbee said patiently, "As you know, sir, the remote landing control system includes five principal ideas which are projected very forcibly on the thought level. Three of these are for guidance -- up, down and sideways. Intense magnetic fields, any one of which could partially jam a complex robot's thinking processes. The fourth and fifth are instructions to blast either up or down. The force of the blast depends on how far the control is turned on. Since the energy used ia overwhelming those simple commands would take pre-emption over the robot. When that first one came aboard the lifeboat, I had a scan receiver -- nondetectable -- on him. This registered two power sources, one pointing forward, one backward, from the chest level. That's why I had him on his back when I brought him in here. But the fact is I could have had him tilted and pointing at a target, and activated either control four or five, thus destroying whatever was in the path of the resulting blast. Naturally, I took all possible precautions to make sure that this did not happen until you had indicated what you intended to do. One of these precautions would enable us to catch this creature's thoughts without -- " As he was speaking, he eagerly put his hand into his pocket, intending to show the older man the tiny on-off control device by which -- when it was off -- they would be able to read Dzing's thoughts without removing him from the cage. He stopped short in his explanation, because an ugly expression had come suddenly into Browne's face. The big man glanced at Third Officer Mindel. "Well, Dan," he said, "do you think that's it?" Lesbee noticed with shock that Mindel had on sound amplifying earphones. He must have overheard every word that Browne and he had spoken to each other. Mindel nodded. "Yes, Captain," he said. "I very definitely think he IF has now told us what we wanted to find out." Lesbee grew aware that Browne had released himself from his acceleration safety belt and was stepping away from his seat. The officer turned and, standing very straight, said in a formal tone: "Technician Lesbee, we have heard your admission of gross dereliction of duty, conspiracy to overthrow the lawful government of this ship, scheme to utilize alien creatures to destroy human beings, and confession of other unspeakable crimes. In this extremely dangerous situation, summary execution without formal trial is justified. I therefore sentence you to death and order Third Officer Dan Mindel to -- " He faltered, and came to a stop. V T wo things had been happening as he talked, Lesbee squeezed the "off" switch of the cage control, an entirely automatic gesture, convulsive, a spasmodic movement, result of his dismay. It was a mindless gesture. So far as he knew consciously, freeing Dzing's thoughts had no useful possibility for him. His only real hope -- as he realized almost immediately -- was to get his other hand into his remaining coat pocket and with it manipulate the remote-control landing device, the secret of which he had so naively revealed to Browne. The second thing that happened was that Dzing, released from mental control, telepathed: "Free again -- and this time of course permanently! I have just now activated by remote control the relays that will in a few moments start the engines of this ship, and I have naturally re-set the mechanism for controlling the rate of acceleration -- " His thoughts must have impinged progressively on Browne, for it was at that point that the officer paused uncertainly. Dzing continued: "I verified your analysis. This vessel does not have the internal energy flows of an interstellar ship. These two-legged beings have therefore failed to achieve the Light Speed Effect which alone makes possible trans-light velocities. I suspect they have taken many generations to make this journey, are far indeed for their home base, and Fm sure I can capture them all." Lesbee reached over, tripped on the intercom and yelled at the screen: "All stations prepare for emergency acceleration! Grab anything!" To Browne he shouted: "Get to your seat -- quick!' His actions were automatic responses to danger. Only after the words were spoken did it occur to him that he had no interest in the survival of Captain Browne. And that in fact the only reason the man was in danger was because he had stepped away from his safety belt, so that Mindel's blaster would kill Lesbee without damaging Browne. Browne evidently understood his danger. He started toward the control chair from which he had released himself only moments before. His reaching hands were still a foot or more from it when the impact of Acceleration One stopped him. He stood there trembling like a man who had struck an invisible but palpable wall. The next instant Acceleration Two caught him and thrust him on his back to the floor. He began to slide toward the rear of the room, faster and faster, and because he was quick and understanding he pressed the palms of his hands and his rubber shoes hard against the floor and so tried to slow the movement of his body. Lesbee was picturing other people elsewhere in the ship desperately trying to save themselves. He groaned, for the commander's failure was probably being duplicated everywhere. Even as he had that thought. Acceleration Three caught Browne. Like a rock propelled by a catapult he shot toward the rear wall. It was cushioned to protect human beings, and so it reacted like rubber, bouncing him a little. But the stuff had only momentary resilience. Acceleration Four pinned Browne halfway into the cushioned wall. From its imprisoning depths, he managed a strangled yell. "Lesbee, put a tractor beam on me! Save me! Pll make it up to you. I -- Acceleration Five choked off the words. The man's appeal brought momentary wonder to Lesbee. He was amazed that Browne hoped for mercy... , after what had happened, Browne's anguished words did produce one effect in him. They reminded him that there was something he must do. He forced his hand and his arm to the control board and focussed a tractor beam that firmly captured Third Officer Mindel and the cameraman. His intense effort was barely in time. Acceleration followed acceleration, making movement impossible. The time between each surge of increased speed grew longer. The slow minutes lengthened into what seemed an hour, then many hours. Lesbee was held in his chair as if he were gripped by hands of steel. His eyes felt glassy; his body had long since lost all feeling. He noticed something. The rate of acceleration was different from what the original Tellier had prescribed long ago. The actual increase in forward pressure each time was less. He realized something else. For a long time, no thoughts had come from the Karn. S uddenly, he felt an odd shift in speed, A physical sensation of slight, very slight, angular movement accompanied the maneuver. Slowly, the metal-like bands let go of his body. The numb feeling was replaced by the pricking as of thousands of tiny needles. Instead of muscle-compressing acceleration there was only a steady pressure. It was the pressure that he had in the past equated with gravity. Lesbee stirred hopefully, and when he felt himself move, realized what had happened. The artificial gravity had been shut off. Simultaneously, the ship had made a half turn within its outer shell. The drive IF power was now coming from below, a constant one gravity thrust. At this late, late moment, ha plunged his hand into the pocket which held the remote control for the pilotless landing mechanism -- and activated it. 'That ought to turn on his thoughts," he told himself savagely. But if Dzing was telepathing to his masters, it was no longer on the human thought level. So Lesbee concluded unhappily. The ether was silent. He now grew aware of something more. The ship smelled different: better, cleaner, purer. Lesbee's gaze snapped over to the speed dials on the control board. The figures registering there were unbelievable. They indicated that the spaceship was traveling at a solid fraction of the speed of light. Lesbee stared at the numbers incredulously. "We didn't have time!" he thought. "How could we go so fast so quickly -- in hours only to near the speed of light!" Sitting there, breathing hard, fighting to recover from the effects of that prolonged speed-up, he felt the fantastic reality of the universe. During all this slow century of flight through space, the Hope of Man had had the potential for this vastly greater velocity. He visualized the acceleration series so expertly programmed by Dzing as having achieved a shift to a new state of matter in motion. The "light speed effect," the Karn robot had called it. "And Tellier missed it," he thought. All those experiments the physicist had performed so painstakingly, and left a record of, had missed the great discovery. Missed it! And so a shipload of human beings had wandered for generations through the black deeps of interstellar space. A cross the room Browne was climbing groggily to his feet. He muttered, "... Better get back to... control chair." He had taken only a few uncertain steps when a realization seemed to strike him. He looked up then, and stared wildly at Lesbee. "Oh!" he said. The sound came from the gut level, a gasp of horrified understanding. As he slapped a complex of tractor beams on Browne, Lesbee said, "That's right, you're looking at your enemy. Better start talking. We haven't much time." Browne was pale now. But his mouth had been left free and so he was able to say huskily, "I did what any lawful government does in an emergency. I dealt with treason summarily, taking time only to find out what it consisted of." Lesbee had had another thought, this time about Miller on the bridge. Hastily, he swung Browne over in front of him. "Hand me your blaster," he said. "Stock first." He freed the other's arm, so that he could reach into the holster and take it out. Lesbee felt a lot better when he had the weapon. But still another idea had come to him. He said harshly, "I want to lift you over to the cage, and I don't want First Officer Miller to interfer. Get that, Mister Miller!" There was no answer from the screen. Browne said uneasily, "Why over to the cage?" Lesbee did not answer right away. Silently he manipulated the tractor beam control until Browne was in position. Having gotten him there, Lesbee hesitated. What bothered him was, why had the Karn's thought impulses ceased? He had an awful feeling that something was very wrong indeed. He gulped, and said, "Raise the lid!" Again, he freed Browne's arm. The big man reached over gingerly, unfastened the catch, and then drew back and glanced questioningly at Lesbee. "Look inside!" Lesbee commanded. Browne said scathingly, "You don't think for one second that -- " He stopped, for he was peering into the cage. He uttered a cry: "He's gone!" VI L esbee discussed the disappearance with Browne. It was an abrupt decision on his part to do so. The question of where Dzing might have got to was not omething he should merely turn over in his own head. He began by pointing at the dials from which the immense speed of the ship could be computed, and then, when that meaning was absorbed by the older man, said simply, "What happened? Where did he go? And how could we speed up to just under # miles a second in so short a time?" He had lowered the big man to the floor, and now he took some of the tension from the tractor beam but did not release the power. Browne stood in apparent deep thought. Finally, he nodded. "All right," he said, "I know what happened." "Tell me." Browne changed the subject, said in a deliberate tone, "What are you going to do with me?" Lesbee stared at him for a moment unbelievingly. "You're going to withhold this information?" he demanded. Browne spread his hands. "What else can I do? Till I know my fate, I have nothing to lose." Lesbee suppressed a strong impulse to rush over and strike his pri.soner. He said finally, "In your judgment is this delay dangerous?" Browne was silent, but a bead of sweat trickled down his cheek. " have nothing to lose," he repeated. The expression in Lesbee's face must have alarmed him, for he went on quickly, "Look, there's no need for you to conspire any more. What you really want is to go home, isn't it? Don't you see, with this new method of acceleration, we can make it to Earth in a few months! He stopped. He seemed momentarily uncertain. Lesbee snapped angrily, "Who are you trying to fool? Months! We're a dozen light years in actual distance IF from Earth. You mean years, not months." Browne hesitated then: "All right, a few years. But at least not a lifetime. So if you'll promise not to scheme against me further. I'll promise -- " "Youll promise!" Lesbee spoke savagely. He had been taken aback by Browne's instant attempt at blackmail. But the momentary sense of defeat was gone. He knew with a stubborn rage that he would stand for no nonsense. He said in an uncompromising voice, "Mister Browne, twenty seconds after I stop speaking, you start talking. If you don't, I'll batter you against these walls. I mean it!" Browne was pale. "Are you going to kill me? That's all I want to know. Look -- " his tone was urgent -- "we don't have to fight any more. We can go home. Don't you sec? The long madness is just about over. Nobody has to die." Lesbee hesitated. What the big man said was at least partly true. There was an attempt here to make twelve years sound like twelve days, or at most twelve weeks. But the fact was, it was a short period compared to the century-long journey which, at one time, had been the only possibility. H e thought: "Am I going to kill him?" It was hard to believe that he would, under the circumstances. All right. If not death, then what? He sat there uncertain. The vital seconds went by, and he could see no solution. He thought finaUy, in desperation: "Fll have to give in for the moment. Even a minute thinking about this is absolutely crazy." He said aloud in utter frustration, "I'll promise you this. If you can figure out how I can feci safe in a ship commanded by you I'll give your plan consideration. And now, mister, start talking." Browne nodded. "I accept that promise," he said, "What we've run into here is the Lorenz-Fitzgerald Contraction Theory. Only it's not a theory any more. We're living the reality of it." Lesbee argued, "But it only took us a few hours to get to the speed of light." Browne said, "As we approach light speed, space foreshortens and time compresses. What seemed like a few hours would be days in normal time and space." What Browne explained then was different rather than difficult. Lesbee had to blink his mind to shut out the glare of his old ideas and habits of thought, so that the more subtle shades of super-speed phenomena could shine through into his awareness. The time compression -- as Browne explained it -- was gradational. The rapid initial series of accelerations were obviously designed to pin down the personnel of the ship. Subsequent increments would be according to what was necessary to attain the ultra-speed finally achieved. Since the drive was still on, it was clear that some resistance was being encountered, perhaps from the fabric of space itself. It was no time to discuss technical details. Lesbee accepted the remarkable reality and said quickly, "Yes, but where is Dzing?" "My guess," said Browne, "is that he did not come along." "How do you mean?" "The space-time foreshortening did not affect him." "But -- " Lesbee began blankly. "Look," said Browne harshly, "don't ask me how he did it. My picture is, he stayed in the cage till after the acceleration stopped. Then, in a leisurely fashion, he released himself from the electrically locked manacles, climbed out, and went off to some other part of the ship. He wouldn't have to hurry since by this time he was operating at a rate of, say, five hundred times faster than our living pace." Lesbee said, "But that means he's been out there for hours -- his time. What's he been up to?" Browne admitted that he had no answer for that. "But you can see," he pointed out anxiously, "that I meant what I said about going back to Earth. We have no business in this part of space. These beings are far ahead of us scientifically." His purpose was obviously to persuade. Lesbee thought: "He's back to our fight. That's more important to him than any damage the real enemy is causing." A vague recollection came of the things he had read about the struggle for power throughout Earth history. How men intrigued for supremacy while vast hordes of the invader battered down the gates. Browne was a true spiritual descendant of all those mad people. Slowly, Lesbee turned and faced the big board. What was baffling to him was, what could you do against a being who moved five hundred times as fast as you did? H e had a sudden sense of awe, a picture... At any given instant Dzing was a blur. A spot of light. A movement so rapid that, even as the gaze lighted on him, he was gone to the other end of the ship -- and back. Yet Lesbee knew it took time to traverse the great ship from end to end. Twenty, even twenty-five minutes, was normal walking time for a human being going along the corridor known as Center A. It would take the Karn a full six seconds there and back. In its way that was a significant span of time, but after Lesbee had considered it for a moment he felt appalled. What could they do against a creature who had so great a time differential in his favor? From behind him, Browne said, "Why don't you use against him that remote landing control system that you set up with my permission?" Lesbee confessed: "I did that, as soon as the acceleration ceased. But he must have been -- back -- in the faster time by then." "That wouldn't make any difference," said Browne. "Eh!" Lesbee was startled. Browne parted his lips evidently intending to explain, and then he IF closed them again. Finally he said, "Make sure the intercom is off." Lesbee did so. But he was realizing that Browne was up to something again. He said, and there was rage in his lone, "I don't get it, and you do. Is that right." "Yes," said Browne. He spoke deliberately, but he was visibly suppressing excitement. "I know how to defeat this creature. That puts me in a bargaining position." Lesbee's eyes were narrowed to slits. "Damn you, no bargain. Tell me, or else!" Browne said, "I'm not really trying to be difficult. You either have to kill me, or come to some agreement. I want to know what that agreement is, because of course I'll do it." Lesbee said, "I think we ought to have an election." "I agree!" Browne spoke instantly. "You set it up." He broke off. "And now release me from these tractors and I'll show you the neatest spacetime trick you've ever seen, and that'll be the end of Dzing." Lesbee gazed at the man's face, saw there the same openness of countenance, the same h mk honest that had preceded the execution order, and he thought, "What can he do?" He considered many possibilities, and thought finally, desperately: "He's got the advantage over me of superior knowledge -- the most undefeatable weapon in the world. The only thing I can really hope to use against it in the final issue is my knowledge of a multitude of technician-level details." But -- what could Browne do against Lesbee? He said unhappily to the other, "Bcfo.re I free you, I want to lift you over to Mindel. When I do, you get his blaster for me." "Sure," said Browne casually. A few moments later he handed Mindel's gun over to Lesbee. So that wasn't it. Lesbee thought: "There's Miller on the bridge -- can it be that Miller flashed him a ready signal when my back was turned to the board?" Perhaps, like Browne, Miller had been temporarily incapacitated during the period of acceleration. It was vital that he find out Miller's present capability. L esbee tripped the intercom between the two boards. The rugged, lined face of the first officer showed large on the screen. Lesbee could see the outlines of the bridge behind the man and, beyond, the starry blackness of space. Lesbee said courteously, "Mr. Miller, how did you make out during the acceleration?" "It caught me by surprise, Captain. I really got a battering. I think I was out for a while. But I'm all right now." "Good," said Lesbee. "As you probably heard. Captain Brownu and I have come to an agreement, and we are now going to destroy the creature that is loose on tho ship. Stand by!" Cynically, he broke the connection. Miller was there all right, waiting. But the question was still, what could Miller do? The answer of course was that Miller could preempt. And -- Lesbee asked himself -- what could that do? Abruptly, it seemed to him, he had the answer. It was the technician's answer that he had been mentally straining for. He now understood Browne's plan. They were waiting for Lesbee to let down his guard for a moment. Then Miller would pre-empt, cut off the tractor beam from Browne and seize Lesbee with it. For the two officers it was vital that Lesbee not have time to fire the blaster at Browne. Lesbee thought: 'Tt's the only thing they can be worried about. The truth is, there's nothing else to stop them." The solution was, Lesbee realized with a savage glee, to let the two men achieve their desire. But first -- 'Mr. Browne," he said quietly, "T think you should give your information If I agree that it is indeed the correct solution, I shall release you and we shall have an election. You and I will stay right here till the election is over." Browne said, 'T accept your promise. The speed of light is a constant, and does not change in relation to moving objects. That would also apply to electromagnetic fields." Lesbee said, Then Dzing was affected by the remote-control device I turned on." "Instantly," said Browne. "Ho never got a chance to do anything. How much power did you use?" "Only first stage," said Lesbee. "But the machine-driven thought pulses in that would interfere with just about every magnetic field in his body. He couldn't do another coherent thing." Browne said in a hushed tone, "It's got to be. He'll be out of control in one of the corridors, completely at our mercy." He grinned. 'T told you I knew how to defeat him -- because, of course, he was already defeated." Lesbee considered that for a long moment, eyes narrowed. He realized that he accepted the explanation, but that he had preparations to make, and quickly -- before Browne got suspicious of his delay. He turned to the board and switched on the intercom. "People," he said, "strap yourselves in again. Help those who were injured to do the same. We may have another emergency. You have several minutes, I think, but don't waste any of them." He cut off the intercom, and he activated the closed-circuit intercom of the technical stations. He said urgently, "Special instruction to Technical personnel. Report anything unusual, particularly if strange thought forms are going through your mind." He had an answer to tht within moments after he finished speaking. A man's twangy voice came over: "I keep thinking I'm somebody named Dzing, and I'm trying to report to my owners. Boy, am I incoherent!" "Where is this?" "D -- # -- # " IF Lesbee punched the buttons that gave them a TV view of that particular ship location. Almost immediately he spotted a shimmer near the floor. After a moment's survey he ordered a heavy-duty mobile blaster brought to the corridor. By the time its colossal energies ceased, Dzing was only a darkened area on the flat surface. Ahile these events were pro  gressing, Lesbee had kept one eye on Browne and Mindel's blaster firmly gripped in his left hand. Now he said, "Well, sir, you certainly did what you promised. Wait a moment while T put this gun away, and then I'll carry out my part of the bargain." He started to do so, then, out of pitv, paused. He had been thinking in the back of his mind about what Browne had said earlier: that the trip to Earth might only take a few months. The officer had backed away from that statement, but it had been bothering Lesbee ever since. If it were true, then it was indeed a fact that nobody need die! He said quickly, "What was your reason for saying that the journey home would only take -- well -- less than a year?" "It's the tremendous time compression," Browne explained eagerly. "The distance as you pointed out is over # light-years. But with a time ratio of #, #, or # to one, we'll make it in less than a month. When I first started to say that, I could see that the figures were incomprehensible to you in your tense mood. In fact, I could scarcely believe them myself." Lesbee said, staggered, "We can get back to Earth in a couple of weeks -- my God!" He broke off, said urgently, "Look, I accept you as commander. We don't need an election. The status quo is good enough for any short period of time. Do you agree?" "Of course," said Browne. "That's the point I've been trying to make." As he spoke, his face was utterly guileless. Lesbee gazed at that mask of innocence, and he thought hopeless ly: "What's wrong? Why isn't he really agreeing? Is it because he doesn't want to lose his command so quickly?" Sitting there, unhappily fighting for the other's life, he tried to place himself mentally in the position of the commander of a vessel, tried to look at the prospect of a return to view. It was hard to picture such i reality. But presently it seemed to him that he understood. He said gently, feeling his way, "It would be kind of a shame to return without having made a successful landing anywhere. With thii new speed, we could visit a dozen sun systems, and still get home in a year." The look that came into Browne's face for a fleeting moment told Lesbee that he had penetrated to the thought in the man's mind. The next instant, Browne was shaking his head vigorously. "This is no time for side excursions," ho said. "We'll leave explorations of new star systems to future expeditions. The people of this ship have served their term. We go straight home," Browne's face was now completely relaxed. His blue eyes shone with truth and sincerity. There was nothing further that Lesbee could say. The gulf between Browne and himself could not be bridged. The commander had to kill hia rival, so that he might finally return to Earth and report that the mission of the Hope of Man was accomplished. I n the most deliberate fashion Lesbee shoved the blaster into the inner pocket of his coat. Then, as if he were being careful, he used the tractor beam to push Browne about four feet away. There he set him down, released him from the beam, and -- with the same deliberateness -- drew his hand away from the tractor controls. Thus he made himself completely defenseless. It was the moment of vulnerability. Browne leaped at him, yelling: 'Miller -- pre-emptl" First Officer Miller obeyed the command of his captain. What happened then, only Lesbee, the technician with a thousand bits of detailed knowledge, expected. For years it had been observed that when Control Room Below took over from Bridge, the ship speeded up slightly. And when Bridge took over from Control Room Below, the ship slowed instantly by the same amount -- in each instance, something less than half a mile an hour. The two boards were not completely synchronized. The technicians often joked about it, and Lesbee had once read an obscure technical explanation for the discrepancy. It had to do with the impossibility of ever getting two metals refined to the same precision of internal structure. It was the age-old story of, no two objects in the universe are alike. But in times past, the differential had meant nothing. It was a technical curiosity, an interesting phenomenon of the science of metallurgy, a practical problem that caused machinists to curse good-naturedly when technicians like Lesbee required them to make a replacement part. Unfortunately for Browne, the ship was now traveling near the speed of light. His strong hands, reaching towards Lesbee's slighter body, were actually touching the latter's arm when the momentary deceleration occured as Bridge took over. The sudden slow-down was at a much faster rate than even Lesbee expected. The resistance of space to the forward movement of the ship must be using up more engine power than he had realized; it was taking a lot of thrust to maintain a one gravity acceleration. The great vessel slowed about # miles per hour in the space of a second. IF Lesbee took the blow of that deceleration partly against his back, partly against one side -- for he had half-turned to defend himself from the bigger man's attack. Browne, who had nothing to grab on to, was flung forward at the full # miles per hour. He struck the control board with an audible thud, stuck to it as if he were glued there; and then, when the adjustment was over -- when the Hope of Man was again speeding along at one gravity -- his body slid down the face of the board, and crumpled into a twisted position on the rubberized dais. His uniform was discolored. As Lesbee watched, blood seeped through and dripped to the floor. # C A re you going to hold an election?" Tellier asked. The big ship had turned back under Lesbee's command, and had picked up his friends. The lifeboat itself, with the remaining Karn still aboard, was put into an orbit around The two young men were sitting now in the Captain's cabin. After the question was asked, Lesbee leaned back in his chair, and closed his eyes. He didn't need to examine his total resistance to the suggestion. He had already savored the feeling that command brought. Almost from the moment of Browne's death, he had observed himself having the same thoughts that Browne had voiced -- among many others, the reasons why elections were not advisable aboard a spaceship. He waited now while Eleesa, one of his three wives -- she being the younger of the two young widows of Browne -- poured wine for them, and went softly out. Then he laughed grimly. "My good friend," he said, "we're all lucky that time is so compressed at the speed of light. At #-timea compression, any further exploration we do will require only a few months, or years at most. And so I don't think we can afford to take the chance of defeating at an election the only person who understands the details of the new acceleration method. Until I decide exactly how much exploration we shall do, I shall keep our speed capabilities a secret. But I did, and do, think one other person should know where I have this information documented. Naturally, I selected First Officer Tellier." "Thank you, sir," the youth said. But he was visibly thoughtful as he sipped his wine. He went on finally, "Captain, I think you'd feel a lot better if you held an election. I'm sure you could win it." Lesbee laughed tolerantly, shook his head. "I'm afraid you don't understand the dynamics of government," he said. "There's no record in history of a person who actually had control, handing it over." He finished with the casual confidence of absolute power. "I'm not going to be presumptuous enough to fight a precedent like that!"     S# IF  Short Story Queer creatures! They fled the lifegiving sun and hid where even tin froze solid! lirt felt the airship going out ot control as he passed over a rock spattered stretch of sand. Automatically he looked for a smooth place to land and steered the bucking ship for it. The jolt of the landing triggered the ejector seat and in a second he was hurtling through the air away from the explosion of the damaged vehicle. Just before he blacked out, he thought -- almost calmly -- "a good hundred and fifty miles from the colony." When he regained consciousness, night was passing and the first of the three suns was peeking over the horizon. Curt lay still for a while, afraid to find out what might be wrong with him. And the rescue ship could take anything from an hour to a week to find him. He moved his head to discover if there might be anything left of his ship; he saw nothing but pieces. "Well," he said aloud, "so much for that." He reached back gingerly and undid the seat straps. Carefufly, IF he sat up and began to ease his weight onto his feet. A sharp twinge of pain in his knee dropped him back the knee but found no broken bones. "Well," he said again, quietly. The colony leaders had had very little to offer in the way of survival. Rule number I : Mark the crash site and your direction of travel. Number #: Get into shade before the combined heat of the three suns boils your blood. Number #: Carry your pistol for protection against liquitl scorpions, and always save the iast pellet for yourself. Curt glanced about nervously at the thoucht of the liquid scorpions  -- the one form of animal life the colonist had found on this mineralrich planet. Liquid scorpions were enormous masses of clear, icllyi'ih liquid that oozed forward across the rock and sand with rernarkahde speed. A liquid scorpion changed shape conshuitly, its mass shooting out legs wherever they were needed. Only the eyes, fixed in a bulge over the center of its mass, and the almost-sclid, curved stinger that arched over its back remained the same. The first landing party had stood transfi.xed while one of the crew was attacked and absorbed before their eyes. Clear, the scorpion had been almost invisible to them until it flowed about the navigator's legs and paralyzed him with the swaying stinger. When his frantic struggles had ceased, the creature flowed over his body and absorbed it. As the party watched, the clearness slowly became a thin, dark red, and the body could no longer be seen. Avengers had poured out of the ship after the giant scorpion, which reared back, tripling its height and halving its width. At the apex, the two protuding eyes bulged at them and the stinger swayed back and forth, reaching out and retreating. Explosive pellets fired into itr flesh were absorbed with a slurping sound. The captain in the end, had knelt and taken careful aim at the right eye, behind which was the only unreddened sector of the mass. Wten the right eye disappeared, the clear area spurted out of the hole and drained over the jelly-like surface. Slowly, silently, the first of the liquid scorpions died. Curt counted the pellets in his belt -- an even hundred. Enough... if he managed to keep out of sight and had good enough aim. He surveyed the surrounding countryside. Farlher along the valley were shaded caves vherc he could find protection once he had marked his course. If he could walk that far. X en came sluggishly awake, feeling the warmth penetrate his mass. The time of heat had come again, the time to search for what would halt the hunger that ached through every inch of him. Slowly, his coldstiffened mass flowed forward from its hiding place in the warmth-holding sand. The heat melted the stiffness out of him and he began to slide across the sand, his alert senses functioning again. Sense of touch led him across rocks and over ridges easily. The touchy sense of vibration waited apprehensively for movement that would shake the ground. And the third sense, the one that could be called only "sense" or "sense of knowing," functioned as always without his understanding. Today, this third sense told Xen, was different from other days. Extra-cautious, Xen oozed over rocky barriers in the direction that his "sense" told him held food. Once he felt a slight tremor, and in terror flooded out over the rock into thin, transparent nothing. He waited several degrees of heat, but no further movement touched the sensitive receivers in his mass. A falling rock, he decided, collecting himself and starting forward again. He slithered down rocky walls, pouring almost like water when the drop was long and drawing together at the bottom. When his feeling of touch warned him of the shade whose coolness might solidify him and leave him helpless in the open, he drew hurriedly away and changed direction. Finally, he reached an open spot that was likely to contain food. His mass ached for something to consume, but he flooded himself thin again and waited, feeling. There was no vibration through the surface, nor did his "sense" tell him of anything other than the possibility of nourishment. Xen hesitated only a degree of heat before bubbling excitedly into the open space. Touch found him something edible almost immediately -- he flowed around and over it, absorbing it hungrily. His mass dissolved it almost immediately and ached for more. He slid thin, reaching out in every direction until contact was made, then absorbing the food instantly and moving on. Curt, lying in meager shade that would be gone in half an hour when the third and largest sun rose, first saw the movement when it was on the rocks. His already frayed nerves gave a frightened leap. He lay perfectly still. Where he had seen the movement on the rocky shelf there was now nothing. The nothing moved forward. Curt shivered. He was certain he was seeing nothing, and yet his eyes were trying to tell him there was movement. When it reached the flat place and flowed swiftly forward, he realized that it was a liquid animal and was suddenly pointedly conscious of the weight of the pistol against his hip. He watched carefully for the eyes and the stinger, but saw none. That frightened him. If he could not find the brain, he had no mark to shoot at. As he watched, the liquid creature flowed against one of the hardy, sun-browned plants and jerked in reaction. Instantly, it flowed over the plant and absorbed it. The Uifoid turned naomentarily a thin brownish green and then cleared again. Curt watched it with narrowed eyes. It was just possible that this creature ate only plant life. The colonists had realized that the liquid scorpions had fed upon something else before they arrived, but no one had been able to discover what that something was. IF X en was in the process of absorbing a plant when the vibration sense alerted him. Terror shot through him and he spread thinly across thirty feet of ground and lay motionless, his "sense" telling him frantically that a Sting was hunting nearby. He lay for many degrees of heat, waiting. Sense of vibration and knowing both told him that the Sting was approaching, but uncertainly, searching. Then both senses reacted startledly to a new danger on the other side. New movement! A new' feeling that his "sense" could not understand. The Sting was approaching at an angle that would inevitably bring it in contact with Xen. Absorption was the penalty for being caught. Xen was resigned to death, for he could not possibly escape the Sting. And now there was this new sensation on the other side of him. Whatever it was, he had no idea; but likely it was as voracious as the Sting. Now the new thing vibrated jerkily around him and stopped between him and the Sting. The vibrations from the eager Sting accelerated rapidly, eagerly, as it flowed over the ground. Then, for no reason except that the new creature had moved slightly, the Sting recoiled. The jerks were plainly recorded through the earth to Xen; and as he felt the heavy jar, his "sense" told him that the danger from the Sting was past. The Sting was dead. Xen drew himself together and considered that. The new thing vibrated jerkily the place from which Xen had first felt it move. It must be solid as the rocks to move so jerkily, Xen thought. The Sting-killer drew itself back under the enormous rock and ceased to move. Curiosity drew Xen forward, fear dragged him back. He spread thin and drew together with uncertainty. At last, he oozed forward carefully until he reached the rock. The Stingkiller was pressed back under the rock, where touch told Xen a tiny amount of the cold-carrying shade remained. Xen puzzled at that. Why should this creature hide from the life-giving suns? He reached out and absorbed a plant thoughtfully. This thing was different from the liquid structures he had always known. If it was solid where they were liquid, perhaps then it was also opposite in its needs. Maybe this Sting-killer needed cold instead of heat. While Xen was considering this difficult thought, the Sting-kDler began to move again. C urt gasped. The shade was gone. The third sun was reaching long rays under the rock to sear his already-burned flesh. He had to find more shade. Movements were very painful. His lips were cracking and his face had blackened. The injured knee had swollen inside the protective suit; it throbbed and ached. Dazedly, he pulled himself to his feet. On the rock beside him, spread an inch thick, was the almost-invisible creature he had been forced to circle in order to stop the liquid scorpion. He wondered tiredly if it was dangerous. It lay completely motionless, just as it had when the liquid scorpion had approached. So it was probably more afraid of him than he was of it. He turned away. There appeared to be shade down the valley -- perhaps a mile, perhaps three. Too much for him, he knew, but he set out, feeling the sun beat cruelly at him, crying out when the pain in his knee forced him to catch his balance against the sun-heated rock. He knew without turning that the liquid creature was following him, stopping when he stopped, starting when he started. When he knew he could go no farther and felt his knee give weakly to his weight, he saw it ooze forward and began to flow over his legs. He tried to reach his pistol, but it seemed so far away. X en, following the Sting-killer curiously, put together all that he had learned. This creature was different from himself. It needed shade. It had killed his enemy, which was possibly also its own enemy. Now it was trying to reach the shade, but its progress grew steadily slower. He considered that progress. The only thing he could liken it to was one of his own kind, caught out in the time of cold, trying to reach the heat-retaining sands, slowly congealing into a solid mass and dying. This, then, was the reverse process. Perhaps the Sting-killer would become liquid after a certain degree of heat. Xen's sense of knowing warned him gently about too much wandering in the open, where countless Stings could be hiding. He drew this interesting creature. The Stingkiller vibrated the ground and lay still suddenly. Xen waited for a "sense" of death but none came. This might be for the new thing a stage similar to that when one of Xen's own kind became unable to move from the cold, but still lived and feared. Caught between his own fear and a very strange sensation that he could not interpret, Xen waited a degree of heat. Then he oozed forward and spread himself over the still shape, until it floated within him. When he flowed over one part, the thing struggled pitiably. Xen drew back startedly and the movement ceased. Carefully, he retraced his course, leaving the part free. This time there was no struggling. Spurred by fear of Stings, Xen began to flow across the land, letting his "Sense" guide him to the coldness. He slithered up slopes, poured over steep drops, always collecting himself in time to catch his burden. He found a place that would stay cold until the next time of heat and halted in front of it, his anxiety evident in the way he spread and collected himself, back and forth. At last he inched forward, feeling the agony of the cold bite into every cell. Bunching himself behind the Sting-killer, he made it flow along him until it broke free and lay upon the shaded rock. Xen drew back as hurriedly as his alreadysluggish mass would allow. He spread thin across the earth and let IF the heat liquefy his body again... It was when the time of cold was only a few degrees away that Xen felt the heavy vibration which nearly made him dissolve with fear. It lasted for a few degrees and then weakened and made only a small tremor. Now many smaller vibrations reached him, like many creatures moving about. The tremors spread out, moving slowly toward the rocky valley. Xen lay still trying to identify the vibrations. They were not those of Stings. As they approached, he recognized them as resembling in great numbers the creature he had put upon the rock. urt imagined he heard voices, an incoherent babble of them. He struggled to sit up, but there was an incredible weight on his chest. "Lie still," a voice said clearly, and his mind echoed, "Still... still... still... He struggled again. "Liquid," ho croaked painfully, "liquid animal... liquid..." The weight was still there. He heard one last voice say, "Poor guy, he must have run into scorpions." Then he was lifted and it seemed as though the lifting would never cease. Xen waited until the small tremor was gone and the great vibration had roared and disappeared. He knew by the sense of emptiness that the Sting-killer had gone back to his own kind. For a moment he felt very alone, though he knew the sand was full of Xens. Slowly, he drew himself together. For the time of cold was but a few degrees away, and he must seek the In Our Next issue An Exciting New Novelette by Keith Laumer by John Brunner IF  Novelette The Thrid were the wisest creatures in space -- they even said so themselvesl I T he real trouble was that Jorgenson saw things as a business man does. But also, and contradictorily, he saw them as right and just, or as wrong and intolerable. As a business man, he should have kept his mind on business and never bothered about Ganti. As a believer in right and wrong, it would have been wiser for him to have stayed off the planet Thriddar altogether. Thriddar was no place for him, anyhow you look at it. On this particular morning it was especially the wrong place for him to be trying to live and do business. IF He woke up thinking of Ganti, and in consequence he was in a bad mood right away. Most humans couldn't take the sort of thing that went on on Thriddar. Most of them wanted to use missile weapons -- which the Thrid did not use -- to change the local social system. Most humans got off Thriddar -- fasti And boiling mad. Jorgenson had stood it longer than most because in spite of their convictions he liked the Thrid. Their minds did do outside loops, and come up with intolerable convictions. But they were intelligent enough. They had steam-power and even steam-driven atmosphere fliers, but they didn't have missile weapons and they did have a social system that humans simply couldn't accept -- even though it applied only to Thrid. The ordinary Thrid, with whom Jorgenson did business, weren't bad people. It was the officials who made him grind his teeth. And though it was his business only to run the trading post of the Rim Stars Trading Corporation, sometimes he got fed up. This morning was especially beyond the limit. There was a new Grand Panjandrum -- the term was Jorgenson's own for the supreme ruler over all the Thrid -- and when Jorgenson finished his breakfast a high Thrid official waited in the trading-post compound. Around him clustered other Thrid, wearing the formal headgear that said they were Witnesses to an official act. Jorgenson went out, scowling, and exchanged the customary ceremonial greetings. Then the high official beamed at him and extracted a scroll from his voluminous garments. Jorgenson saw the glint of gold and was suspicious at once. The words of a current Grand Panjandrum were always written in gold. If they didn't get written in gold they didn't get written at all; but it was too bad if anybody ignored any of them. The high official unrolled the scroll. The Thrid around him, wearing Witness hats, became utterly silent. The high official made a sound equivalent to clearing his throat. The stillness became deathlike. "On this day," intoned the high official, while the Witnesses listened reverently, "on this day did Glen-U the Never-Mistaken, as have been his predecessors throughout the ages; -- on this day did the Never-Mistaken Glen-U speak and say and observe a truth in the presence of the governors and the rulers of the universe." Jorgenson reflected sourly that the governors and the rulers of the universe were whoever happened to be within hearing of the Grand Panjandrum. They were not imposing. They were scared. Everybody is always scared under an absolute ruler, but the Grand Panjandrum was worse than that. He couldn't make a mistake. Whatever he said had to be true, because he said it, and sometimes it had drastic results. But past Grand Panjandrums had spoken highly of the trading post. Jorgenson shouldn't have much to worry about. He waited. He thought of Ganti. He scowled. IF The great and Never-Mistaken Glen-U," intoned the official again, 'in the presence of the governors and the rulers of the universe, did speak and say and observe that it is the desire of the Rim Star Trading Corporation to present to him, the great and never-mistaken Glen-U, all of the present possessions of the said Rim Stars Trading Corporation, and thereafter to remit to him all moneys, goods, and benefactions to and of the said Rim Stars Trading Corporation as they shall be received. The great and Never-Mistaken Glen-U did further speak and say and observe that anyone hindering this loyal and admirable gift must, by the operation of truth, vanish from sight and nevermore be seen face to face by any rational being." The high official rolled up the scroll, while Jorgenson exploded inside. A part of this was reaction as a business man. A part was recognition of all the intolerable things that the Thrid took as a matter of course. If Jorgenson had reacted solely as a business man he'd have swallowed it, departed on the next Rim Stars trading-ship -- which would not have left any trade-goods behind -- and left the Grand Panjandrum to realize what he had lost when no off-planet goods arrived on Thriddar. In time he'd speak and say and observe that he, out of his generosity, gave the loot back. Then the trading could resume. But Jorgenson didn't feel only like a business man this moming. He thought of Ganti, who was a particular case of everything he disliked on Thriddar. It was not wise to be moved by such sympathetic feelings. The Grand Panjandrum could not be mistaken. It was definitely unwise to contradict him. It could even be dangerous. Jorgenson was in a nasty spot. The Witnesses murmured reverently: "We hear the words of the NeverMistaken Glen-U." The high official tucked away the scroll and said blandly: "I will receive the moneys, goods, and benefactions it is the desire of the Rim Stars Trading Corporation to present to the great and NeverMistaken Glen-U." Jorgenson, boiling inside, nevertheless knew what he was doing. He said succinctly: "Like hell you will!" There was an idiom in Thrid speech that had exactly the meaning of the human phrase. Jorgenson used it. The high official looked at him in utter stupefaction. Nobody contradicted the Grand Panjandrum I Nobody! The Thrid had noticed long ago that they were the most intelligent race in the universe. Since that was so, obviously they must have the most perfect government. But no government could bo perfect if its officials made mistakes. So no Thrid official ever made a mistake. In particular the great and Never-Mistaken Glen-U could not conceivably blunder! When he said a thing, it was true! It had to be! He'd said it! And this was the fundamental fact in the culture of the Thrid. "Like hell you'll receive moneys and goods and such!" snapped Jorgenson. "Like hell you will!" The high official literally couldn't believe his ears. "But -- but the great and NeverMistaken Glen-U -- " "Is mistaken!" said Jorgenson bitingly. "He's wrong! The Rim Stars Trading Corporation does not want to give him anything! What he has said is not true!" This was the equivalent of treason, blasphemy and the ultimate of indecorous behavior toward a virgin Pelean princess. "I won't give him anything! I'm not even vanishing from sight! Glen-U is wrong about that, too! Now -- git!" He jerked out his blaster and pulled the trigger. There was an explosive burst of flame from the ground between the official and himself. The official fled. With him fled all the Witnesses, some even losing their headgear in their haste to get away. Jorgenson stamped into the trading-post building. His eyes were stormy and his jaw was set. He snapped orders. The hired Thrid of the trading-post staff had not quite grasped the situation. They couldn't believe it. Automatically, as he commanded the iron doors and shutters of the trading post closed, they obeyed. They saw him turn on the shocker-field so that nobody could cross the compound without getting an electric shock that would discourage him. They began to believe. Then he sent for the trading-post Thrid consultant. On Earth he'd have called for a lawyer. On a hostile world there'd have been a soldier to advise him. On Thrid the specialist to be consulted wasn't exactly a theologian, but he was nearer that than anything else. Jorgenson laid the matter indignantly before him, repeating the exact phrases that said the trading company wanted -- wanted! -- practically to give itself to the Never-Mistaken Glen-U, who was the Grand Panjandrum of Thriddar. He waited to be told that it couldn't have happened; that anyhow it couldn't be intended. But the theologian's Thriddish ears went limp, which amounted to the same thing as a man's face turning pale. He stammered agitatedly that if the Grand Panjandrum said it, it was true. It couldn't be otherwise! If the trading company wanted to give itself to him, there was nothing to be done. It wanted to! The Grand Panjandrum had said so! "He also said," said Jorgenson irritably, "that I'm to vanish and nevermore be seen face to face by any rational being. How does that happen? Do I get speared?" The trading-post theologian quivered. Jorgenson made things much worse. "This," he raged, "this is crazy! The Grand Panjandrum's an ordinary Thrid just like you are! Of course he can make a mistake! There's nobody who can't be wrong!" IF The theologian put up feebly protesting, human-like hands. He begged hysterically to be allowed to go home before Jorgenson vanished, with unknown consequences for any Thrid who might be nearby. When Jorgenson opened a door to kick him out of it, the whole staff of the trading-post plunged after him. They'd been eavesdropping and they fled in pure horror. Jorgenson swore impartially at all of them and turned the shockerfield back on. He plugged in a capacity circuit which would turn on warning sirens if anything like a steam-driven copter passed or hovered over the trading-post. He put blasters in handy positions. The Thrid used only spears, knives and scimitars. Blasters would defend the post against a multitude. As a business man, he'd acted very foolishly. But he'd acted even less sensibly as a human being. He'd gotten fed up with a social system and a -- call it -- theology it wasn't his business to change. True, the Thrid way of life was appalling, and what had happened to Ganti was probably typical. But it wasn't Jorgenson's affair. He'd been unwise to let it disturb him. If the Thrid wanted things this way, it was their privilege. In theory, no Thrid should ever make a mistake, because he belonged to the most intelligent race in the universe. But a local governor was even more intelligent. If an ordinary Thrid challenged a local governor's least and lightest remark -- why -- he must be either a criminal or insane. The local governor decided -- correctly, of course -- which he was. If he was a criminal, he spent the rest of his life in a gang of criminals chained together and doing the most exhausting labor the Thrid could contrive. If he was mad, he was confined for life. T here'd been Ganti, a Thrid of whom Jorgenson had had much hope. He believed that Ganti could learn to run the trading post without human supervision. If he could, the trading company could simply bring trade goods to Thriddar and take away other trade goods. The cost of doing business would be decreased. There could be no human-Thrid friction. Jorgenson had been training Ganti for this work. But the local Thrid governor had spoken and said and observed that G anti's wife wanted to enter his household. He added that Ganti wanted to yield her to him. Jorgenson had fumed -- but not as a business man -- when the transfer took place. But Ganti had been conditioned to believe that when a governor said he wanted to do something, he did. He couldn't quite grasp the contrary idea. But he moped horribly, and Jorgenson talked sardonically to him, and he almost doubted that an official was necessarily right. When his former wife died of grief, his disbelief became positive. And immediately afterward he disappeared. Jorgenson couldn't find out what had become of him. Dour reflection on the happening had put him in the bad mood which had started things, this morning. (# Time passed. He had the tradingpost in a position of defense. He prepared his lunch, and glowered. More time passed. He cooked his dinner, and ate. Afterward he went up on the trading-post roof to smoke and to coddle his anger. He observed the sunset. There was always some haze in the air on Thriddar, and the colorings were very beautiful. He could see the towers of the capital city of the Thrid. He could see a cumbersome but still graceful steam-driven aircraft descend heavily to the field at the city's edge. Later he saw another steam-plane rise slowly but reliably and head away somewhere else. He saw the steam helicopters go skittering above the city's buildings. He fumed because creatures intelligent enough to build steam fliers weren't intelligent enough to see what a racket their government was. Now that the new Grand Panjandrum had moved against him, Jorgenson made an angry, dogged resolution to do something permanent to make matters better. For the Thrid themselves. Here he thought not as a business man only, but as a humanitarian. As both. When a whim of the Grand Panjandrum could ruin a business, something should be done. And when Ganti and countless others had been victims of capricious tyranny. And Jorgenson was slated to vanish from sight and never again be seen... It definitely called for strong measures! He reflected with grim pleasure that the Grand Panjandrum would soon be in the position of a Thrid whom everybody knew was mistaken. With the trading-post denied him and Jorgenson still visible, he'd be notoriously wrong. And he couldn't be, and still be Grand Panjandrum! It would be a nice situation for Glen-U. He'd have to do something about it, and there was nothing he could do. He'd blundered, and it would soon be public knowledge. Jorgenson dozed lightly. Then more heavily. Then more heavily still. The night was not two hours old when the warning sirens made a terrific uproar. The Thrid for miles around heard the wailing, ullulating sound of the sirens that should have awakened Jorgenson. But they didn't wake him. He slept on. IjThen he woke, he knew that he   was cold. His muscles were cramped. Half awake, he tried to move and could not. Then he tried to waken fully, and he couldn't do that either. He stayed in a dream-like, frustrated state which was partly like a nightmare, while very gradually new sensations came to him. He felt a cushioned throbbing against his chest, in the very hard surface on which he lay face down. That surface swayed and rocked slightly. He tried again to move, and realized that his hands and feet were bound. He found that he shivered, and realized that his clothing had been taken from him. He was completely helpless and lying on his stomach in the cargospace of a steam helicopter: now IF he could hear the sound of its machinery. Then he knew what had happened. He'd committed fhe unthinkable crime -- or lunacy -- of declaring the Grand Panjandrum mistaken. So by the operation of truth, which was really an anesthetic gas cloud drifted over the trading post, he had vanished from sight. Now it was evidently to be arranged that he would never again be seen fdee to face by a rational being. The Grand Panjandrum had won the argument. Within a few months a Rim Stars trading ship would land, and Jorgenson would be gone and the trading post confiscated. It would be hopeless to ask questions, and worse than hopeless to try to trade. So the ship would lift off and there'd be no more ships for at least a generation. Then there might -- there might! -- be another. Jorgenson swore fluently and with passion. 'Tt will not be long," said a tranquil voice. Jorgenson changed from humanspeech profanity to Thrid. He directed his words to the unseen creature who'd spoken. That Thrid listened, apparently without emotion. When Jorgenson ran out of breath, the voice said severely: "You declared the great and Never-Mistaken Glen-U mistaken. This could not be. It proved you either a criminal or insane, because no rational creature could believe him mistaken. He declared you insane, and he cannot be wrong. So soon you will arrive where you are to be confined and no rational being will ever see you face to face." Jorgenson switched back to human swearing. Then he blended both languages, using all the applicable words he knew both in human speech and Thrid. He knew a great many. The soft throbbing of the steam-driven rotors went on, and Jorgenson swore both as a business man and a humanitarian. Both were frustrated. Presently the motion of the copter changed. He knew the ship was descending. There were more violent swayings, as if from wind gusts deflected by something large and solid. Jorgenson even heard deepbass rumblings like sea upon a rocky coast. Then there were movements near him, a rope went around his waist, a loading-bay opened and he found himself lifted and lowered through it. H e dangled in midair, a couple of hundred feet above an utterly barren island on which huge ocean swells beat. The downdraft from the copter made him sway wildly, and once it had him spinning dizzily. The horizon was empty. He was being lowered swiftly to the island. And his hands and feet were still securely tied. Then he saw a figure on the island. It was a Thrid. stripped of all clothing like Jorgenson and darkened by the sun. That figure came agilely toward where he was let down. It caught him. It checked his wild swingings, which could have broken bones. The rope slackened. The Thrid laid Jorgenson down. He did not cast off the rope. He seemed to essay to climb it. It was cut at the steam-copter and came tumbling down all over both of them. The Thrid waved his arms wildly and seemed to screech gibberish at the sky. There was an impact nearby, of something dropped. Jorgenson heard the throbbing sound of the copter as it lifted and swept away. Then he felt the bounds about his arms and legs being removed. Then a Thrid voice -- amazingly, a familiar Thrid voice -- said: "This is not good, Jorgenson. Who did you contradict?" The Thrid was Ganti, of whom Jorgenson had once had hopes as a business man, and for whose disaster he had felt indignation as something else. He loosened the last of Jorgenson's bonds and helped him sit up. Jorgenson glared around. The island was roughly one hundred feet by two. It was twisted, curdled yellow stone from one end to the other. There were stone hillocks and a miniature stony peak, and a narrow valley between two patches of higher rock. Huge seas boomed against the windward shore, throwing spray higher than the island's topmost point. There were some places where sand had gathered. There was one spot -- perhaps a square yard of it -- where sand had been made fertile by the droppings of flying things and where two or three starveling plants showed foliage of sorts. That was all, Jorgenson ground his teeth. "Go ahead," said Ganti grimly, "but it may be even worse than you think." He scrambled over the twisted stone of the island. He came back, carrying something. "It isn't worse," he said. "It's only as bad. They did drop food and water for both of us. I wasn't sure they would." H is calmness sobered Jorgenson. As a business man, he was moved to make his situation clear. He told Ganti of the Grand Panjandrum's move to take over the Rim Stars trading post, which was bad business. He told of his own reaction, which was not a business-like one at all. Then he said dourly: "But he's still wrong. No rational being is supposed ever to see me face to face. But you do." "But I'm crazy," said Ganti calmly. "I tried to kill the governor who'd taken my wife. So he said I was crazy and that made it true. So I wasn't put in a chained group of laborers. Somebody might have seen me and thought about it. But, sent here, it's worse for me and I'm probably forgotten by now." He was calm about it. Only a Thrid would have been so calm. But they've had at least hundreds of generations in which to get used to injustice. He accepted it. But Jorgenson frowned. "You've got brains, Ganti. What's the chance of escape?" "None," said Ganti unemotionally. "You'd better get out of the sun. It'll burn you badly. Come along." IF He led the waj over the bare, scorching rocky surface. He turned past a small pinnacle. There was shadow. Jorgenson crawled into it, and found himself in a cave. It was not a natural one. It had been hacked out, morsel by morsel. It was cool inside. It was astonishingly roomy. "How'd this happen?" demanded Jorgenson the business man. "This is a prison," Ganti explained matter-of-factly. "They let me down here and dropped food and water for a week. They went away. I found there'd been another prisoner here before me. His skeleton was in this cave. I reasoned it out. There must have been others before him. When there is a prisoner here, every so often a copter drops food and water. When the prisoner doesn't pick it up, they stop coming. When, presently, they have another prisoner they drop him off, like me, and he finds the skeleton of the previous prisoner, like me, and he dumps it overboard as I did. They'll drop food and water for me until I stop picking it up. And presently they'll do the same thing all over again." Jorgenson glowered. That was his reaction as a person. Then he gestured to the cave around him. There was a pile of dried-out seaweed for sleeping purposes. "And this?" "Somebody dug it out," said Ganti without resentment. "To keep busy. Maybe one prisoner only began it, A later one saw it started and worked on it to keep busy. Then others in their turn. It took a good many lives to make this cave." Jorgenson ground his teeth a seo ond time. "And just because they'd contradicted somebody who couldn't bo wrong! Or because they had a business an official wanted!" "Or a wife," agreed Ganti. "Here! He offered food. Jorgenson ate, scowling. Afterward, near sundown, he went over the island. It was rock, nothing else. There was a pile of small broken stones from the excavation of the cave. There were the few starveling plants. There was the cordage with which Jorgenson had been lowered. There was the parcel containing food and water. Ganti observed that the plastic went to pieces in a week or so, so it couldn't be used for anything. There was nothing to escape with. Nothing to make anything to escape with. Even the dried seaweed bed was not comfortable. Jorgenson slept badly and waked with aching muscles. Ganti assured him unemotionally that he'd get used to it. He did. By the time the copter came to drop food and water again, Jorgenson was physically adjusted to the island. But neither as a business man or as a person could he adjust to hopelessness. He racked his brains for the most preposterous or faintest hope of deliverance. There were times when as a business man he reproached himself for staying on Thriddar after he became indignant with the way the planet was governed. It was very foolish. But much more often he felt such hatred of the manners and customs of the Thrid -- which had put him here -- that it seemed that something must somehow be possible if only so he could take revenge. Ill T he copter came, it dropped food and water, and it went away. It came, dropped food and water, and went away. Once a water-bag burst when dropped. They lost nearly half a week's water supply. Before the copter came again they'd gone two days without drinking. There were other incidents, of course. The dried seaweed they slept on turned to powdery trash. They got more seaweed hauling long kclp-like strands of it ashore from where it clung to the island's submerged rocks. Ganti mentioned that they must do it right after the copter came, so there would be no sign of enterprise to be seen from aloft. The seaweed had long, flexible stems of which no use whatever could be made. When it dried, it became stiff and brittle but without strength. Once Ganti abruptly began to talk of his youth. As if he were examining something he'd never noticed before, he told of the incredible conditioning-education of the young members of his race. They learned that they must never make a mistake. Never! Tt did not matter if they were unskilled or inefficient. It did not matter if they accomplished nothing There was no penalty for anything but making mistakes or differing from officials who could not make mistakes. So Thrid younglings were trained not to think; not to have any opinion about anything; only to repeat what nobody questioned; only to do what they were told by authority. It occurred to Jorgenson that on a planet with such a population, a skeptic could make a great deal of confusion. Then, another time, Jorgenson decided to make use of the weathering cord which had been cut from the copter when he was landed. He cut off a part of it with a sharpedged fragment of stone from the pile some former prisoner on the island had made. He unravelled the twisted fibers. Then he ground fishhooks from shells attached to the island's rocky walls just below water-line. After that they fished. Sometimes they even caught something to eat. But they never fished when the copter was due. Jorgenson found that a fish-fillet, strongly squeezed and wrung like a wet cloth, would yield a drinkable liquid which was not salt and would substitute for water. And this was a reason to make a string bag in which caught fish could be let back into the sea so they were there when wanted but could not escape. They had used it for weeks when he saw Ganti, carrying it to place it where they left it overboard, swinging it idly back and forth as he walked. I f Jorgenson had been only a businessman, it would have had no particular meaning. But he was IF also a person, filled with hatred of the Thrid who had condemned him for life to this small island. He saw the swinging of the fish. It gave him an idea. He did not speak at all during all the rest of that day. He was thinking. The matter needed much thought. Ganti left him alone. But by sunset he'd worked it out. While they watched Thrid's red sun sink below the horizon, Jorgenson said thoughtfully: "There is a way to escape, Ganti." "On what? In what?" demanded Ganti. "In the helicopter that feeds us," said Jorgenson. "It never lands," said Ganti practically. "We can make it land," said Jorgenson. Thrid weren't allowed to make mistakes; he could make it a mistake not to land. "The crew is armed," said Ganti. "There are three of them." "They've only knives and scimitars," said Jorgenson. "They don't count. We can make better weapons than they have." Ganti looked skeptical. Jorgenson explained. He had to demonstrate crudely. The whole idea was novel to Ganti, but the Thrid were smart. Presently he grasped it. He said: "I see the theory. If we can make it work, all right. But how do we make the copter land?" Jorgenson realized that they talked oddly. They spoke with leisurely lack of haste, with the lack of hope normal to prisoners to whom escape is impossible, even when they talk about escape. They could have been discussing a matter that would not affect either of them. But Jorgenson quivered inside. He hoped. "We'll try it," said Ganti detachedly, when he'd explained again. "If it fails, they'll only stop giving us food and water." That, of course, did not seem either to him or Jorgenson a reason to hesitate to try what Jorgenson had planned. It was not at all a direct and forthright scheme. It began with the untwisting of more of the rope that had lowered Jorgenson. It went on with the making of string from that fiber. They made a great deal of string. Then, very clumsily and awkwardly, they wove strips of cloth, a couple of inches wide and five or six long. They made light strong cords extend from the ends of the cloth strips. Then they practiced with these bits of cloth and the broken stones a former prisoner had piled so neatly. The copter came and dropped food and water. When it left, they practiced. When it came again they were not practicing, but when it went away they practiced. They were a naked man and a naked Thrid, left upon a morsel of rock in a boundless sea, rehearsing themselves in an art so long-forgotten that they had to reinvent the finer parts of the technique. They experimented. They tried this. They tried that. When the copter appeared, they showed themselves. They rushed upon the dropped bag containing food and water as if fiercely trying to deny each other a full share. Once they seemed to fight over the dropped bag. The copter hovered to watch. The fight seemed furious and deadly, but inconclusive. When the copter went away Jorgenson and Ganti went briskly back to their practicing. T hey were almost satisfied with their proficiency, now. They had lost some of the small stones, but there were many left. They began to work with seaweed, the kind with long central stems which dried to brittle stiffness. They determined exactly how long they should be allowed to dry. They studied the way in which the flat seaweed foliage must be dried on rounded stone spaces to form seemingly solid surfaces of almost any shape. But they were utterly brittle when they were dry. It was not possible to make them hold any form for more than a day or so, even if sprinkled with cold water to keep them from crumbling to dust. And they practiced with the strip of cloth and the stones. Ganti became more skilful than Jorgenson, but even Jorgenson became an expert. There came a day when the copter dropped the bag of food and Ganti danced with seeming rage and shook his fist at it. The crew-Thrid saw him, but paid no attention. They went away. And Ganti and Jorgenson went to work. They hauled seaweed ashore. It had to dry to some degree before it could hold a form at all. While it dried, they practiced. The leaves were ready before the stems. They spread them on rounded surfaces, many leaves thick. They dried to dark-gray-greenish stuff looking like the crudest possible cardboard without a fraction of cardboard's strength or stiffness. Presently the stems were dry enough to be stiff but not yet entirely brittle. They made a framework, uniting its members with string from the dropped rope. Two days before the copter was due again, they used the cardboardlike but fragile curved sheet of seaweed-leaves to cover the frame. Finished, they had what looked like the fuselage of a landed copter. Thicker but brittle sections of the stems seemed rotor-blades when more seaweed-cardboard was attached. From two hundred feet, the crudities of the object would not show. It would look like a helicopter landed on the island where Jorgenson and Ganti were confined. It would look like a rescue. When the copter arrived, it checked in midair as if it braked. It hung in the air. Its crew stared down. They saw a strange aircraft there. The helicopter whirled and went streaking away toward the horizon. Jorgenson and Ganti immediately attacked their own creation. The framework was brittle; barely able to sustain its own weight. They furiously demolished the whole thing. They hauled its fragments into the cave. They worked furiously to remove every trace of its former presence. Within two hours a fleet of six steam-copters came driving across the sea. They swept over the island. IF They looked. They saw Jorgenson and Ganti -- naked man and naked Thrid -- glaring up at them. They saw nothing else. There was nothing else to see. There was a Thrid official on one of the copters. The matter had been reported to him. A helicopter could only have landed on this island to rescue the prisoners. They were not rescued. There had been no helicopter. The crew of the craft which made the report had made a mistake! Jorgenson arid Ganti gloated together when darkness had fallen. The copter-crew had made a false report. They would face an angry official. Either they'd take back their original report, or stick to it. If they took it back, they'd tried to deceive an official, who could not be wrong. Jorgenson and Ganti gloated over what they'd done to their jailers. IV Vhen a copter came again   a week later, it was not the same flier or the same crew. The bag of food and water was dropped from a different height. The copter hovered until it saw both Jorgenson and Ganti. Then it went away. They set to work again on seaweed hauled from the sea, and leaves smoothed over each other on suitable surfaces of rock. Stems up to four and five inches in diameter to be straightened out and almost dried to seem rotor-shafts, and lesser stems to make a framework. The mockup was tied together with string. They finished it the night before the copter was due again, and they practiced with their bits ot cloth and the stones until the light ended. They practiced again at daybreak, but when the helicopter came across the sea they were nowhere visible. But there was an aircraft aground upon the island. From the air it looked remarkably convincing. The prisoners listened eagerly from the hollowed-out cave. The mockup on the ground was in a miniature valley between sections of taller stone. It could be seen from above, but not well from the side. From one end it could not be seen at all, but from the other it was a remarkable job. It would deceive any eyes not very close indeed. The flying helicopter hovered and hovered, sweeping back and forth. Its crew-members saw no movement anywhere, which was not possible. If there was an aircraft aground, there must be Thrid who had flown it here. They were not to be seen. The prisoners were not to be seen. The situation was impossible. Jorgenson and Ganti waited. The flying jailers could not report what they saw. A previous crew had done that, and when they were proved mistaken or worse, they donned chains to do hard labor so long as they lived. But the Thrid in the copter over the island dared not not-report. Somebody else might sight it, and they'd be condemned for not reporting. They couldn't report it and they couldn't not-report it! Jorgenson grinned when the throbbing of the rotors became louder and louder as the steamhelicopter descended. He and Ganti made ready. The flying vehicle landed. They heard it. Its crew got out, fearful but alert and with weapons handy. One stayed close by the ship, his ears shriveled with terror. The other two, weapons very much to the fore, moved cautiously to examine the aircraft which could not possibly be here. Jorgenson and Ganti, together, scrambled from the hollowed-out cave. Ganti swung his strip of cloth. It had a strong cord attached to each end, and he held the cords so the cloth formed a pocket in which a stone lay. The whole whirled furiously. Ganti released one cord. The stone flew. It struck the Thrid on guard by the machine squarely in the middle of his forehead. Jorgenson's stone arrived the fraction of a second later, before the Thrid started to fall. They moved out, Jorgenson grinning in a most unbusinessman-like manner. They heard the startled exclamation of the other two newcomers as they realized that they saw only a mockup of a landed flier, a thing which crumbled as they touched it. Jorgenson and Ganti swung their sIinTS together. The jailer-Thrid turned just in time to see what was happening to them. It was final. And the copter took off again with Ganti and Jorgenson clothed and with an adequate supply of stones in improvised pockets in their garments. I t was perfectly simple from that time on. They walked into a village of the Thrid, on the mainland. It was the village where Ganti had lived; whose governor had spoken and said and observed that Ganti's wife wished to enter his household and that Ganti wished her to. Ganti marched truculently down its wider street. Astonished eyes turned upon him. Ganti said arrogantly: T am the new governor. Call others to see." The villagers could mot question the statement of an official. Not even the statement that he was an official. So Ganti -- with Jorgenson close behind -- swaggered into the local governor's palace. It wasn't impressive, but merely a leafy, thatched, sprawling complex of small buildings. Ganti led the way into the inmost portion of the palace and found a fat, sleeping Thrid with four villager-Thrid fanning him with huge fans. Ganti shouted, and the fat Thrid sat up, starkly bewildered. "I speak and say and observe," said Ganti coldly, "that I am the new governor and that you are about to die, with no one touching you." The fat Thrid gaped at him. It was incredible. In fact, to a Thrid who had never heard of a missile weapon -- it was impossible. Ganti swung his strip of cloth by the two cords attached to it. It whirled too swiftly to be seen clearly. A stone flew terribly straight. There was an impact. The local governor who had IF spoken and said and observed that Ganti's wife wanted to enter his household was quite dead. said Ganti to his former fellow-villagers, "I am the governor. If any deny it, they will die with no one touching them." And that was that. Ganti grimaced at Jorgenson: "I'll speak and say and observe something useful for you presently, Jorgenson. Right now I'm going to march on foot and talk to the provincial governor. I'll take a train of attendants, so he'll receive me. Then I'll tell him that he's about to die with nobody touching him. He's earned it!" Unquestionably, Ganti was right. j ny Thrid official, to whom it was impossible to be mistaken, would develop eccentric notions. Most humans couldn't stand by and watch. They got off Thriddar as soon as possible. At the moment, Jorgenson couldn't leave the planet, but he didn't want to see what Ganti could and would and by human standards probably ought to do. He camped in the steam-copter, in hiding, until Ganti sent him a message. Then he started up the copter and flew back to the trading post. It was empty. Gutted. Looted. But there was a high official waiting for him in the courtyard. He held a scroll in his hand. It gHnted golden. When Jorgenson regarded him grimly, the high official made a sound equivalent to clearing his throat, and the Witness-hatted Thrid around him became silent. "On this day," intoned the high official, "on this day did Ganti, the Never-Mistaken, as have been his predecessors through the ages; -- on this day did the Never-Mistaken Ganti speak and say and observe a truth in the presence of the governors and the rulers of the universe." Jorgenson listened grimly. The new Grand Panjandrum had made him -- Jorgenson -- a provincial governor. Ganti was grateful. The contents of the trading post would be returned. From this time on the Rim Stars Trading Corporation would prosper as never before. But Jorgenson wasn't a Thrid. He saw things as a businessman does, but also and contradictorily bie saw them as right and just or wrong and intolerable. As a businessman, he saw that everything had worked out admirably. As a believer in right and wrong, it seemed to him that nothing in particular had happened. He'd have done better, he considered, to do what most humans did after understanding what went on on Thriddar, and what seemingly always must go on on Thriddar. Because the Thrid had noticed that they were the most intelligent race in the universe, and therefore must have the most perfect possible government whose officials must inevitably be incapable of making a mistake... When the Rim Stars trading ship came to ground, a month later, Jorgenson went on board and stayed there. He remained on board when the ship left. Thriddar was no place IF  Peatur on a S hyly and silently, there has sidled into our cosmos one of the most extraordinary and potentially influential volumes ever put between covers. It's a heady experience to hold this book in your hands and reflect what the world would be if Newton, Da Vinci or Eratosthenes had had the same privilege. You might say that this is only marvelling, and what's so heady? and you're right. It becomes heady when you realize that in this season of the proliferation of laws, no one has yet passed one proclaiming that there shall be no more Da Vincis -- though most people seem to feel that somehow or other there can be no more giants. They're wrong. And just as this book could have moved the earth 'way back yonder, IF so it can today -- and it is very likely that it will; because it is being distributed all over the world. It's a paperback, and about the only way it could have been promoted less would be if it had never existed. I ran across it last Christmas in a toy catalog. Then when the local elementary school overcrowded itself into split sessions, the school to add a little something to a four-hour school day, and included a science demonstrations course. I bethought me of this book and had the Library order it. As soon as it came in it went straight to my desk for this treatment, so you may pride yourself (if such be your pride) that on your account there is a long and angry waiting list at the Library for it. Some of 'em got angry enough to buy it for themselves, which is a pretty beneficial side effect, at that. Some time ago I wrote for information as to price, ordering address, and permission to reproduce some of the illustrations; but as I said, promotion they ain't got. My letter remains, at this writing, unanswered. Therefore I made the drawings on these pages myself; they are not, then, reproductions, but illustrations of matter in the book. footnote in the bibliography resays they may be obtained from "Place de Fontenoy, Paris #, France. Copies may also be obtained in most countries from The catalog describes it; "Over # science demonstrations and experiments, using everyday materials. with the help of world science education leaders." Now, this is more than just an elementary science handbook. All over the world, in the Far East, in Africa, in Latin America, literacy is rising. With it rises the number of communities with shacks or tents or just the shade of a tree for schools, and somewhat less than nothing at all for materials. Science teaching therefore becomes a matter of real basics, right down to the level of the wedge and the lever, because you can always lay hands on a rock and a stick to demonstrate with. But this has its virtue. Simple materials call for more honest-toGod science (along with h-t-G teaching) than any amount of crackle-finished black boxes full of technology. In addition, the jungle (or desert, or Outback) youngster who learns his science this way is far more likely to relate science to his everyday life than our kids, who can coexist with years of film-strips and closed-circuit TV teaching aids, and remain untouched. Compactly described, this big (#x#") paperback has # closely printed pages with hundreds of excellent illustrations. It has no index, but the contents page is quite comprehensive. The appendices include a booklist, periodicals from all over the world, and a chart of rocks and minerals. Then there are # pages ol iclcrcnce tables, conversions and the like, and even a rule, a protractor. and a # degree and a # degree triangle. Ihe tone and purpose of the book are best demonstrated by drawings. The scale in Fig. I is amazingly sensitive, and can be made as accurate as an expensive care in calibrating it. The small bolt (it happens that one from an Erector set is just right) gives you the finest of fine adjustments. The bearing, a fine needle resting on the edges of two razor blades, is about as frictionless as a bearing can be (but see Fig. #) and the long lever arm makes small movements easy to see. You calibrate it by setting it to the zero point and then hanging weights made of aluminium (sic) from the pointer. "A common gauge of foil," says the book, "weighs # mg. for # sq, cm. of area." Having gotten your gross divisions with these, you proceed to subdivide as much as your patience and your steady hand permit. This scale will readily weigh a single human hair, or. with a tiny foil bucket (you'll have to reset it to zero) almost microscopic beads of liquid. Z ehnder balance (and I wish I knew who and where Mr. Z is so I could shake his hand) will do more than a boy scout knife plus Mr. Clean. If you look carefully at the drawing you will see that the large cork rests only on the points of the two pins. No matter how carefully you look you won't see that they rest on two slips of glass placed on top of the wooden base, because I couldn't figure out how to draw them. The balance beam is a knitting needle. The sensitivity adjustment lies in the amount the pins are pushed through the cork. Now listen to this: # mg. (the weight of a short piece of fine cotton thread) on one arm of the beam will rotate it about # cm. (about ##" -- enough to see easily.) If an experiment yields an almost immeasurably small jet of gas, this balance will detect it. A lighted match below the beam will demonstrate air convection. The beam is an insulated conductor, and therefore can be electrified, showing the slightest trace of static electricity. IF Magnetized, it becomes a dip needle. It is also a galvanometer: a coil of # turns of copper wire, connected to a thermocouple, and held near the beam, will cause the beam to rotate appreciably when the thermocouple is heated with a candle, delivering about .#I volt. Attach a tiny mirror to one end of the beam, and project a beam of light off it to a distant wall, and the balance will detect the current generated when you grasp the thermocouple with your fingers! Fig. # is drawn from various parts of the book. The upright is half of one of those flat brass telescopic curtain rods, screwed to the wooden base. The ring is made of coat-hanger wire with the ends folded back on themselves to make a close sliding fit inside the upright. (This is my own design; the book uses one of those snivvics which clamps on to the light-bulb to hold a lampshade. I was unable to find one locally without the whole lampshade attached.) Note the three segments of asbestos tape on the ring; these keep the dish from cracking along the line of the ring. The alcohol lamp is made of an ink bottle. The tube is half a brass rifle cartridge soldered to a hole in the bottle cap. The inset shows how the other half of the cartridge can make a stopper for the lamp. If no cartridge is available, an adequate tube can be made with tin from a can formed around a dowel and soldered. The dish is the top of an old electric-light bulb, and the book gives most explicit instructions for salvaging great wealth from these little-regarded treasures. A light bulb, variously cut and serviced, will give you a funnel, a flask, a set of ready-made electrodes, and a good many other things. You can cut one by scoring it with a three-cornered file, tieing a string along the score, soaking it with kerosene and setting it afire. When the fire goes out, plunge it into ice water. You may also use a soldering iron, run along the scratch. The sharp edge can be treated by playing a fine gas flame along it. I wish I had space to describe the demonstration gears made of pop-bottle caps, or the optical illusions, or the plant bio experiments, or the astronomy demonstrations, or -- oh, hell, go buy the Everybody had to be useful. If he was totally useless in every respect -- there was still a use! to IF Plan of Man... but he could not remember his crime. Around his neck he wore the iron collar that contained an explosive charge that would destroy him if he tried escape; but what the deed vas that had put it there he could only remember in tantalizing fragments. With his fellow convicted Risk, service of the Plan. Still a prisoner, he traveled aboard the luxurious private subtrain car of The Planner told him that his job was to develop a "jetiess drive' -- a new space propulsion system that would permit the forces of the Plan to expand into the Reefs of Space, the half-mythical bodies that circled the solar system far beyond the orbit of Pluto. of the spaceling, the strange creature from the distant Reefs that lived on energy and itself seemed to have a "jetless drive". Arriving at his destination, Ryeland was astonished to find that he himself was in charge of a whole project under the Plan of Man -- although a convicted Risk, wearing the iron collar, he had authority over high-ranking officers and important research workers. Yet there was something strange about his authority, almost as though he were not so much the conductor of an experimental project as its subject. And there was the chronic, nagging worry of his past always in his mind! For he could not remember the parts of his life that should have been crystal-clear...  IF Vil R yeland's new authority as leader of the Attack Team did nothing to endear him to his colleagues. He didn't care. He had work enough to keep him busy. Oddball Oporto made himself useful. The little man's talent for lightning computing saved Ryeland a good deal of time. Not that Oporto was faster than a computer. He wasn't; but Oporto had a distinct advantage over the binary digital types in that problems didn't have to be encoded and taped, then decoded. Still, in the final analysis there were not too many problems to compute. In fact, that was the big problem: Ryeland could find no handle by which to grasp the question of the jetless drive. But Oporto made himself useful in other ways as well. He had a prying nose for news, for example, which kept Ryeland informed of what was going on in the Team Project. 'Fleemer's got the sulks," he reported one day. "Holed up in his room, doesn't come out." "AH right," said Ryeland absently. "Say, where's my Physical Constants of SteadyState Equations?" "It's indexed under #," Oporto said patiently. "The word is that Fleemer is having an argument with the Machine. Messages are going back and forth, back and forth, all the time." "What?" Ryeland looked up, momentarily diverted from the task of scribbling out a library requisitioa for the book he needed. "Nobody can argue with the Machine!" Oporto shrugged. "I don't know what you'd call it, then." "General Fleemer is filing reports," Ryeland said firmly. He beckoned to Faith, brooding in a corner. The Togetherness girl came eagerly forward, saw the slip, looked glum, shrugged and went off to get the book. "Sure," said Oporto. "Say, have you heard anything from Donna Creery?" Ryeland shook his head. "I hear she's in Port Canaveral." Ryeland snapped: "That's her problem. No doubt the Planner's daughter has plenty of occasions for off-Earth trips." "No doubt," agreed Oporto, "but -- " "But you could mind your business," said Ryeland, closing the discussion. Faith came back with the book. Ryeland verified a couple of figures and turned a sheet of calculations over to Oporto. "Here, solve these for me. It'll give you something to do," he said. He stood up, looking absently around the room. This was his A Section, devoted to the Hoyle Effect. He had a whole sub-Team of workers going here. Still, he thought, it was a waste of time. "No sweat," said Oporto cheerfully, handing back to the completed equations. "Thanks." Ryeland glanced at them, then dumped them on the desk of one of the other workers. There wasn't much to be done but routine; he could leave it to the others now. That was why it was a waste of time. All the prior art was in hand and digested; it was only a matter of checking out the math now. Then he could answer the Machine's questions -- but in fact, he knew, he could pretty well answer them now. Under what conditions could hydrogen growth occur? That was easy. Basic theory gave most of the answer; an analysis of the data from Lescure's expedition in the Cristobal Colon gave a clue to the rest. And what was the possibility of halting or reversing the formation? That was easy too. Humans could have little control over the processes that could build stars. With finite equipment, in finite time, the probability was zero. But it was a measure of the Machine's -- desperation? Was that a word you could apply to the Machine -- a measure of the Machine's, well, urgency that it could even ask such questions as these. Ryeland said uncomfortably: Come on, Oporto. Let's go take a look at the spaceling." A nd that was B Section, and it was going badly indeed. Jetless drive! It was impossible, that was all. If Ryeland hadn't had the maddening spectacle of the spaceling right there before him, he would have sworn that the laws were right. For every action, Newton had stated centuries before, there is an equal and opposite reaction. That law of motion accounted for every movement of every creature on Earth. The cilia of the first swimming paramecium propelled the creature forward by propelling an equal mass of water backward. It was the same with the thrust of a propeller, in water or in air. Rockets thrust forward by reaction, as the mass of the ejected jet's hot molecules went one way, the vessel the rockets drove went another. Action and reaction! It was an equation that was easy to write -- Mass times Acceleration equals Mass-prime times Acceleration-prime -- and it was an equation that was hard to doubt. But it did not happen to be true. The evidence of the dazed little creature from space made a liar out of Newton. The spaceling's trick of floating without visible reaction confounded the greatest genius the world has ever known. The spaceling showed no reaction mass at all. Whatever it was that permitted the spaceling to hover, it (call it 'X") did not: Disturb the currents of the air; affect plumb-bobs hung all about; register on photographic film; discharge a gold-leaf electroscope; disturb a compass; produce a measurable electric, magnetic or electronic field; add to the weight of the cage when the entire structure was supported on a scale; make any audible sound; affect the basal metabolism of the spaceling itself; or produce a discoverable track in a cloud chamber. "X" did, on the other hand, do a few things. It affected the "brain waves" of IP the spaceling; there was a distincIt seemed to have a worrisome effect on certain other mammals. This was noticed by chance when a cat happened to wander into the rocket pit; when the spaceling lifted itself the cat was "spooked", leaping about stiff-legged, fur bristling, eyes aglare. And finally, it worked. Whatever "X" was, it lifted the spaceling with great ease. They even wrapped the spaceling in chains once, more than six hundred pounds of them. And as if amused the spaceling floated with all six hundred pounds for an hour, purring to itself. It was maddening. Still, thought Ryeland, though the comfort was small -- at least the thing seemed healthier. The wounds were healing. The small symbiotic animals that were left seemed to survive. The spaceling showed life and energy. Donna Creery would be pleased. N obody else seemed very pleased with Ryeland, though. General Fleemer stayed in his room, venturing forth only occasionally to make sardonic comments and get in the way. The other high brass of the Team didn't have Fleemer's ready escape, since they had specific tasks; but they made sure to be as unpleasant to Ryeland as they could manage. Only Major Chatterji was affable at all, and that was second nature to him. He came by every hour on the hour for a report. He was very little trouble. If Ryeland was busy, the major waited inconspicuously m the background. If Ryeland was free, the major asked a minimum of questions and then departed. Ryeland was pretty sure that all the information went, first, to the Machine and, second, almost as promptly to General Fleemer; but he could see no reason why he should attempt to interfere with the process. And he could also see no reason to believe he would be successful if ho tried. He kept busy. Oporto said one afternoon: "Say, it's definite about your girl friend. Ryeland blinked up from his papers. "Who?" He was genuinely confused for a moment; then ho remembered Oporto's previous remarks. "You mean Miss Creery?' "Miss Creery, yeah." The littlo man grinned. "She's off to the Moon. Her daddy, too." "That's nice," said Ryeland. Carefully he kept his voice noncommittal, though he wondered who ho was fooling. No matter how well ho diguised his interest from Oporto, he couldn't disguise it from himself: Something inside him reacted to the thought of Donna Creery. Oporto sprawled lazily over Ryeland's desk. "Well, I don't know if it is so nice, Steve," he said seriously. "Maybe they ought to stay home and attend to business. Did you hear about the Paris tube collapse?" "What?" Ryeland wearily put down the sheaf of reports and blinked at his friend. His eyes smarted. He rubbed them, wondering if he needed sleep. But that # didn't seem reasonable, he figured; he'd had at least eight hours sleep in the previous forty-eight. In any case, he didn't have the time; so he put the thought out of his mind and said: "What the devil are you talking about, Oporto?" The little man said: "Just what I said. The Paris subtrain to Finland. The tube collapse. More than a hundred people missing -- and that means dead, of course. When a tube gives out a hundred miles down you aren't 'missing.' " Rycland said, starrted: "But that isn't possible! I mean, T know the math for those tubes. They can collapse. all right, but not vithout plenty of warning. They can't break down without three hours of field degeneration -- plenty of time to halt transits." Oporto shrugged. "A hundred dead people would be glad to know that. Steve." he said. Ryeland thought for a second "Well," he said wearily, "maybe you're right, maybe the Planner ought to be around to keep an eye on things like that... Oh, hello, Major." Chatterji came smiling in, peering amiably through his gold glasses. "I wondered if there was anything to report, Mr. Ryeland." While Ryeland searched through the papers on his desk, Oporto said: "We were just talking about the Paris trouble. Major." Chatterji's brown eyes went op' que. There was a marked silence. Ryeland took it in, and realized that Machine Major Chatterji was concerned about the tube failure between Paris and the Finland center. Odd, he thought, why should Chatterji care? But he was too weary to pursue the subject further. He found the requisition he was looking for and silently passed it across the Chatterji. Tb.e major glanced at it casually, then intently. His crcw-cut black hair seemed to stand on end. "But, dear Rycland!" he protested, blinking throng: I In's gold-rimrned glasses. "This equipment -- " "I've ch-ecked it with the Machine," Rycland said obstin.ately. "Here," He showed the tcletane to Major Chatterji. Acth;P PequeFt approved. Action. Concert with Major Chatterji. Information. Power sources at Point Cii'cle Black not adequate to demands. "But, my d-.ar PyelandT The major's expression was tortured. "B isn't only a niattcr of power sources. Think of the r-'er cons'ricrabons!" "What the Plan requires, the Plan shall have," Ryeland quoted, beginning to enjoy himself. "Of course, of course. But -- " The major studied the list. "You have enough rdrctronic equipment here to run a u'dversity lab," he wailed "And some of it is dangerous. After the, uh, accident Mr. Oporto was talkine about, surely you under stand that we can't take chances." Ry eland stared. "What does that have to do with the Team project?" The major said angrily, "The Plan can't stand accidents, Mr. Ryeland! This equipment creates radiation hazards, if nothing else, and IF there are eighty thousand people in Points Circle Black, Triangle Gray, Crescent Green and Square silver alone. They can't be exposed to this sort of thing!" Ryeland tapped the teletape meaningfully. "Oh," sighed the major, "if the Machine approves..." He thought for a moment, then brightened. "I have it! An orbiting rocket!" Ryeland was taken aback. "What?" "An orbiting rocket filled with all the equipment you want," Chatterji said eagerly. "Why not? Everything run by remote control. I can requisition one for you at once, Mr. Ryeland! And you can fill it with all the dangerous equipment you like -- what do we care what happens to any wandering spacelings, eh?" He winked and giggled. "Well," said Ryeland doubtfully, "we could do it that way." "Of course we could! We'll arrange a TV repeater circuit with remote-controlled apparatus. You work in your lab, the equipment is out in space. Perform any experiments you like. And that way," he beamed, "if you blow the lab up you destroy only one ship, not all of MJ." He bustled off. I t was astonishing what the Plan of Man could accomplish. The rocket was loaded, launched and orbited in forty-eight hours. Ryeland never saw it. He monitored the installation of the equipment he wanted via TV circuits, tested the instruments, gave the okay -- and watched the fire-tailed bird leap off its launching pad through a cathode screen. At once he put it to work. The only thing they had learned about the force the spaceling generated, what the Planner had called the "jetless drive", waa that it was indetectable. But that in itself was a great piece of knowledge. Ryeland's researchers had turned up another fact -- a highenergy nuclear reaction which turned out less energy than went into it -- and it was just possible, it was more than possible, it was perhaps a fact, that that missing energy was not missing at all, but merely not detectable. Like the energy of the spaceling... Ryeland determined to recreate the nuclear reactions which were involved. Until the morning that the Togetherness girl woke him with news: "Rise and shine, Steve," she sang, bringing him his breakfast. "Guess what! General Fleemer's going to be at the Teamwork conference today." Steve got groggily to his feet. "That's his privilege," he said thickly, and looked at her, young, pretty, fresh -- though she had been with him, tirelessly running errands, through half the night, "Don't you ever get tired?" he asked sourly. "Oh, no, Steve! Eat your breakfast." She perched on his chair, watching him, and said earnestly: "We're not here to get tired, Steve. We have our job! We Togethernesa girls are the connecting wires that hold the Plan of Man's circuit together." He gaped at her, but she was serious. "That's right' she nodded. "The Plan of Man depends as much on us as on the transistors and condensers and capacitors -- that's you and the other brass. Everyone, is important! Don't forget, Steve: 'To each his own job -- and his own job only. " "I won't forget," he said, and wearily drank his citrus juice. But the girl had something on her mind, he saw. She was waiting for an opportunity to speak to him. "Well? What is it?" She seemed embarrassed. "Oh, "Uh -- it's just that -- well, there's talk, Steve. The girls were wondering about something." "For heaven's sake, say it!" "We wondered," she said primly, "if our Team really had anything to do with these accidents." Ryeland blinked and rubbed his eyes. But rubbing his eyes didn't change anything; the girl still sat there with the mildly embarrassed, mildly apologetic expression. "Accidents? Faith, what are you talking about?" "The Paris-Finland tube," she recited. "The Bombay power plant explosion. The cargo-jet crash in Nevada. You know." "No, I didn't know. Half those things I never heard of. Oporto's been falling down on the job." "There are others, Steve. And what the girls are saying -- " She paused. "I only wondered if it was true. They say our Team project has caused them. They even say that you, Steve -- " "That I what?" "Oh, I suppose it's ridiculous. General Fleemer said it wasn't really true, anyway, that you had something to do with it. But they say you were involved in planning the subtrains..." He grumbled, "They say some weird things. Excuse me while I dress, will you?" He couldn't put it out of his mind. It was foolish, he mought testily. How did rumors like that start? At the day's Teamwork conference, sure enough. General Fleemer had done them the unusual honor of attending. Ryeland scowled at him thoughtfully, then remembered the silly rumor. "Before we get started," he demanded, "has anybody heard anything about our work causing accidents?" A dozen blank expressions met his stare. Then the head of the computer section coughed and said hesitantly, "Well, there was some talk, Mr. Ryeland." "What kind of talk?" The computerman shrugged. "Just talk. One of the data-encoders had heard from a cousin who heard from somebody else. You know how it goes. The story is that our work here has upset the radio-control circuits, heaven knows how." "That's preposterous!" Steve exploded. "What the devil do they mean by that?" He stopped himself. It wasn't the computerman's fault, after all. "Well," he said grimly, "if anybody hears anything else like that, I want it reported to me!" Heads nodded; every head but General Fleemer's. He barked testily: "Ryeland! Are we going to gossip about accidents, or is the Team going to chart its course for the day?" Ryeland swallowed his temper. In spite of the fact that Donna Creer had put him in charge of the Team, General Flecmer's seniority made him a bad man to tangle with. "All right," said Ryeland, "let's get on with it." Then he brightened. "I saw your report, Lescure. Want to elaborate on it?" Colonel Lescure cleared his throat. "After a suggestion by Mr. Ryeland," he said, nodding, "we instituted a new series of X-ray examinations of the spaceling. By shadowgraphing its interior and using remote-chromotography analytic techniques I have discovered a sort of crystalline mass at the conflux of its major nervous canals. This is in accordance with the prediction made by Mr. Ryeland." Fleemer demanded harshly: "What does it mean?" Ryeland said eagerly: "It means ' we're making headway! There had to be some sort of such arrangement for controlling and directing the jetless drive. After yesterday's computer run, and some further calculations Oporto did for me, I asked Colonel Lescure to make the tests. He did -- on overtime, as you see. "What this means," he said, beginning to lecture, "is that we have found where the spaceling's force is generated and directed. And there's one other thing we learned from yesterday's calculations. Phase-rule analysis indicates zero possibility of any electromagnetic or gravitic force. I have the report here, ready for transmission to the Machine." General Fleemer nodded slowly, looking at Ryeland. After a moment he said, "Does it account for what happened to the mining colonies in Antarctica?" Ryeland was puzzled. "I don't understand... "No? I refer to the explosion of the power reactor last night, which destroyed them, at a very great loss to the Plan of Man. Not the only loss, Ryeland. A spaceship has been lost through a failure of its helical field accelerator. The same helical field which was involved in the reactor explosion -- and in other accidents, Ryeland. The same field which you helped to design." "The design is not to blame," Ryeland protested desperately. "If there have been accidents, they must be due to mechanical failure or human error or deliberate sabotage -- " "Exactly!" "How could I be to blame for accidents in Antarctica and a hundred miles down and out beyond the Moon?" "That's exactly what the Machine will want to know." "Perhaps it is only chance," he suggested wildly. "Coincidence. Accidents have happened in series before -- " "When?" "I don't remember, I -- I can't recall." He stammered and gulped, and walked away. The veil of gray fog across his past was thicker. Everything except his science was a swirl of unreality and contradiction. Alone in his room, he tried again to come to grips with that old riddle of the three days missing from his life. What had the therapists suspected that he had done in that lost interval? Why had they expected him to know anything about a call from Dan Horrock, or about fusorians and pyropods and spacelings or about how to design a reactionless drive? Lescure's story had given him clues, but they were too fragmentary to make much sense. Horrock had left the Cristobal Colon with unauthorized specimens and descriptions of the life of space. Did the Machine suspect that he had been in contact with Ryeland, before he was recaptured and consigned to the Body Bank? Ryeland turned the puzzle over, and saw no light. According to Donna Creery, there had really been three days between the knocking on his door and the arrival of the Plan Police. Had the knocking he remembered really been Horrock? If so, what had erased his memory? He stared at the wall and probed through the fog in his mind. He tried to remember Horrock, still perhaps in his uniform, soiled from his flight, perhaps bleeding from some wound, panting with terror and exhaustion, lugging the black canvas space bag that held his stolen notes and specimens -- The images had become queerly real. Were they all imagination? Had Horrock brought him some information vital to the invention of a jetless drive? He couldn't recall. IF He fell at last into a restless sleep, into a nightmare in which he and Horrock were in flight from the Plan Police. T he next morning Ryeland went directly from his room to the spaceling's cage in the rocket pit -- and stopped, appalled. The spaceling lay crushed and bleeding in its cage. Ryeland ran to the cage and let himself in. The creature had grown to know him. It lay wrapped in a fading glow of misty green, eyes dulled; but as he entered its eyes brightened angrily. It lifted off the floor. Suddenly apprehensive, Ryeland dodged outside and slammed the cage door -- just in time. The spaceling darted toward him with flashing speed. The cage rocked as she struck the do Jng door. Anchor chains clanked. Fresh blood ran down the bars, and a flan of golden fur was torn loose. She collapsed again, mewing piteously. Ryeland felt the first real rage he had known in years. He spun on his heel. "Gottling!" he bawled. "What the devil have you been up to?' The colonel appeared, looking sardonically self-satisfied. "Mr. Ryeland," he nodded. Ryeland took a firm grip on himself. Gottling looked more like a skull than ever, the radar horns giving a Satanic expression to a face that was cold and cruel enough to begin with. But those radar horns were not merely ornament. Team leader or not, Ryeland was a risk. The cold. complacent smile that twisted the corners of Gottling's thin lips was enough of a reminder of their relative status. One touch of the radar button on Gottling's harness and it was the end of Ryeland. But this was too much. Ryeland blazed: "You've been torturing the thing again!" "I suppose so," Gottling agreed mildly. "Damn you! My orders were -- " "Shut up, Risk!" There was no smile at all now. Gottling thrust a telctape at Ryeland. "Before you go too far, read this!" Ryeland hesitated, then took the tape. It read: Information. Agreed present line of investigation unneccessarily slow. Information. Danger of additional accidents possibly related Ryeland method of research must be investigated. Information. Possibility Ryeland engaged in direct sabotage subtrains, reactors, ion drives. Action. Direction of Team project returned to General Fleemer. Action. Supplementary lines to be initiated at discretion Colonel Gottling. Ryeland stared at it, dazed. The Machine had reversed itself againi But in truth it wasn't his own position, difficult though it had suddenly become, that concerned him. It was the spaceling. "Supplementary lines!" he thundered. "Man, you'll kill her!" Gottling shrugged, contemplating the spaceling. It lay gasping on the steel floor, looking up at them. n "Perhaps I will not wait for her to die," the colonel said meditatively. "Pascal does not wish to perform a vivisection, but he would hardly dare refuse the orders of the Machine, Even he." He smiled frostily and commented: "You are all alike, Pascal Lescure and the Planner's daughter and you. Risk. Blood frightens you. But pain is not contagious. You need not fear to observe it in others, it will not infect you. Indeed," he beamed, "there is much to learn in the pain of others." Ryeland said tightly: "I'm going to report this to Donna Creery." The colonel widened his eyes. "Oh? You need the Planner's daughter to fight your battles?" He allowed a silence to hang over them for a moment. Then, forgivingly: "But it does not matter, for you will not find that possible, Ryeland. Miss Creery is on the Moon. So you see, Risk, what happens to the spaceling from now on is entirely up to me." R yeland flung open the door of his room and headed for the teletype in the corner. Oporto and the Togetherness girl were there. He paused, distracted for a moment; he seemed to have interrupted something, but what? It didn't matter. He barked: "Oporto! What's Donna Creery's call number?" Oporto coughed. "Gee, Steve. I don't know. Three? Fifteen?" "Cut it out, Oporto," Ryeland warned dangerously. "Three." Ryeland thumped the teletype keyboard: Query. Permission for direct hookup communication Donna Creery station #. The teletype hardly hesitated: Information. Refused. "Well," Oporto said reasonably, "what did you expect? The Machine can't have its circuits tied up with -- " "Shut up." Ryeland was typing again, demanding a connection with the Planner himself. Information. Refused. "You see, Steve? You aren't getting anywhere. What's got you so steamed up ?" Ryeland told him in half a dozen sentences what was getting him so steamed up. "Oh, that's too bad," murmured the Togetherness girl. "The poor thing." Oporto seconded: "Tough. Well, what are you going to do? We're only Risks. We can't buck Gottling and all those." He sneezed, and complained: "See, Steve, you're gedding me all upset. I bet I'm catching a code." Ryeland looked at him blankly; be had not heard what Oporto had said, and hardly knew the other two were in the room with him. What could he do? Cut off from the Planner or his daughter, he had no chance to keep Gottling from murdering the spaceling. That was the end of the project. If what the Planner had told him was true, it actualIF ly endangered the Plan itself; for the jetless drive, the spaceling's queer method of propulsion, was important to the safety of all the Plan. Yet the Planning Machine would not allow him to -- He blinked and the room came into focus. "The Planning Machine!" he said aloud. "What? Steve," moaned Oporto, "now what are you going to do?" But Ryeland didn't answer. He sat at the keyboard of the machine and with a steady hand tapped out an account of what had happened. Colonel Gottling had deliberately controverted the orders of Donna Creery and the Machine itself. The spaceling was in danger. The Plan itself was threatened. He finished, and waited. And waited. And waited for long minutes, while Oporto and the girl whispered behind him. It was incredible that the Machine should take so long to answer! Ryeland asked himself feverishly: Was it turned on, was the wire cut, could it be possible that the Machine's circuits were so overloaded that the message was not received? He was actually bending over, hardly aware of what he was doing, to be sure that the machine was properly plugged in when abruptly it whirred and rattled. Ryeland was up like a shot. But the message was unbelievably short. It said only: R. "Received and understood," Oporto said sympathetically from behind him. "Gee, Steve. That's all? WeU, that's the Machine for you. It isn't up to us to question -- Steve. Hey. Steve! Where are you going?" But Ryeland was already gone. R yeland hurried down the corridors to General Fleemer's quarters. He had wasted time and it was now late; he would be waking the general up, but he didn't care about that, not now. He tapped on the door and then, without oausing, banged hard. "A minute, a minute," mumbled a grumpy voice. A wait. Then the door was flung open. General Fleemer was in lounging pajamas, bright purple tunic, striped purple and scarlet pants. The collar and cuffs were picked out in silver braid, and the room behind him was silver. Silver walls, silver-mounted furniture on a silvery rug. It was a startling effect. Fleemer growled irritably: "Ryeland? What the devil do you want?" "I have to talk to you. General." He didn't wait for an invitation, but slipped past him into the room. Then something stopped him and he paused, stared, distracted even from the important mission he was on. There was a statue by the fireplace, a bright silver statue of a girl. But it moved! It opened silver eyelids and looked at him. With pink-tinged lips, like metallic copper in a silver face, it said: "Who is this one?" "Go in the other room!" the general barked. The silver statue shrugged and stood up. It was no statue but a girl; the motion revealed it as she stared at Ryeland and left. Ryeland blinked. Dusted with silver to look like living metal, even her hair silver -- the general had a remarkable private life. But it was no business of Ryeland's at this moment. He said briskly: 'Sir, Colonel Gottling is about to destroy the spaceling. I'm afraid he is deliberately trying to sabotage the project.' Suddenly the general was no longer a cross, sleepy little fussbudget. His cat's eyes slitted down, his face abruptly became stone. "Go on," he said after a second. "Why -- that's all there is, sir. Isn't it enough? If Colonel Gottling goes ahead with vivisection it will kill the creature, I'm certain. Miss Creery left specific orders -- " "Wait," said the general, but did not invite him to sit down. He turned his back to Ryeland and strode over to his desk. He pressed a button on his desk phone and leaned over to yell into it. "Gottling? Get down to my quarters. Ryeland's here." Mumble-mumble from the desk phone. It was directional; Ryeland couldn't understand the wo.ds and wasn't meant to. "On the double!" the general barked, cutting off discussion, and broke the connection. Without looking at Ryeland he slumped in a chair, shading his eyes with his hands, and remained there until there was a crisp knock at the door. Colonel Gottling walked in. He did not seem disturbed, not in the least. And he was not alone. Machine Major Chatterji came smiling and bowing behind him. "What a lovely room, General! Oh, really lovely. It takes exquisite taste to transform our dreary barracks into -- " "Shut up." General Fleemer stood. Ryeland waited, poised for whatever excuse Gottling might offer, ready to confront him with the facts as soon as the general began his accusation. But the general did not begin. The general did not speak to Gottling at all. He said: "All right, Chatterji, have you got the orders?" "Yes, General. Certainly! Here you are. I knew you'd be wanting them, so -- " The general moved slightly and Chatterji was still. Fleemer took a sheet of teletype communication paper from the major's hand and passed it to Ryeland without comment. Ryeland glanced puzzlcdly at it. Then he felt a sudden quick burning sen.sation, as though a knife had reached him unsuspected. The message said: Information. Ryeland, Steven, Risk, change of status approved. Action. Subject will therefore without delay. peated aloud. He shook his head, dazed. "But -- there's got to be some mistake here, because, look, "You mean the Body Bank, as it is otherwise known." General Fleemer nodded wisely. "That's correct, IF and that is where you're going. You were perfectly right about Gottling sabotaging the Project, you see. Your only mistake was in thinking that he was alone," IX H eaven was on the island of Cuba. The subtrain took nearly an hour to get there. Ryeland hardly noticed. They rode in a rrray steel ball, far less luxurious than the Planner's private car. When they stopped, Ryeland, still dazed, still shocked, got out and blinked at a massive concrete archway over a steel gate. The letter in the concrete read: Resurrection under the Plan The station was gray concrete. Air ducts blew a clammy breath at them. A guard in white, a red heart stitched on the breast of his tunic, came forward to take charge. The major who had convoyed Ryeland's detail, tvventytwo new cadavers for the Body Bank, turned them over gratefully and went back into the subtrain without a look. He didn't like this escort detail. No one did. It was a reminder of mortality; even a machine major could be made to realize that one bad blunder, or one bad break, could put him in Heaven too. "Come on!" bawled the guard, and apathetically the twenty-two walking collections of spare parts followed him through the gate. A narrow corridor. A long rectangular room, with wooden benches. Ryeland sat and waited and, one by one, they were admitted to a smaller room. When it was his turn Ryeland walked through the door and a girl grasped his arm, thrusting it under the black-light. Her hair was red, the same bright red as the heart that was stitched on her uniform. Under the light his tattoo glowed faintly. She read off his name and number in a rapid drone. "Steven Ryeland," she said in the same continuous drone, "when you entered this gate you leave life behind as an individual you have failed to justify your place in the Plan the tissues of -- " She yawned sharply. She shook her head and grinned. "Excuse me. Where was I? The tissues of your body however may still serve the Plan before you enter have you anything to say?" Ryeland thought. What was there to say? He shook his head. "Go ahead, then. Through that door," said the girl. Behind Ryeland the door clanged with a steel finality. irst there were tests. Ryeland was shipped, scrubbed weighed, measured. X-rayed, bloodtested, tissue-tested, ascaulted, palped and all but sniffed and tasted. A bit of his flesh was snipped and whisked to a complex bench where a team of girls put it through a process of staining and microscopy. From their studies a genetic map was made of his chromosomes, every allele and allomorph in place, and coded into binary symbols which were stamped on his collar. It was interesting. Transplants of body organs did not survive, not even with suppressants, if the donor and subject were too different in their genetic makeup. Antibodies formed. The new tissue was attacked by the environment it found itself in. It died. So, usually, did the patient. The more delicate the tissue involved, the closer the genetic resemblance had to be. It was an old story. Any cornea can be imbedded in any other eye; the tissues are crude and simple, mostly water. blood from one to another -- blood is a tissue little more complex than the cornea. But the more highly specialized members are transferable, without suppressants, only between identical twins. Suppressants -- something like the allergy-controlling pharmaceuticals which once helped hold down hay fever -- can make the range of tolerance broader; but, even so, genetic patterns must be matched as closely as possible. It was good that it was interesting. Ryeland was able to keep his mind on it. He did not find himself dwelling on the fact that he was now in the position of the spaceling under Gottling. He did not have to contemplate the prospect of what was essentially (however gentle, however carefully anesthetized for him) the Death of a Thousand Cuts. And then they turned him loose, without warning. He had expected a cell. He was He tripped over a tuft of grass and, blinking in warm Caribbean afternoon sun, found himself in a broad park, with trees and comfortablelooking cabins. He started forward, then happened to think of something and returned to the guard. 'What do I do now? Who do I report to?" "Nobody," said the guard, gently closing the door. "Nobody at all, any more." R yeland walked down a broad green lane toward the glint of water, it was as good a direction to go as any. He had never in all his life before had the experience of being without orders. It was almost more disturbing than the sure prospect of dismemberment that lay before him. He was so absorbed in the feeling that he hardly heard someone calling to him until the man raised his voice. "You! Hey, you new fellow! Come back here!" Ryeland turned. The man who was calling him was about fifty years old -- the prime of life. He should have been a husky, bronzed creature with all his hair. Statistically he should hardly have needed even glasses. Forty good years should still be ahead of him at least. But the man who limp-stumped up to Ryeland had none of these things. He was totally bald. (In a moment, as the sunlight caught it, Ryeland saw that what had seemed to be the man's scalp was a plastic covering.) He walked with a shoulder-cane -- almost a crutch. And what he walked on were not fleshand-blood feet but prosthetic appliances. One eye was only a patch; the other was drawn into a squint by another area of pink plastic that covered the place where once he had had an ear. "You! Did you just come in?" he cried. His voice was deep and vibrant; that, at least, he had kept. Ryeland said, keeping his expression polite with some difficulty, "Yes, that's right. My name is Steve Ryeland." "Never mind that. Do you play bridge?" The difficult expression collapsed for a second, but Ryeland got it back. "I'm afraid not." "Damn." When the man scowled it pointed up another peculiarity of his face. He had no eyebrows. "How about chess?" "Yes, a little." "Speak up!" the man barked, turning his good ear irritably to Ryeland. "T said yes!" "Well, that's worth something," the man said, grudging the words. "Um. Maybe you could learn bridge, hey? We're a good house. No rough stuff, no stealing. And no basket cases." He said proudly: "I'm the senior inmate in the house. Take a look at me. See? I've got plenty left." Ryeland said slowly, "You mean I can pick out the house I live in? I don't know the rules here yet." "There aren't any rules. Oh," the man shrugged, "no fights resulting in bodily injury, no hazardous sports -- they salvage you total for that sort of thing. You know. What you've got, it doesn't belong to you any more. It's the Plan's and you're supposed to take care of it." He hitched himself forward on his shoulder-cane. "Well, what about it? You look all right to me. Take my advice and come in with us. Never mind what the other houses say -- those Jupiters will be talking about their pingpong table, and what good is that when tomorrow morning you maybe won't have what to play pingpong with!" He grinned confidentially, revealing a set of casually placed artificial teeth. Ryeland went with the one-eyed man, whose name turned out to be Whitehurst. The man was a good salesman, but he had not exaggerated the value of choosing the right hut. Ryeland could see that for himself; some cottages had a rundown, disreputable air, the inmates lounging around, surly and bored. Whitehurst's house was busy if nothing else. It was amazing, but Ryeland found Heaven rather pleasant. There was food -- good food, Whitehurst told him proudly, no synthetics or retreads! (The tissues had to be kept up.) There was plenty of leisure. (The patient had to be always in shape for major surgery.) There was... well... freedom, said Whitehurst, almost embarrassed as he Ryeland found out that it was so. If Heaven was a jail, at least the walls were out of sight. There was no fear of making a mistake and falling to ruin; there was no farther to fall. The physical plant was ideal. Small cottages dotted a green landscape. Palms stood on green hills. There was a grove of oaks and IF cedars by a lake, and the lake contained actual fish. The tropic sky was a permanent milky blue, with high-piled cumulus to give it life. Whitehurst's cottage called themselves the Dixie Presidents. No one remembered what doomed antiquarian, generations before, had selected the name, but it was the custom to name each house and succeeded inmates kept the names; it was a tradition. The Dixie Presidents were an all-male cottage, by choice. It was up to the inmates. Not all the houses were so monastic. There were as many women as men in Heaven, and the co-ed cottages were given to wild sounds late at night. But that was up to the inmates too. Listening to the evening conversation of his fellow inmates, Ryeland found a few things which struck him as odd. The cottage across the way was occupied by a family group. Strange! Their name was Minton -- Mr. Minton, Mrs. Minton and their five grown children. What mass crime had the Minton family committed to be scrapped en masse? It was queer. The principle that lay behind the Body Bank he knew well. It had been explained to him in detail on his travel orders, even if he had been the one man alive under the Plan who didn't know all about it from infancy. Each human under the Plan of Man was required to make a contribution toward the good of all. If inefficiency, malevolence or carelessness kept him from doing what he was asked, he would then be permitted to contribute in another way. He would be scrapped. His limbs and organs would be put to the use of more valuable citizens, replacing parts damaged through accident or disease. It was a project more attractive to the recipient than to the donor, of course. Yet it did have a sort of rough justice, and Ryeland thought he could bring himself to tolerate whatever might happen -- the world's good was more important than his own! And yet... One thing did bother him. In hii life he had known or heard of a fair number of persons who had been scrapped for the salvage of their parts in the Body Bank. And yet he could not remember ever, not even once, having encountered a man who had benefited from these organs... Now at last, when it was too late to matter, Ryeland had time to return to the riddle of his three missing days. He was tormented with the possibility that he had once known a precious secret which could somehow transform the Plan of Man -- if he could just recall it. That night after he had watched the bridge game for a few minutes he lay trying to remember. Had there been a knocking twice on his door, on Friday and again on Monday? If Horrock had really come to him, what message could he have brought? Even if a jetless drive could be invented, how could it threaten the Plan? Who besides Donderevo was free from the Machine? He found no answers. The fog was thicker in his memory. Even the fat, apologetic face of Dr. Thrale was growing dim. He no longer flinched when he remembered the cold electrodes clamped on his body. He fell asleep and dreamed that he had discovered a jetless drive. It was a broomstick. He rode it through a jungle of five-pointed tinsel stars, with General Fleemer astride a spaceling close behind him. Fleemer was goading and spurring the spaceling, and it was screaming horribly. an eveille! Reveille! Everybody IVup!" Ryeland woke up with a start; he had been dreaming that he was in the Body Bank, in an unusually soft bed, and woke to found it true. He sat blinking at the bunk across from him. It looked more like a surgical supply house than a human being's bed. The cords of a boneconduction hearing aid dangled from the stainless-steel shafts of a prosthetic arm. A self-powered wheelchair bore ten pounds of assorted steel, copper, rubber and plastic. As in the ancient joke about the wedding night, there was more of Ryeland's roommate on the bureau than in the bed. The roommate was a plump man of rosy complexion, what there was left of it, and ill temper. His name was Alden. "Come on, Ryeland," he screeched faintly in the high-pitched whisper of the newly deaf. "You know the rules of the house. Give me a hand." "All right." There was plenty of time before morning shape-up and breakfast, so Ryeland had been told; there had to be, for the senior members of the community needed plenty of time to get their miscellaneous artificial parts in place. As a newcomer, still complete in his organs, Ryeland had obligations. The juniors took care of the seniors. Seniority ruled -- not age, but length of time in Heaven. It was a fair system, it was explained to Ryeland, and it was enlightened selfinterest besides. "You'll find out," Whitehurst had said grimly. "Wait till you're missing a few little chunks." In the morning the conversation was less placid, less polite than at night. It was odd too, thought Ryeland, listening carefully. In the morning the one universal topic was Escape. Perhaps it was only the wake-up irritability of the normal human, but even the advanced basket cases from the huts next door laid their plans and carefully measured the daily patrol of the guard helicopters. Alden muttered for twenty minutes about the chance of swimming to a miraculously borrowed fishing submarine that some incredibly loyal friend from Life might arrange to have out beyond the breakers. It was foolish, it was pathetic. There was hardly enough left of him to bother escaping with. And his tone the night before had been bland resignation: "You'll learn, my boy," he told Ryeland, "we're here for a reason. It's right." It was puzzling. In the night Ryeland had been bothered by something sticking him in the ribs. IF Once Alden was wheeled away he searched, and there, thrust under the seams of the mattress, was a flat aluminum case. He opened and spilled out lump sugar, maps, terribly amateurish faked travel orders from the Machine. And a journal. The journal was the work of some previous occupant who signed himself only by initials -- D.W.H. -- and it covered a period of almost three years. The first entry was sober self-appraisal : June #. I arrived in Heaven this morning. I canT get out. If I did get out, there would be no place to go. But if I let myself give up the hope of somehow getting out I might as well be dead. Therefore I will try to escape. And I will not brood. The last entry, in a palsied hand, was less sober, less analytic: May the -- what? #th, maybe. Just a min. bfr shape-up. I think IVe got it! Nbdy ever looks at the scrap-heap carcasses! IVe seen some that look better than I do now and, whoosh, they're down the chute  out on the barge when they clean up. So tonight's the night. All I have to dc is pass one more shape-up. I've plenty left. Aprnces don't matter. If I can just -- There's the bell. More Itr. The remaining pages were blank. B reakfast came before the morning shape-up and Ryeland, stuffing the journal back in the mattress, went thoughtfully out to eat. The food was all Whitehurst had promised! There was no rationing here, none at all. Sugar. Coffee. Real, thick cream. Ham with red gravy; cereal with more of the thick cream; fruits and hot biscuits. Ryeland ate until his stomach bulged. He began to feel better. The world seemed calmer, brighter; his housemates left off grumbling and plotting and began to laugh and shout along the long tables. Ryeland sat next to Whitehurst and brought up the subject of the previous occupant of his bunk. "Oh, him," said the one-eyed man "Old Danny. He was here for ever, considering. I mean, he must have been a very popular type, they took so much of him. I thought they'd never salvage him total, though all he had keeping him going at the end was a whirl-pump heart and twice a day filtrations on the kidney machine. Funny thing about Danny, his bidding was good enough but when he played a hand -- " "What happened to him?" Whitehurst scowled. "Took both lungs at one time. Pity, too. He still had two arms, clear down to the fingers." The bell summoned them out to the morning shape-up. There were three of them a day, Whitehurst whispered, and you had to be present. Otherwise total salvage, right away. The white guards with red hearts appliqued on their tunics moved up and down the ragged lines, checking the tattooed identification against lists. "Gutnick, Fairweather, Breen, Morchant," the one at the house of the Dixie Presidents chanted, "Nothing for you boys. You can fall out, Alden, Hensley -- Hensley? Say, how did that name get on the list? Wasn't he scrapped last week?" Half a dozen voices agreed he had been; the guard scratched the name off his list. "Lousy administrative work. Say. Who are you?" He took Ryeland's arm. "Oh, Steve Ryeland. Welcome to our little community. Nothing for you today, though. Whitehurst. Oh, yes. Come on, Whitehurst, you're in business." Ryeland got away as soon as he could. The others were laughing and relaxed, but seeing Whitehurst led away had chilled the soft warmth that had spread over Ryeland at breakfast. At any moment it might be his name that was on the list; if there was anything at all he could do about it, the time to do it was now. He retrieved the journal from his bed, escaped the back way and found a sunny spot on a hill. He sat down against a stone retaining wall and studied the diary of the late D.W.H. rhere was nothing about the man's life-in-Life in his journal. But whatever he had been he was a man ot method and intelligence. He had begun by systematically investigating his surroundings. From the first month's entries Ryeland learned a number of possibly useful statistics. There had then been # inmates in Heaven, counting twelve children under the age of eighteen (and what had they done to be here?) This was not the only Heaven; there probably were a number of others; twice shipments of inmates had gone out through the gate, to replenish another Heaven tefarily low in stock. There were never any guards inside the walls except at the shapeups. Usually about a dozen came in then, and D.W.H. had once been able to count the outside guards at fifteen more. Heaven roamed over nearly a hundred acres, and there was a map, heavily erased and redrawn, tucked into the journal. A note on the map told Ryeland that the walls were electrified and impenetrable, even down to a depth of fifty yards under the surface. Apparently someone had actually dug that far! The beach was not fenced, but there was a heavy steel net and, beyond that, a persuasive tradition of sharks. The only other break in the wall was the building through which he had entered, and its satellite structures -- the clinic, the administration building, the powerhouse. And the sanitation building. It was there that the "scrap-heap" had attracted D.W.H. 's attention. It was near the beach, and a chute led to a barge which, towed to sea, disposed of the left-over parts of the inmates as well as the more ordinary wastes of a community of several hundred. Ryeland mused thoughtfully over the map Only the scrap disposal chute looked promising. Yet the writer had not thought of it until after some months and, judging by the increasingly panicked and incoherent quality of his notes, his judgment must by then have begun to deteriorate. Still, it was worth a thought. He said a man could escape that way. Perhaps a man could... If he had a place to escape to. Ryeland put that thought out of his mind and read industriously in the journal until movements outside the cottages revealed that it was time for the mid-day shape-up. X N o Dixie President was called at noon. Only when they were dismissed did Pvyeland realize he had been holding his breath almost continuously. Gutnick, the man next to him in line, winked and said; "It gets you that way at first. It keeps on getting you that way too." Ryeland said only: "What's that?" Gutnick turned and looked. Down the gravel path two guards were solemnly pushing a wiicelchair and a handtruck of appliances. All were connected to the occupant of the wheelchair. There was little left of the man, if it was a man. All of his head was swathed in bandages --  if that was his head Only a little gap showed where the mouth was. The auxiliary handtruck carried a considerable array of pumps and tubing, stainless-steel cylinders and electric equipment. Gutnick said, "Oh, him." Gutnick could not wave, as both his arms had been needed elsewhere, but he inclined his torso and called: "Hi, Alec. What did you lose this time?" The bandaged head moved faintly. Nothing else moved on the man. The nearly invisible lips parted to gasp, in words li;i-ffs of smoke. "That you, Gutnick? Just the other kidney, I think." "You've got plenty left," lied Gutnick cheerfully, and they went in to lunch. Ryeland could not get the basket case out of his mind. "I didn't think they bothered to keep us alive, with that much gone." "I guess Steve's something special. He's senior in all Heaven. He's been here -- " Gutnick's voice was respectful -- "almost six years." Ryeland didn't have much appetite; but after he'd taken a few bites he had to stop in order to feed Girtnick anyway; and then he himself began to perk up. It was astonishing, he marveled after lunch, trudging aimlessly around the walks of Heaven, how the food here made Hfe so bearable. It showed that a good diet made a happy man. It showed --  why, he thought with a sudden miserable flash of insight, it showed nothing at all except that even a doomed creature like himself could submerge the forebrain in a wallow of physical pleasures. He determined to go right back to the house and get the diary, study it, plan -- Someone was calling his name. He turned, and Oddball Oporto was rushing toward him. "Gee! Ryeland! It's you!" Oporto stopped. So did Ryeland; and then he realized that what they were doing was appraising each other, looking for missing parts. So soon it had become a habit in this place. "You don't seem to be missing anything," said Ryeland. "I've only been here two days. Got here right ahead of you -- T saw you come in. I guess you stopped to turn in your gear? They didn't bother with that, with me... I should've stayed in Iceland, hey? Not that I hold it against you," he finished glumly. "Sorry." "Yeah. Well, where you living?" Ryeland told him about the Dixie Presidents, and Oporto was incredulous, "Gee! Those moldy old creeps? Say, why not come over to our place? There's two vacancies right now, and some of the boys are real sharp. You know, you lose a few parts and there isn't much left but the brain; so what you want is a few little problems to work on. Well, fellow next to me, he has a whole bunch of stuff from the Lilavata -- old Hindu math problems, mostly diophantine equations when you come down to it, but -- " Ryeland said gently: "I'm working on a different problem right now." Oporto waited. "I want to get out of here." "Oh, no. Wait a minute! Steve, don't be crazy. A fellow like you, you've got years here. Plenty to look forward to. You don't want to -- " "But I do want to," said Ryeland, "I want to get away. It isn't just my life, though I admit that's got a lot to do with it." "What else? Oh. You don't have to tell me. That girl." "Not the girl. Or not exactly. But she's part of it. Something bad's happening with the spaceling and Colonel Gottling. It ought to be stopped." Oporto said dismally, "Gee, Steve. You don't want to talk like that Anyway -- " He stopped. Ryeland knew Oporto well enough to wait him out. He prompted: "Anyway what?" "Anyway," said Oporto with some hesitation, "I don't know why you want to bother with her. I thought that other girl was more important to you. You know, # -- I forget her name." Ryeland took it like a blow between the eyes. That number -- he didn't have Oporto's queer memory for any arithmetical function, but surely it was the number of... "Angela Zwick," he whispered, remembering blonde hair, blue eyes and a mouth that testified against him at his hearing. "That's the one. Well, now! So you didn't forget her?" Oporto was enjoying his bombshell. "Why not go see her? She's been here quite a while -- over in a cottage by the lake." "She's really here? But she was with the Plan Police." Ryeland was dazed. Had the Plan come to this, that it scrapped its own undercover agents? "Well," said Oporto judiciously, "I guess you'd say she's here. Anyway, there's a quorum present. Why not go see for yourself?" T he first sensation was shock, and a terrible embarrassment. Ryeland scraped one foot against another, staring at the girl in the wheelchair. He said her name gruffly, and then he met her eyes and could say nothing else. Angela? This thing in the chair, was it the girl he IF had known? She had no arms and, from the flatness of the lap robe that draped her, no legs either. But her face was intact, blue-green eyes, golden hair; her husky, warm voice was the voice he had known. "Steve! It's good to see you!" She was not embarrassed at all, only amused. She laughed. "Don't gawk. But I know how you feel. You've only just arrived, and I've been here twenty-one months." Ryeland sat awkwardly on the grass before her. Her cottage lay in a little clump of woods, and there were neatly tended beds of flowers around it. Flowers! Ryeland could not remember ever having seen flowers around a dwelling before, only in parks. Though this was a kind of a park, at that. Angela said softly: "I wondered if I would ever see you again, after what happened." She cocked her chin, and a tiny motor droned; the velvet-covered chin rest that supported her head seemed to have switches in it, so that she could move the wheels of her chair. Facing him, she said seriously: "You don't blame me, do you?" Ryeland muttered: "You did your job under the Plan." "So wise of you to say that, Steve. Ah, Steve! I'm glad to see you again." She lifted her lovely chin. "We've got so much to talk about. Take me down by the lake," she commanded... For nearly three years Ryeland had rehearsed the speeches he would make to Angela Zwick if ever they chanced to come together, but in this place they were all wrong, he forgot the words. He had raged silently in his bed, he had pleaded with the stony fields of the isolation camp; now, facing the girl, he found himself engaged in a little conversation. They chatted. They laughed. It was pleasant. Pleasant! And she had put the collar around his neck. "There is always peace in serving the Plan," she told him wisely, reading his mind. They stopped by the lake and he sat down. "I don't even mind the collar any more," he murmured, suppressing a yawn. "Of course not, Steve." He scratched his shoulderblades against the bole of a palm. "I never thought I'd stop minding that. Why, I remember talking to a fellow about it in the isolation camp. He said I'd get over it. I said -- " He stopped, and frowned faintly. "What did you say to him, Steve?" "Why," he said slowly, "I told him that I'd never stop hating the collar unless I was dead, or drugged." She smiled at him with mandarin calm. B ack at the cottage of the Dixie Presidents, Ryeland thumbed through the journal that had once belonged to his predecessor in the bunk. There was an entry that he wanted to read again. He found it: This place is insidious. The atmosphere is so tranquil -- God knows how! -- that it is very tempting to relax and let what happens happen. Today Cullen came back from th' clinic giggling because a nurse had told him a joke. He had lost both eyes! And two days later: Yesterday I lost my other leg. It is painful, but they gave me shots for that. I wonder why it doesn't bother me. I keep thinking of Cullen. Frowning, Ryeland closed the book and went out to stand in the afternoon shape m. The other Dixie Presidents were already there, and their greetings w re chill. Ryeland paid very little attention, although he knew they were annoyed because he had spent so little time conforming with the customs of the cottage. He hardly even noticed the guards, with their scarlet hearts blazoned on their white tunics, as they came droning down the line with their rolls. There was something more important on his mind. Ryeland was reasonably sure that his mind was functioning as well as it ever had. But he was finding it hard to think this matter through. He didn't mind the collar. That was the first term in the syllogism. Something in the diary supplied the second term. What was the conclusion? "Come on, I said!" said a guard's voice, annoyed, and Ryeland woke up to the fact that his name had been called. He gawked "Me? Are you calling me?" "You. That's what I said, man! You're on orders today. Come on to the tissue bank!" IF XI T he group of scrapped men waited for the elevator. The man next to Rjeland was whispering feverishly under his breath, his eyes fixed on the elevator door as though it were the gate to hell. He caught Ryeland looking at him and threw him a wild smile. "First time for you? Me, too. But I figure it won't be much, you know." "All right, all right." The guards began to herd them into the opening elevator door. "Move along, now!" The elevator dropped swiftly and let them out in an underground hall. Blue asepsis lamps winked on the walls, a hum from the air ducts told of purifiers at work. The guards ordered them to sit down. There were a dozen long, wooden benches. The waiting room was not at all crowded, though there were twenty or more walking cadavers in it. Ryeland looked around at them. Some seemed to have all their faculties and parts; if there was anything missing, it was not such as would appear on the surface. Many showed signs of being nibbled away -- a leg missing, " ear, a finger or two. And some ' were so much prosthesis, so little f h and blood, that it was a wonder that the surgeons could find anything left to take from them. The nervous man switched seats to join Ryeland and hissed in his ear: "See, the way I see it, they're not going to take much the first time. Why should they? For instance, your body might not transplant right. They can't tell. They'll have to do a couple little jobs first and see how they take, before they try anything big. I'm positive of that, friend..." He stopped as the door opened, his eyes like a tortured kitten's. But it was only a nurse walking through, and she paid no attention to them. Ryeland took time from his own worries to comfort the man. "That's right," he said. "That figures." It didn't, of course; the Plan knew all it had to know about them already. But the nervous man seized at the reassurance. He babbled: "Now, all we have to worry about is something little. Maybe some clumsy oaf lost a couple of fingers somewhere. Well, they'll take a finger. Or a couple of fingers..." He glanced wonderingly at his hand. "A couple of fingers. They'll take -- But what's that? You can spare them. Or a foot, maybe. But they aren't going to take anything big the first time, because -- " The door opened. A young, slim guard walked in. He was bored, and the look he gave the waiting cadavers was not intended for anything human. "Eckroth?" he called, reading from a list. The man next to Ryeland jumped. "Come on!" The nervous man stared frantically at Ryeland, swallowed, stood up and left, into a door that closed, silent and final, behind him. Ryeland sat and waited. One by one the cadavers were summoned to their operating rooms to give to the Plan what the Plan demanded of them. Ryeland watched them, because it was better to think of them than to think about himself: the oldster with the fireblue eyes, weeping into the maze of tubes that had replaced his breathing apparatus; the young girl with the curiously flat dressings along one side of her body; the men and women of all sizes and descriptions. Ryeland was almost the last of them all to be called. But at last it was his turn. A nurse beckoned to him. He stood up, feeling strangely empty. A queer premonitory tingling raced all over his peripheral nervous system, like a pain looking for its proper place to settle down and begin aching. What would it be? A foot, an arm, a set of teeth, some internal organs? "Oh, come on" said the nurse, looking ruffled. She was a pretty girl with red hair. She even wore a ring on her finger. Ryeland marveled. This girl was engaged I Somewhere there was a Plan-fearing man who looked at her with affection and warmth. And, here, she was the embodiment of something that was going to deprive Steve Ryeland of a part of his body. He walked stiffly after her. There was a roar in his ears: the drumming of his blood. It was very loud; he felt his heart thumping, very strong. Colors were bright, an antiseptic odor in the room was very sharp. His senses missed nothing. He felt the stiffness of his worn red uniform. The blue glare of the sterilamps was painfully bright. He was in a small room, dominated by a neat, high operating table, stainlessly white. Ryeland looked at the table and licked his lips. Unexpectedly the nurse giggled. "Oh, I swear. You cadavers take everything so hard. Don't you know why you're here?" Ryeland nodded stiffly. He knew very well. Still, it was odd that he didn't see the bright metal gleam of instruments. She said, humorously exasperated: "I don't think you do. Your blood, friend. That's all I'm going to take from you today. Maybe next time it will be different, of course. But right now we only need half a liter of your good red blood." F lat on his back, with his arm strapped to the table and a crisp, cool sheet covering his legs, Ryeland lay. He was watching his blood slowly fill a liter beaker up to a measured mark. His blood was wine-purple colored, and it seemed to flow very slowly. There was nothr at all painful about the process. Of course, it wasn't exactly pure pleasure. There was a queer jumpy sensation in his skin, a sort of warning of something that might hurt -- as though the nerve-ends, evolved to cope with grosser wounds and warn of instanter dangers, did not know quite what to tell the brain, and could only express a sort of worry. The tube made a faint vulgar sound from time to time, like a siphon sucking air, but there was no other noise. The nurse had left him. It was amazing how still the world was... il And it was amazing how clearly Ryeland could think. He was tranquil. More than that, he knew he was tranquil. More still, he was beginning to realize that he had been tranquil -- stupidly, crazily tranquil -- ever since he had arrived in the Body Bank! And so was everyone else! It accounted for the cheerful amputees and his heedless roommates at the Dixie Presidents. Tranquil! But it was not natural, and so it was due to drugs. Ryeland lay lazily watching the thick froth at the top of the beaker of his blood and marveled that he had not seen it before. Even the man who wrote the diary had never seen it, though he had come so close. Drugs! The Plan of Man understood that there were circuits in the human brain not subject to reason. Selfpreservation was one of them. The Machine would not risk a sudden flare-up of that instinct. The Machine must have known that, whatever the mood of the Body Bank's raw materials as they went in, however carefully conditioned to their duties under the Plan of Man, the threat of dismemberment and death could upset all conditioning. Therefore the Machine had taken steps. The obvious step -- how was it that no one had seen it? -- was to flood the cadavers with tranquilizing drugs. The nurse came in. She tapped the beaker lightly with a finger, fussed with the tubes, and in a moment deftly removed the needle from Ryelands arm. She was humming to herself. She pressed an alcohol pad over the little puncture in his arm and ordered; "Hold it that way to keep the pad in place." Ryeland was hardly listening. Tranquilizing drugs, he thought, like an echo; it explained everything. It explained why D.W.H.'s careful plans had come to nothing; before they could mature, the drive that would make them reality had been sapped. It explained why Ryeland himself had loafed for irretrievable days. The only astonishing thing was that he had found out. The nurse straightened his arm, plucked off the pad and pointed. "Out that way." Ryeland started obediently out the door, then stopped, shocked to alertness at last. An orderly was guiding an electric stretcher down the hall. On it, his eyes closed, lay the nervous man from Ry eland's group of donors. He looked to be asleep. Surely he had lost something -- but what? Arms were there, legs showed under the sheet, there was no mark on the motionless face. Ryeland said to the nurse: "Excuse me. That fellow. What happened with him?" The nurse peered past him. "Oh, that one." A shade came down over her eyes. "That was a big one. Did you know him?" "Yes." "I see." After a second she said briskly: "We needed a whole spine. There wasn't much point in trying to salvage any of the rest of him." Ryeland stumbled out into the corridor, following the corpse of the nervous man, who never again would have to be nervous. He glanced over his shoulder at the nurse and said: "Good-by." She said: "Fll be seeing you." human beings worked, studied, loved, quarreled and in general fulfilled their tiny assigned missions under the Plan of Man. In Saskatchewan an engineer turned a switch and the side of a mountain lifted itself, grumbled and slid into a lake, revealing an open vein of low-grade uranium ore, one of the last deposits left to tap. In the hillside town of Fiesole, in Italy, a Technicorps colonel made a field inspection of the new reservoir. The water level had risen a gratifying nineteen inches since his last report. He observed, from his flat-bottomed boat, how a certain jumbled pile of masonry he remembered seeing was now almost entirely submerged; it was the Pitti Palace, but he had never heard the name. (The Ponte Vcccnio was already twenty feet under the bottom of his boat.) Under Honduras, a subtrain shaft collapsed and eighteen hundred migratory agricultural workers were simultaneously cremated and dissolved in molten rock. The Planner, returned from the Moon, signed an order which would ultimately lower the level of the Mediterranean sea ninety feet, creating thousands of miles of new land around its dwindled shores and providing an enormous hydroelectric station at the Straits of Gibraltar... But on the isle of Cuba, no echo of these rumblings penetrated. Everything was calm. Everything was pleasant. And Steve Ryeland fought against it as hard as he could. He quarreled vigorously with his Dixie Presidents. The senior cadaver was hurt, shocked and mortified; as a consequence, half an hour later he lost count of trumps and suffered an eight-hundred point penalty in the afternoon's bridge game. Ryeland was well pleased. Quarreling stimulated his adrenals. He went out to find someone else to quarrel with. His logical candidate was Angela, and he found her where he had left her, sunning herself in front of her cottage. "Steve, dear," she whispered, but he did not want to be charmed. He said brutally: "I just made my first donation. Guess what it was?" He gave her a chance to scan him and look perturbed, then said: "Nothing much, only blood. Lucky, eh?" It was terribly bad manners. She said, "Yes, Steve, that's lucky. Must we talk about it? Oh, I know! Let's go down to the lake again. It's warm today, and there's bound to be a breeze at the fountains -- " "That's all you care about, isn't it?" "Stevel" "Food and comfort. Are those the only things that matter to you?" Angela said petulantly, "Steve, you're in an unpleasant mood this afternoon. If you don't want to come with me I'll go alone." "Do you care?" IF She opened her mouth, closed it, looked at him and shook her head. She was angry; but she was also untouched by it. As Ryeland was an irritation, she removed herself from it. He stood there thoughtfully. Even after Angela had flounced away, as best a woman with neither arms nor legs can flounce, he stood there, thinking. Knowing that ther were tranquilizers flooding his bloodstream was one thing, knowing what to do about it was something else. He could keep his adrenal glands combating the drug by quarreling, even by exercising, but it was wearing. It would be better to keep the drug from his system in the first place... It was very simple. It needed only one thing, Ryeland saw. He would merely have to stop eating and drinking entirely. B y lunchtime the next day he began to see the flaws in that scheme. He had worked it out very carefully. He had to eat something, otherwise he would die, and that would be no improvement at all. He settled on eating sugar. That day after the noon formation he entered the messhall, carried his tray to a corner -- and abandoned it there, untouched. He filled his pockets with sugar, as inconspicuously as he could. !t was a calculated risk. All foods were suspect, sugar included. But even the thorough Machine would not be likely to bother with sugar. Of course, water was out of the question. Already Ryeland was beginning to feel parched. He thought of making a still, somehow, and purifying the water from the lake. It would attract attention... but he was getting very thirsty. He went to see Angela and tried to take his mind off his thirst. They roamed about, the girl in her remarkably agile wheeled chair. She found him hard to endure that day. They sat by the lake and Steve Ryeland stared at it longingly. Water, lovely and clear. Beautiful water. Sweet water! But it was the source for all the drinking water in Heaven, and undoubtedly it was already treated. He talked about swimming and clinking ice in a glass and the spray from the prow of a boat until Angela, faintly exasperated, said: "Go swimming, then. No, don't worry about me." Gentle smile. "Td rather not, for reasons which are apparent, but you go ahead. It's what you want, isn't it?" And it was; but Ryeland refused vigorously until he thought of something and then went to get a pair of trunks. Why not go swimming? It was a trick torpedoed sailors had learned centuries before. If one merely lay in the water and relaxed, it would help control thirst. It wouldn't help much. But it would help a little -- perhaps it would keep him alive until his brain was clear and he could think surely enough to find a way out. But, oh, that water was tempting! He lay in the shallows and played a sort of game. It was for high stakes, his whole life riding on the turn of the wheel. He let the water come up to his chin. He let it touch his lip. He even let a few drops of it into his mouth; then he filled his mouth and held the water there. It would be so easy to swallow! So simple to ease his thirst! And surely, he said reasonably to himself, his eyes closed against the thirst, swishing the water back and forth with his cheeks and enjoying the sensation, surely one little drink would be of no real importance... Sputtering and coughing, he floundered out of the lake. That had been a close one. But he had learned something; the thirst was a counter-irritant; already he was fully aware of things that had been tempered and dull even an hour before. The puncture inside his elbow hurt. The nurse had been clumsy with the needle. The denims had chafed his thighs raw -- a poor fit, miserably poor -- and what a joy, he exulted, to be able to realize it. Angela was looking at him suspiciously. "What's the matter with you?" she demanded. "Nothing." "You act -- oh, I don't know. As if the Machine canceled your orders here. As though you were going to get rid of your collar." And even that was not impossible, thought Ryeland. If only he could hold out until somehow, some way there was a chance. He toweled himself dry and said, "Why not? Donderevo did it." "Steve," she scolded, "that's unplanned thinking! I'm disappointed in you. Nobody else can escape the way Donderevo did, and even if you could, your duty to the Plan -- " "Wait a minute." He stopped toweling and turned to look at her. "What did you say? What do you know about Donderevo?" "I know how he escaped. After all, this is where he escaped from." Ryeland heard a ripping sound, and glanced down to see that his hands, without command from his brain, had clenched so tightly on the towel that it had parted. He dropped it to the ground and whispered: A ngela writhed carelessly, angling her head to start the motors that turned her chair away from the sun. She frowned thoughtfully, then said, "Well, I don't suppose it would do any harm. You can't possibly duplicate his escape. No one can." "Angela! How did he do it?" "Not by any method you can follow, Steve." Her smile teased him. "He found a group on the staff here who could be tempted into unplanned thinking -- and he tempted them, with talk of space outside the Plan. He managed to corrupt them, with promises of freedom and wealth in the reefs of space. He bribed them to remove his collar -- surgically." "Huh?" "The thing was expertly planned, she said. "The disloyal surgeons forged the requisitions, and issued false documents. Donderevo was called out of the lineup one morning, exactly in the ordinary way. In one operating theater, he was disassembled, down to the head and the spine. All the parts were rushed into the adjoining theater -- and put back together, without the iron collar. "But don't go getting any ideas," she warned him. "Because the plot was eventually discovered. The surgeons who had participated were w promptly junked. Unfortunately, by that time Donderevo had escaped." "How did he get away?" "That was the most important part," she said. "You see, the surgeons made a rather ingenious effort to cover their tracks. They used junk parts to assemble a complete patchwork man inside the collar. This junk man took Donderevo's place, until it was too late to trace him." Ryeland shivered in the warm sunshine. That method of escape seemed gruesomely drastic, even if it had been open to him, which it was not. "Let's do something more amusing," Angela urged him. "There's one more thing I want to know." He looked at her, caught with an unpleasant fascination. "How did you happen to know all this?" She stretched her torso lazily in the sunshine, with a slow, graceful, serpentine movement. "I suppose I can tell you, Steve." She smiled at him confidentially. "Alter all, it's no secret between us that I once worked for the Plan Police. The fact is that I first came here on the Donderevo case. It was not broken until I had managed to persuade one of the guilty surgeons to use the same method to help me escape." She yawned, smiling with a feline satisfaction. "If you came here as a spy, why are you -- " He stopped, feeling a horrified embarrassment. 'Why am I still here? Don't be ashamed to ask that, Steve. I'm here because by the time I finished my task I was -- well -- as you see me. Naturally the Plan could not divert resources for my sake... so... I was declared surplus. Oh, I won't deny it disturbed me a little, at first. But I came to accept it. And you will too, Steve. You see, you have no other choice." A ccept the fate he would not, though he was powerfully tempted. A rain shower in the middle of the night woke him and he ran out, careless that he woke his cabin mates and left them staring, to find a standpipe under the eaves and drink, drink, drink. It gave him the strength he needed. The next morning he could see a difference. He held out his hand before him and it shook. It shook! He was nervous. He was also very hungry. Water was not, for the moment, a problem. He had found a jug that would do and carefully filled it from the drain of a dozen roofs. It tasted of zinc and tar. But he was off the drug... And hungry. Pie did not dare to eat in the commissary. Oporto came to see him at breakfast and that little dark face missed nothing. "Not hungry, Steve?" Ryeland pushed aside his untouched plate -- ham hash! lovely, irresistible coffee! -- and said, "No. I'm not hungry." Later, in the hut of the Dixie Presidents, Oporto still tagging along, the little man pointed IF at the jug of rain water. "What's that?" "It's water. In case I get thirsty," said Ryeland, allowing himself a small drink. Oporto's face remained thoughtful. Ryeland found a sense of doom pressing in on him, a fear that dried his mouth and bothered his digestion -- damaged already by the curious nature of the few substances he dared eat. He enjoyed it. He welcomed the flutterings of terror between his shoulderblades. He looked around him at the other cadavers of Heaven, and they were zombies, dead-alive, the victims of asphodel. They laughed and smiled and walked about (when they had what was needful to walk with), but they were dead men. Not Ryeland. He was alive, and in a panic. And very hungry. He managed to shake Oporto just before the second shape-up, and seized time to study some of the entries in the journal: Oct. #. The only examination given to the discarded parts in the trash pile is visual. They are under the observation of a guard stationed on the watch balcony of the North Clinic. Sometimes he isn't there, but I do not know vhy. Nov. #. Today I was in the North Clinic on the fifth floor, where the guard is stationed. I found out why he is sometimes absent, I think. Twice he was called in to help move patients; apparently this is part of his job. Since I was strapped to the table with a spinal tap I couldn't watch closely, but it seems evident that each time he is called inside he will remain there for at least half a minute, and that the periods at which he is most likely to be called are those when the operation schedule is heavy. Probably the three hours or so following each shape-up would be the best time. The morning and lunch shape-ups are no good. First, I would not be able to conceal my absence for more than a couple of hours; second, they don't usually dump the scraps until night anyway. That leaves only the night. Unfortunately not much operating is done then... Today it was the left leg, including the femur. Dec. #. Unusually heavy callouts at the shape-up this morning. The rumor is that there was a nuclear explosion in Baja California and a great many spare parts will be needed. I wonder. Tonight? Ryeland turned the page, hut he already knew what he would find. The next entry was the last. It had been close for D.W.H., but not quite close enough. H unger was beginning to prey on him seriously. His system began to refuse the sugar. Operto was openly suspicious now. He walked with Ryeland all over Heaven. Down by the palmfringed lake he sat with his back against a boulder and watched Ryeland grimly hurling rocks at the hanging coconuts. Ryeland did not succeed in knocking one down, but he did, after visiting a few clumps of palms, find one that had fallen. guess you like coconut milk a lot," Oporto said sulkily, seeing how greedily Ryeland hammered off the outer husk and bashed in the shell. "I love it." Actually the nut was overripe, and the milk had a foul taste. "Tastes good with garlic, huh?" Oporto was referring to some wild roots Ryeland had found, dark green spears thrusting out of the grass with a cluster of muddy little strong-favored knobs underground; Oporto had found him nibbling them experimentally. Ryeland said: "Leave me alone, will you? I -- ah -- don't feel very well," Oporto sighed. "Fm not surprised." But he wandered away after a while. Ryeland dismissed him from his mind. He felt weak and starved. It was only psychological, he told himself; why, shipwrecked mariners had lasted for months and years on little more than what he had so easily come by! But they had not, it was true, been subjected to the thrice-daily temptation of a loaded table from which they dared not eat. And there was another consideration. He looked longingly at the little fish in the lake, for example. He could easily catch one. What was to stop him from broiling it over a fire? But he had already attracted enough attention, he dared no more. Surely the guardians of Heaven would know what to do with a cadaver who had stumbled on the necessity of avoiding their drugs. Once they found one such it would be only a name on the shape-up list, a needle in the arm, and all the drug his system could absorb thrust into him at one moment. Will power would not help him then. Yet he could not avoid suspicion entirely, not as long as he continued to reject the all but irresistable food of Heaven. Already he was concerned over his mates in the Dixie Presidents, not to mention Angela Zwick and, above all, Oporto, whose behavior was no longer suspicious but sure. There was no doubt; Oporto knew. T he next morning he got away . from the others and scouted the periphery of Heaven. Reluctantly he decided that what everyone said was true; the fence was impassable. It would have to be the garbage heap. The leftover bits from the cadavers in Heaven were deposited in a stainless steel sump next the North Clinic. The pit was empty at this hour; it had been sluiced clean, its tons of abandoned humanity chuted into a barge and towed away. The hot sun had baked it gleaming. It was surrounded by a wire fence, and that in turn screened by red-flowered bougainvillea bushes. Ryeland wondered if the fence were electrified. Probably not... It would, he thought, be wise to make his bid for freedom soon. The quicker he tried, the more likely that he would retain all his parts. Even IF now, he saw, there was some sort of activity going on; guards were on the roof of the North Clinic, working around what looked like searchlight projectors. Ryeland scowled. If they flooded the garbage heap with light, that would make things more difficult. Still, the projectors were peculiar; they had reflectors but no lenses, and they seemed to be rather small for the task involved. Ryeland crossed his fingers. Perhaps they would be for some other use entirely. He could only hope. "Sdeve! Sdeve Ryeland!" a familiar voice called loudly. It was Oporto -- shouting, waving, smiling. Ryeland waited, suddenly wary. How had the little man known he would be here? And what was this sudden excitement in his manner? Oporto was sniffling, almost quivering. "Whad a mess, hey, Steve? You hear about id?" "About what?" "Another tube collabze! Eighdeen hundred people this time. You know whad I think? Sabodage. Thad's whad I think." Ryeland shook his head. He was not feeling over-friendly to the little man; he was still wary. Still, there was the chance that Oporto knew something, even here, cut off from the world as they all were. "Sabotage by whom?" "Anti-Plan elemends," Oporto explained cheerfully. "They've been happeding all over the world, you know. Thousands dead! Commudication wrecked!" He glanced over his shoulder, smiled, and said quite loudly: "Or don'd you think so, Steven Ryeland?" Ryeland's nostrils flared; he smelled danger. He looked where Oporto had glanced, and saw what Oporto had seen. Three big men in the white uniforms, coming toward them with purpose. He understood why Oporto had spoken his name so loudly; and the little man nodded, quite unabashed. "Yes, Steve. Judas Isgariot, thad's my other name." T he guards looked as though they were spoiling for a touch of resistance from him. He didn't offer it. He let them take him to the clinic, and when the needle was presented to his arm he stared at it without emotion. The shot was painless enough, even though he knew what it was. It was asphodel again, but this time he was ready for it "Don't give us any more trouble, Zero-Dome," growled the guard, and released him at the gate of the clinic. Ryeland's body responded at once to the shot. He accepted it; it was warmly comforting; it would not matter now. He almost laughed out loud. He could not feel betrayed by Oporto, even; Oporto could no longer commit betrayal; he was no longer trusted. And meanwhile... Ryeland could eat! There was a guard brooding over the tables assigned to the Dixie Presidents at lunch. Ryeland conscientiously gorged himself on roast pork and sweet potatoes, with three cups of coffee. It tasted very good. Why not? It didn't matter any more. Meprobamate is not a narcotic; it doesn't keep you from thinking. It only eases jitters -- that sovereign incentive to action! -- and for Ryeland the vvorrying fear had already served its purpose. He had his plan. He would carry it out that night, if he could; the next night certainly. He recognized quite calmly that, now that Oporto had told the guards he was avoiding food, he would no longer serve any purpose by not eating; they would pick him up and inject him. All right. It didn't matter, nothing mattered, he was on his way out. He could hardly wait for sundown and escape. It was time, too. There were heavy callouts that day. Ryeland's bunkmate had gone at breakfast and had not returned by lunch -- wouldn't ever return, now, said the wise old heads; if you didn't come back by the next shape-up, you weren't coming back at all. Five names were called at noon. At dinner, seven more -- why, thought Ryeland through his comfortable haze of meprobamate, that left only three in the entire cottage who had not been called for some donation that day, and Ryeland was one of them. Clearly he was pushing his luck. After the evening shape-up he looked one last time around Heaven and strolled away. Just in time. For as he was almost out of earshot in the gathering dark, a whiteclad guard came down the shell path. Ryeland paused, listening. "Ryeland," the guard was saying, and something with the word "clinic." Rumble-rumble; the bass voice of one of the few survivors of the Dixie Presidents, answering. "Oh." The guard again, not very interested. "Well, when he turns up, tell him to report. She can wait." Ryeland hid himself in the night What they wanted with him he could not know; but he was very sure that his time was even shorter than he had thought. But who was the "she" who could wait? Angela? He could hardly think so, but -- well, why not go to see her? If it turned out to be Angela, who had somehow inveigled a guard into being messenger-boy for her, there was no reason he should not find out why. If it turned out not to be her... he was surely all the better off for being as far as possible from the cabin of the Dixie Presidents. I t wasn't Angela. She was completely ignorant of why the guard had been looking for him, and completely disinterested. Uneasily, keeping an alert eye open for any possible guard who might come their way, he sat down beside her in the warm tropical evening. More to see what she would say than to relieve his feelings, he told her about Oporto's reporting him to the guards and his consequent new dose of tranquilizer. "Very right of him, Steve. You shouldn't go against the Plan!" He shook his head ruefully. can't understand you," he admitted. "To work for the Plan -- yes. That's duty. But to betray a friend -- " He stopped, and looked quickly at her, but she only laughed. "I know, Steven. But you're wrong. Do you remember what I was doing when we first met?" IF "Running a computer." "That's right! And we would set up problems -- oh, enormous problems. I loved that job, Steven! And the computer would solve them, onetwo, click-click, ting-a-ling! It could do it without fail; well, it was part of the Plan, you see. Only one unit in the master Plan of Man that the Machine itself runs. Do you know why it was never wrong?" "You tell me," he growled. She was so calm! "Because we tested it!" she cried. "There was a special test-circuit switch. After a big problem we'd send a charge -- oh, five times normal voltage! -- through every last tube and transistor and relay. If anything was going to fail, it would fail then -- and we'd know -- and we could replace it. And... well, Steven," she said, quite serious, "that's what I am, you see. I'm a test charge." She leaned forward against the high restraining chair-rms that kept her limbless body from toppling, "You can't be allowed to fail the Plan!" she cried. "You must be found if you are weak... and replaced. Oporto and I, we have one purpose under the Plan of Man: to find and report the bad tubes. Did I trick you? I don't know; is the excess voltage flushing out a computer a 'trick?' You were a bad tube. Admit it, Steven; you could fail. You did fail! And the Machine is better without you!" Ryeland paced about. The girl watched him solemnly, her eyes large and compassionate. He said after it lops your arms and legs off? "Then you're crazier than Opor to!" he roared. "The Machine is a monster! The Plan of Man is a hoax!" She refused to be shocked. reminded him. enslaved!" "Do you have another way!" He scowled. "I don't know. Maybe -- out in the Reefs of Space -- " "The Reefs of Space are no longer of any importance to you, my dear. Just like Ron Donderevo. Oh, he was a real man -- and mayba there are Reefs, I don't know. But there's nothing there for us." She moved her head, and the obedient wheels brought her closer to him. "And is it so bad, Steven? Being slaves? I know you have ideals -- I respect you for them, truly I do! But this is a matter of life and death for Mankind. And isn't it true that, for almost all of us, under the Plan of Man there is happiness?" He laughed shortly. "It comes hi the drinking water!" "All of it?" She leaned back lazily, looking at him with candid hug eyes. "What about me, Steven. Don't you want me?" It caught him off-guard. He flushed. "I -- I don't know what -- " "Because I'm here, Steven," she went on softly. "If you wanted me. I'm here. And I'm helpless; I can't resist you." He swallowed. "You -- Yoa could scream for help. The guards would -- Damn your He leaped away from her. "I'll never forgive you that, Angela! You've dragged me down to your level, haven't you? But you can't do the same trick again!" She said, calm, real regret in her voice, "I don't know what you mean, dear." And after a moment Ryeland realized that there was truth in what she said. She meant it; she was his to take, if he chose, and she would not have blamed him. He said brutally: "You're a high-voltage test circuit, Angela, yes, indeed! But you've already burned me once. I don't intend for it to happen again!" There was no longer any doubt of what he had to do in his mind. He was inside a wall; well, a wall had two sides. He would reach that other side! Perhaps he would be alive; more likely he would be a cadaver, stripped of useful parts. But he would reach it. Because... because, he thought, on the other side of that wall were many things. There was freedom -- maybe -- in the Reefs of Space. There was, perhaps, the man who knew how to remove collars. And there was Donna Creery. A bruptly he turned to Angela again, surprised at his own thought of the Planner's daughter, most dangerous of directions. He said, "I -- I didn't mean -- " "Don't apologize, Steve. You of all people -- " He became conscious that she bad stopped in the middle of a thought. "What were you going to say?" "Oh... Nothing. Nothing much. Just that..." "Angela!" he said angrily. "You've always kept secrets from me! Please don't keep on with it -- not here! Now, what were you going to say? Something about me 'of all people'? Am I any different from other people?" Her wide, lovely eyes studied him serenely .Then she said: "Don't you know that you are?" Her cool regard made him uncomfortable. He had to gulp before he could ask what she meant. "Haven't you been aware of anything strange about yourself?" He was about to shake his head, when something froze him. He recalled the riddle of the three days he had lost. Suddenly he remembered a ime when he thought he had heard her voice, from the dark outside the circle of pitiless light that blazed down on the therapy couch, before she had sacrificed her limbs to the Plan. "You must have noticed that you are different, Steve," her soft voice taunted him. "Have you ever wondered why?" For a moment he wanted to strike her. The iron collar was suddenly tighter around his neck, so tight that he could scarcely breathe, so tight that he felt the veins throbbing at his throat. He sat numb and silent, staring at her. "Did you think you were human?" Her voice was contemptuous, merciless. "I thought you might guess, when I was telling you how DonIF derevo got away. You are the junk man." "Junk -- what?" The hair stood up at the nape of his neck. He shuddered in the sun. The collar was heavier than lead, colder than ice. "I told you that a thing waa patched together out of waste parts. A decoy for the guards to watefa while Donderevo got away. Well, Steve, that's what you are." He sat still, breathing carefully through the cruel constriction of the collar. "If you're good-looking, Steve, that's because the surgeons were trying to put together a reasonable likeness of Ron Donderevo, who was a handsome man. If you dislike the Plan, it is because your brain and your glands were patched together from what was left of several of its most distinguished enemies. If you have an unusual mastery of helical field theory, it is because one lobe of your brain belonged to the man who invented it. If the rest of your memory is somewhat blurred or contradictory, it is because the rest of your brain waa stuck together from odds and ends of tissue." "No!" he whispered hoarsely. That can't be true -- " But the collar choked off hia voice. He felt weak and numb with a hideous feeling that it could be true. "If I was ever here before," he argued desperately, "I can't remember anything about it." That goes to prove it." Angela's slow smile was innocently sweet. "The men who assembled you were research scientists, as well as enemies of the Plan. They had been using bits of waste brain tissue in efforts to improve upon nature. When they were putting your brain together, they seized the opportunity to create a mental mechanism dangerous to the plan." Dazed, he could only shake his head. 'There's proof enough, if you don't believe me," she said. Xook at all your feats of sabotage. The subtrain tubes and fusion reactions and ion-drive accelerators that you have demolished with your fnproved designs -- " Agony wrenched him. don't remember -- " "That's the final perfection of your mental mechanism," she said calmly. "The disloyal surgeons equipped your new brain with a self-erasing circuit, to protect you from any temptation to reveal your secrets under torture. Aren't you aware of the blank in your past?" "I -- I am," Shuddering, he nodded. "That's all you are." A lazy malice glinted in her smile. "All the special attention that you have been receiving for the past three years is proof that you functioned remarkably well as a sabotage device, but your function has been performed. I suppose you are setting some sort of precedent, now that all your organs are about to be salvaged for the second time. But in spite of that, Steve, I can't help feeling that you are trying to carry your head a little too high. Actually, you're nothing more than a hundred and sixty pounds of bait that those traitors filched from the sharks." S hark meat! If that was all he was, then this was the place for him! Ryeland lurked in a clump of the bougainvilleas near the garbage pit, watching the guards on the roof, while the sun went down and the sky purpled and the stars began to find pockets in the cloud cover through which they could appear. The searchlights -- or whatever -- were not turned on. Numbed, Ryeland watched and tried not to think. That was one less worry. Still, there were guards on the roof; he would have to wait until it was darker. The guards were idly looking out over Heaven to the sea. It was a warm night, a fine tropic night. But what was before him was an ugly spectacle. It was odd, Ryeland thought dreamily, that the Plan of Man permitted itself this touch of natural human horror. The world was so cuddled in cotton batting, so insulated against shock, that it would seem this sight should have been hidden away. Before him lay some tons of meat and bone -- amputated, exsanguinated, raped of corneal tissue and bone grafts, of healthy arterial sections and snips of nervous tissue. What had been taken from the pale cold cadavers behind the fence was that mere nothing, life. What remained was good organic matter. And that was another queer thing, thought Ryeland. It would have been a superb animal feed! Or, if on this one point the Plan of Man had reason to be tender, why, how many thousands of acres of minedout farmland could be rejuvenated with the protein and phosphate In those corpses? The Plan did not choose to use them in that way. Each night the accumulated parts were chuted to a barge -- the barge towed out to sea -- the contents given the deep six. Fish, crabs, drifting jellies and moored bivalves would ingest their flesh. Why? Men would eat the fish; why not shorten the chain? Ryeland shifted uneasily, and turned his thought, away -- for, if Angela told the truth, from this sort of rubble his own body had been built... Anyway, it was almost time. There was a murmur of publicaddress speakers from the cottage areas. He couldn't hear the words, but it was unusual for them to be used at all so late at night. Then another cluster of speakers spoke up -- nearer, this time. It sounded as though a name were being called. Ryeland swore under his breath. The sentry nearest him stood rigid as the Machine itself, gazing out over Heaven. Couldn't he at least take a break, stretch, yawn, gaze at the stars -- couldn't he do anything but remain alert and watchful at his post? The loudspeakers again. It was the circuit around the lake, Ryeland guessed. And the tone was becoming irritable, as though the guard in his microphone room atop the Clinic was being annoyed by higher authority... and was passing hii annoyance on to the cadavers of Heaven. Then closer still; and Ryeland heard the name this time. His own name. '"Ryeland!" Only it came bouncing off half a dozen speaker! at once, each delayed a tiny fraction of a second by distance and echo: cheting away. He was not surprised; he had been more than half expecting it. He listened to the measured words, cadenced to let the echo of each fade before the next word was spoken: "You... are... ordered... to... report... to... the... South... Clinic... at... once!" And off toward the lake Ryeland could see lights moving. Ryeland took a deep breath. He would have to chance it, even if the guard did not look away -- He caught himself, poised. The guard moved. He turned his head and nodded, to someone out of sight; and then, so quickly that Ryeland might scarcely have noticed he was gone if his eyes had not been glued to the man, the guard stepped inside. Ryeland ran, climbed, swung him self over the fence, ripped off his clothes, balled and hid them under a body and flung himself, naked and acrawl with revulsion, onto the heap of pale, cold corpses. T here was classic terror. It wm like the buried-alive man of humanity's oldest, most frightening story: the awakening in the narrow box, the dark, the smell of damp earth, the hollow muffled sound of the hammered coffin lid with six feet of graveyard dirt above. It uas like the war wounded given up for dead, awakening in one of Grant's wagons after Shiloh, or the mass graves of Hiker's Sixth Army outside Stalingrad -- the dead all around, the man himself as good as dead. Ryeland thanked God for meprobamate. He lay face down and limbs under him, as much as he could. No reason to make a guard wonder why a relatively intact corpse should be on the heap. He did not move. He smelled an acrid, sour reek that nearly made him vomit and he was, in a moment, bitter cold. He swore silently. It had not occurred to him that the metal walls of the trashbin would be refrigerated. He waited. And waited. He dared not look up, dared hardly breathe. It would be, he calculated, at least a matter of hours before the bin would tip and chute its contents into the barge. His flesh crawled and tried desperately to shiver, but he would not allow it. A bright light flared. Ryeland froze. He heard a murmur of voices. But that was all right; it probably was time for changing the shift of guards, and that was good, because it meant time was passing even faster than he had dared hope. The light would be only a routine inspection, of course... Another light flared, and another. The area of corpses was flooded with light, he was drowning in light; over him he could hear the wash of copter vanes adding their light to the scene. He dared not move. He dared not even blink, though the lights were cruel; but it was in vain; everything was in vain. There was a sudden string of orders and a commotion at the steel ladder that admitted workmen to the sump. Four guards ran in. They did not hesitate; they picked their way rapidly across the stainless-steel floor, stepping on torsos, pushing limbs aside. Straight to Ryeland. "Good try," one of them grinned. Then, without humor, "But don't do it again." They hurried him to the ladder and up it. They had not allowed him to retrieve his clothes. Now that it was too late his body was racked with shivering. He si.tmmcred, "How -- how did you know?" The guard caught his elbow and lifted him to the roof of the North Clinic. He was not unkind. He gestured to the row of searchlight-like things that Ryeland had feared might be floodlights. "Infrared scanners, Ryeland. Sniffed out your body heat. Oh, you can fool them -- but not while you're alive, not without clothes on to hide your heat. And clothes would have given you away anyhow," he added compassionately, "so don't feel bad. You just didn't have a chance." He opened a door and shoved Ryeland, reeling, into a hall of the Clinic. "Now get a move on. Somebody wants you. Somebody important." ir IF  Short Story They made one little mistake -- very natural -- and disastrous! T he male silth plodded forward wearily at sixty miles an hour, pausing only long enough to uproot and wolf down one of the rare scrub trees directly in its path. Its three hundred tons of massive body shook the ground as the great hind legs thumped along, and every cell of it ached with hunger. It was warm blooded, despite its vaguely reptilian appearance. Only meat could satisfy its need for energy. But the great herds lay a thousand miles to the north of this barren land. Inside the silth, the two-pound network of converted nerve cells that was Arnek brooded darkly in self-pity and resentment against the inflexible female logic of his mate. Ptarra had won her point, as she always did; now she might at least have shown some consideration for him and his silth! "Amek!" The call came sharply on one of the guard frequencies of the mental spectrum. "Arnek, stop lagging and get up herel" He could feel his nerve body tense from horn tip to tail root, but he stifled his response and quickened his pace. Ahead, the trail left by Ptarra's legs led through a gully and up a rise to the lip of a small, stony basin. The four hundred tons of Ptarra's female silth squatted below the edge and the great head was half hidden as it peered downward around a boulder, "Quiet!" Ptarra ordered sharply. Then, as Arnek switched from a thudding run to a smooth, creeping approach, the mental impulse took on a note of triumph. "Look down there and then teU me I don't know a ship trail from a meteor!" The bowl was bright in the glare of the orange sunlight, but at first Arnek saw nothing. Then, as his gaze swept back toward the nearer section, he blinked his great eyes, only half believing what they registered. It was a small thing, hardly taller than Arnck's silth -- maybe not even as tall. But it was too regular and obviously artificial, a pointed cylinder, to be a meteorite. Between two of the base fins there seemed to be an opening, with a miniature ramp leading down to the ground. It looked like a delicately precise model of a spaceship from the dawn of time. It was obviously too small to be more than a message carrier. Yet, as he looked more closely, he could see motion. Two tiny creatures, not more than six feet in height, were scurrying around near the base. Bright patches of fur or decoration covered them, and they seemed to move on two of their four limbs. A rnek shivered down the length of his nerves with an ancient distaste for crawling things. "Let's go back," he suggested uneasily. "There's nothing here for us, and I'm hungry." "Don't be silly," Ptarra answered, and the old female superiority was strong in the thought. "Of course it's too small for us; I knew that when I saw the landing trail yesterday evening. It must be an instrument probe, with test animals. If it has telemetering equipment, though -- " Arnek tested the three spectra uneasily. At this distance, even a tight beam should be detectable. But he could feel nothing. There was only the steady wash of inertiagravitic wavules, the electromagnetic noise from the sun and the growing, contemptuous mental leakage from Ptarra. Then he squirmed in embarrassment as his eyes detected the cracked base of the little ship. Obviously, it had landed hard -- probably hard enough to ruin instruments and release the two creatures. He should have noticed that at once. There was no time to admit his error, however. Ptarra's silth lunged upright and the great rear legs began pulping ground and rocks in a full charge. Arnek leaped to follow out of old hunting habit. On a downgrade, his lighter silth soon caught up with the other. Below, the two humans swung IF around at the earth-shaking thunder of the charge and started a frantic scrambling. They were making shrill sounds now, and the extreme low band of the mental spectrum held faint impulses. Ptarra's thoughts lashed against his nerves. "Cut them off! Don't let them back to the probe. They may have destruct conditioning." In the hunt, Amck had long since become only an extension of his dominant mate. Now he folded his forelegs and dropped his head and neck into a javelin aimed between humans and ships. The smaller of the two was almost at the ramp. At the last moment, moved by a sudden impulse, Arnek dropped his head lower and retracted his neck to soften the blow. He felt the human midge strike against his snout and go caromming off, to land fifty feet away. Dim pain impulses stirred in the low mental background. Anger -- or something like it -- came from the other creature. Arnek braked and pivoted sharply. The larger human had run forward toward the bloodied smaller figure. But as the silth's head faced the creature, one of the human's arms darted to something strapped about its middle. There was a surprising blast of sound. A stream of tiny, exploding pellets struck against Arnek's snout. He bellowed in annoyance and took a step forward, lifting a foreleg to swat at the midge. It jerked back. Then it darted forward, bending to lift its companion in its forelimbs. Either the gravity here was less than on its home world, or the thing was stronger than it looked. The first leap sent the burdened human backwards more than twenty feet. Then it was bounding off in frantic efforts to reach the further side of the depression where a jumble of rocks might give it cover. There was amusement in Ptarra's thoughts. "If your hunger is so great, why didn't you eat them? They aren't much, of course, but the blood smells sweet enough." Arnek sighed along his nerves, unable to answer. Let Ptarra put it down to another male whim if she liked, but he hadn't thought of eating them before. There had been something cute and pathetic about them. They reminded him of the little gulla he had owned in his youth, in a longlost, ruined universe. "It had a weapon," he commented, changing the subject. Ptarra rumbled an assent. "I noticed. Interesting conditioning. The probe builders must have superb nerve development to do that to the lower orders. They'll make good silths... Now let's see what we can find in the probe." S he slipped a claw into the base opening and began working it upwards as delicately as the clumsy foreleg would permit. Arnek moved forward to help, but she waved him back impatiently, and he waited meekly until she finished. She was right, of course. As a male, he had no training with mechanisms. He would only have IF mined whatever lay inside. It was a marvelously delicate set of machinery... thought the theory behind the engineering seemed rather elementary. Arnek studied what he could of it, growing more puzzled. "Maybe the creatures operated it," he suggested. "What makes you think so?" "I don't know. It just seems somehow -- " "Intuition!" Ptarra snorted. Then she seemed less certain. "Yet I can't blame you this time. It does almost look that way. But it's logically impossible. Besides, there are automatic controls for guiding the probe. The builders probably just amused themselves, the way we once put slurry-pods in the gulla pens. Ah, this looks sound enough!" She pulled a tiny box out of the wreckage that had been spread out flat on the ground. With infinite care, she managed to hook one claw over a miniature control. Almost immediately, radio waves began forming a recurrent pattern along their nerves, coming in long and short pulses. Half an hour later, there was another faint quiver of radio waves from space, this time completely modulated. Even Arnek could realize that it was on the same frequency, but dopplered to indicate something approaching their world. He stopped browsing for the few stunted trees and came back to join his mate. Night was just falling. Ptarra led them back toward the rock ledge from which they had first spied the probe. There was a large fissure in the rocks into which they could just squeeze, and which would hide them from the sight of any landing craft. A moon came up, and they could see the depression clearly in its light. Now Arnek saw the larger human slipping across the ground toward the wreck of the probe. It darted about frantically, but with an appearance of purpose. A few moments later, it was retreating, carrying a load of packages with it. "It seems almost intelligent," he said softly. He strained to follow the faint wash of impressions on the lower band. There was something there that struck a familiar chord in his thoughts, but he could not decode it. "Just instinct," Ptarra dismis.sed it with cool logic. "A female seeking food for its injured mate." Arnek sighed uncomfortably. "It doesn't seem female," he objected. "Another hunch? Don't be silly, Arnek. It has to be a female. The larger, stronger and more intelligent form is always female. How else could it care for the young? It needs ability for a whole family, while the male needs only enough for himself. The laws of evolution are logical or we wouldn't have evolved at all." There was no answer to such logic, other than the vague discontent Arnek felt. And he knew that was only because of his envy of the greater ability of the other sex. He settled back, ruminating hungrily and listening to the signal from space. The little box from the wreck was silent now, but the other signals were stronger. Ptarra nodded. 'They're coming. After four hundred years, we have a chance. New silths to breed. A chance to reproduce ourselves and multiply. A new universe for our own," There was immense satisfaction with self in her thoughts. "Well, I earned it!" A rnek could not deny it. It had been more than four hundred years in this galaxy. Eight thousand of them had set out, leaving behind a small, ancient universe being wrecked by the horror of an exploding supernova. They had been driven out from the planetary consought refuge across intergalactic space to this universe. A hundred of the marvelously adapted silths of their universe had survived the eons of suspended animation to preserve their occupants. And then had come the hunt for new silth forms, since the trip had aged the others beyond the power of reproduction, in spite of all their precautions. Finding a silth form was never easy. There had been only three animals that had served in their entire old galaxy. Only a creature with several pounds of nerve tissues could hold the nuclear proteins of the sentient annas. And that required huge creatures, since nerve tissue was always so thinly scattered in normal flesh. They had toured a quadrant of the new galaxy, studying planet after planet, before they found this world. Here the great beasts were barely sufficiently endowed with nerve fiber. Eight annas had survived this far. Six failed to stand the shock of entry and regrowth in the new silth forms. Now there was only the one pair -- Arnek and Ptarra, Left to himself, Arnek would have perished long ago. Their hope of retraining the clumsy forelegs of the silth forms had proved futile, and the nerve capacity was too low for them to exercise their full faculties. The converted nuclei of the cells was never quite efficient, either. And there seemed no hope of ever reproducing their own. Certainly no newly budded anna could survive the metamorphosis into these awkward bodies; that had been almost impossible for mature powers. Nor could a young anna survive long without a silth. Four iiundred years! And now -- now, he thought, he was tired. It no longer mattered. His home lay in ruins eons away. Let Ptarra worry about it. He twisted his neck back to put his snout under his tail and tried to sleep, while hunger rumbled noisily in his stomach. The sun was glaring down again when he awoke to the nudging of Ptarra's snout, and there was a roaring in the air above. Something rushed downwards, bellowing out thrust against gravity. It was another ship, landing over the wreckage of the first. But it was no monster such as might have carried new and better silth forms. It was hardly larger than the first, though it somehow IF seemed to be better made. It landed smoothly and squatted on the ground, sending out signals. "Another probe," Ptarra said. There was disappointment in her thoughts, quickly masked by cold logic. "Naturally, they'd wait to check with something like this. There will probably be several probes before they decide they have to investigate personally. All rightl We'll give them something to worry about." She was lunging to her feet, just as an opening appeared in the ship. This time something ran out, down the ramp -- a tiny gadget of churning tracks and metal carapace, chuffing out shrill little motor sounds. It circled briefly and then headed across the bowl. "Stop it," Ptarra ordered. "It may have a camera, so don't waste time. The less the builders learn about us, the better." Arnek took off. His hunger had so far failed to weaken him, and he was covering the ground at two hundred miles an hour before the little vehicle had picked up a tenth of that speed. At the last moment, it seemed to be aware of him. There was a wash of mental shock and confusion. Then his snout hit the car in a sideswipe that tossed it fifty feet to land on its back. He lumbered forward to squash it, then hesitated. An opening had appeared and two of the tiny humans were staggering out. One was supporting the other. At sight of him, both stopped in shock. For a second, they stood rooted to the ground. Then the larger one began a clumsy effort at running, half carrying the other. Blood left a trail behind them. Arnek could have squashed them with a single trust of his leg. But he stood irresolutely, observing the garments and headgear they wore, remembering his youth and a gulla draped with a ribbon and bells. They were heading for the rocks nearest them, a long way from where the first two had found refuge. For a second, he felt impelled to turn them and drive them toward the others. Then a wave of amusement from Ptarra checked him. "They'd never reach that far," she called. "They can't survive the crash of their vehicle. Let them go." A rnek felt the faint, murky mental signals so low on the band, and he knew Ptarra was right. They were staggering now, and the smaller one seemed to be only partly conscious. He sighed and scooped up the groimd car, carrying it back to Ptarra. This time his mate was making no effort to rip the ship apart. She was staring through one of the tiny ports, trying to fit her great eye against it. And she seemed uncertain. Finally she took the ground car and began dismantling it, looking for automatic or remote controls. There were none. "Maybe the creatures operated it -- and the ship," Arnek said. He expected the same reaction the remark had drawn before. This time Ptarra showed no amusement. Her great head shook in puzzlement. "About one time in ten thousand a crazy male hunch comes true," she muttered. "Intuition! It's against all logic. But there are only manual controls here. Where are those silly creatures?" The two that had arrived last were pitifully exposed, just within an opening in the rocks. It was a shallow space, hopeless to defend. The smaller one lay supine, but the larger human faced the two silths, holding his pitiful weapon, and waited grimly until they were almost within reach. This time the explosive pellets were aimed for their eyes. Ptarra dropped her eyelids, swearing as the missiles stung. She reached in with a short foreleg. There was a single shrill cry and the sound of the weapon striking against a rock; the low band was suddenly quiet. Arnek heard a soft gulp. When he looked, the larger human was gone. A sudden shock ran through Ptarra's thoughts. Her great eyes blinked and a huge tongue ran over her lips. "Nerve fiber!" Her shout covered the entire spectrum. "Arnek, there arc pounds of nerve fiber in the creature! High grade -- better than that in these silth forms. As good as that in any silth. Here, give me the other." She didn't wait for Arnek's help, however. She dragged the corpse out and began working as delicately ms the silth body would permit. Her mental signals were a blur. Then she stopped, staring down at what she held. "There -- a cavity in the head, filled with nerve fibers. There must be three pounds there alone. What freak of evolution would put them all together in such a vulnerable spot? And yet, there's a certain efficiency about it. It isn't logical -- and yet it is." Abruptly, the evidence was gone. "Come on," she ordered. Arnek sighed, and his stomach rumbled a protest. But he ignored it. "What good is it? We surely can't make a silth out of a tiny thing like that?" "Why not?" Contempt for male thought was mixed with smug satisfaction for her own. "We don't use the other cells anyhow. Oh, there will be difficulties. They may be short-lived. But with such high grade fiber, we can risk infiltrating a new one as often as we need. There should be enough of them. They probably have half a dozen to a litter twice a year, like most small live on a single planet. And since they're colonizing other worlds like this one..." Even Arnek could see the logic behind Ptarra's assumption in that. Colonizing would explain the sending out of a male and female in each ship, with ships spread out days apart. It wasn't the most efficient method, but it usually insured against any major accident. His people had used the same method at times. It all seemed quite logical, but Arnek felt a tension of intuition along his entire nerve network. No anna had ever used a silth capable of independent intelligence. There IF must be something wrong with it. Once they infiltrated the new silth, of course, they could soon convert enough nerves to blank out all control from their carriers. But... "Their weapons," he cried. "Ptarra, in those bodies, we'd be vulnerable to their weapons. And during the ten days we have to hibernate to grow into their nerves, they'd kill us." Ptarra grunted. "Sometimes," she admitted, "you almost think like a female. They would kill us, of course, if we stupidly stayed where later arrivals could find us. Now come on. We've got to chase the creatures around today until they're tired enough to sleep soundly. And don't let them get near that ship, either!" I t was a bitter day for Arnek. His stomach protested, and by the end of the chase, his legs were beginning to weaken. But ahead of them, the two humans were staggering in the light of the setting sun. The smaller was leaning on the larger as they finally found and entered the little cave near the ship that Ptarra had chosen for them long before. Night had fallen before Ptarra was satisfied. The two silths moved forward as softly as they could, but the loud breathing noises went on, and there was no stir of alarm anywhere on the mental band. "Do you remember everything?" Ptarra asked. "You've got to regain consciousness after the first stage. You can do that, if you set your mind to it." "I remember," Arnek agreed wearily. He'd had the whole routine drilled into him repeatedly untill he was sick of it. It was like the horror of having her force him to adapt to this present silth. While he had been ready to accept assimilation, she had fought with him and with her own transformation, refusing to admit even his intuition that their race was ended. Only her cold logic had saved them. He could not deny it now. "Be sure you take the smaller male body," she warned again. "Unless that's the female. You found evolution different in these creatures once," he reminded her. For a moment, she was silent. Then there was a mental shrug, and almost amusement as she answered. "Matching sex isn't logically necessary. It might even be an interesting amusement. But I must have the larger body." She began shifting at once. The silth gasped and tried to thresh about in death as Ptarra released control. Arnek sighed to himself and began to follow. It was worse than he remembered. After the centuries, the cells hated to give up their fixed form. The agony of the silth fed back to him, until his withdrawal stopped its heart. But slowly the nuclear matter flowed from the cells and up the pathways to their egress, taking the minimum of nutrient fluid with them. It took nearly an hour, and he could see the thin film of Ptarra already lying over the sleeping human. He began hurrying now, remembering her warning that the humans would not stay here once they wakened to find the two abandoned silths dead. He forced himself over the hateful dryness of the floor, up to the open mouth. Beyond lay the lungs, the circulatory system, and then the strange nerve bundle in the skull. Some of it was ugly, and some was hard. But the last stage was almost pleasant. He had forgotten how unsatisfactory the nerves of the last silth had been. These were like coming home to a friendly world, in a universe that had died too long ago and far away. For a time, he was almost glad that he had not died with it. Then the first allergic reactions began, and he had to relapse into instinct, to let his being fight to save both himself and his host cells from the reaction. He set the first stage up, however. This time he managed with no help from Ptarra. Then he relapsed into unconsciousness, making no effort to control his new silth yet. He'd have to revise when the silth awoke, he told himself. But it was only a dream order, half completed... I t was a sudden painful pressure of acceleration that finally brought him out of his torpor. He felt half sick, and he could vaguely sense that the new silth was fevered and uncomfortable. But, amazingly, it was sitting up. And around it was a room bigger than the whole ship had seemed, and controls under its hands, and fantastic equipment. "It's about time," Ptarra's thoughts reached him. They were weak now, since it was hard to transmit in a partial stage, but they were cold and sure. "I've been aware for hours, while the silths reached the ship and took off. We've been off planet for at least an hour. Long enough to study their body controls and to learn how the ship operates." Arnek sighed to himself, while the pressure of tension refused to leave. "Are you sure?" "Of course I'm sure! These are primitive machines, and I learned most of it from dismantling the first. They're primitive -- but they're logical enough for understanding. I can even control the silth when she isn't aware." The larger human suddenly moved the controls, then jerked its hand back, staring at it. Words came to the ears of the silth in which Arnek rode. "I'm sick, Luke. I've got the twitches." The words brought stirrings strongly on the low band, almost but not quite understandably. They also brought a vocal reply from the other human. "Be glad you can twitch. Some bug we picked up, but it's metter than being eaten. We're in the clover, kid. Maybe we still cop more cop ships tailing us, but let 'em look. When they find the dinosaurs and what's left of our ship, they'll stop looking. The heat's going to be off! We can get back to Earth in a year or so and really live." Ptarra's thoughts cut through IF Arneks efforts to understand. "Reproduction feelings," she reported in satisfaction. "They must have higher fertility than I hoped if they can think of it while sick." Then her thoughts sharpened. "Take over your si #th!" The human at the board slumped abruptly. Arnek lashed out  from the converted cells, felt a brief protest, and then was alone in the brain of the sillh. He could not yet control it, but it had no independent will. "There is food and water near if we have to rouse from hibernation while we grow into these silths," Ptarra reported. "Now -- help me if you can." Arnek let his weak thoughts blend into hers, trying to give strength as she had often done to him. She was straining her utmost will. Slowly and in jerks, the arm moved across the control board, and clumsy fingers managed to move controls. And at last, from Ptarra's mind, Arnek began to see the plan. There was fuel enough to bring them at maximum speed across an eddy of the galaxy toward the lone sun they had found long before. There a single planet swung in orbit -- a planet with food but ho dangerous animal life. And there they could wait and grow strong, and multiply as their silths multiplied. They could reach it almost as soon as they came out of hibernation finally, and it would be a safe haven in its isolation. There would be no fuel for further travel. But that copld wait, while their numbers grew, and they could restore their lost technology and weapons with the clever hands of the human silths. Then they could take over the galaxy -- ns they had taken the one so long away! The hands fumbled under the limited control, but they moved across the board. And the automatic pilot was finally set and sealed. "Logic!" Arnek thought softly, and there was wonder at a mind like Ptarra's that could achieve such understanding of even alien mechanisms. Yet under it there was still a cold knot of fear along his nerves. Ptarra's thoughts had begun to fade from the strain and the long interruption to her hibernation. But now she caught momentary control again. There was appreciation in them for his praise. And then there was amusement. "Logic," she agreed. "But perhaps intuition isn't too bad for a male. You've been right twice." "Twice?" Arnek asked. He'd been somehow right that the silths controlled their own ships, of course. But... "Twice," Ptarra said. "Fve just realized my silth is a male, as you suggested it might be. Amusing, reversing the sexes, isn't it?" She tried to say something else, but the strain was too much, and full hibernation swept her mind away from that of Arnek. Arnek sat frozen for a time in his silth, knowing that it was also male. Then he turned it somehow to face the lost galaxy where his race had knov'm its day and now entered its # IF  Short Story Anything can happen in the customs lounge -- since they let those Earth people in! T here were usually a few Customs Inspectors in the lounge, waiting to begin their shifts, hanging around trading news and incidents and drinking the bad, lukewarm kasser that was a standing joke in the Immigration-Customs Service. Old Grag was telling for perhaps the eightieth time of a success of his when he young in the Service... They had this small box of sticky, squashy sweets with them. The young one was eating one. Many another inspector would have passed them through, but I thought the young one chewed too much and too loud. So I said, 'Mind if I have one?" " 'Wahl' says they together, 'it would set you on edge, Noble Wise Inspector. It is the taste of another world.' They was Venusers, and they started shifting and hopping around, and humming their national anthem, you know how they used to do back in the old days. I made quite a nice little find. Almost a half-scree of chamfer in each one of those sweets. I got a promotion out of that, and the Venusers got a six-year close out." Inspector Flimp blew one of his noses loudly. "Hee, that's nothing.  recall back when we first opened up for Immigration, and a whole shipload of earthers came in. I'hey were crammed in like tigs in a nest, and as usual they didn't know one word of the language, they didn't have any idea of where to go or how to do anything, and they'd got separated from their controller. They just stood around, huddled together and jabbering at each other. Well, I checked out about twenty of them, and then there comes up this big ugly female. Well, I jacks the elevator up some more, and I looks down at her. " 'Name!' I call. 'Gladdis Cracklegill,' or some other weird earth name she screams at me. 'Too much iV name,' I say. 'You've got enough name there for five of you. Which will you choose, Glad, Is, Crack, El or Giir "Well, it took me a while to make her understand me -- my earth accent wasn't too good then, and she was slow-headed, having only one, like all earthers. But I finally made her understand what I wanted to know, and then, by Clag, what a ramping frowst she did make! "It was while she was screeching at me that I noticed her teeth were pretty big. even for such a huge beast as she was. So I secretly turned on the Dento-Spyer, right into her jaws, and what a sight on the view screen! Each of those big teeth was false and filled to the top with Earth seeds she was trying to smuggle!' "Earthers!" exploded young Nask. "They make me sick!" "I'm with you, Nask," said Inspector Sprim. "And I don't understand why they still keep routing earthers through Immigration anyway. They claim they're a borderline case, but when you've seen as many as I have, you know, which side of the border they're on." N ask went off to the kasser dispenser and his place was taken by Brif, the head Inspector, who had been listening. "Un-edge yourself, Sprim," smiled Brif, contracting one of his heads. "I have good news, rare news and fine news. The Four Council decision just came down to us. Earthers are now to be routed through Livestock instead of Immigration beginning very soon." A cheer went up from the little group of Customs and Immigration officials. The one Livestock Inspector in the lounge groaned in despair. Old Inspector Flimp seemed bothered. "They've made themselves a mistake," he sputtered. "Earthers can be clever and tricky even after they're altered. Why, I seen them pull every trick in the book coming through here. Did I ever tell you about the stunted one with an artificial head who tried to pass himself off as a rest-park planner? Well, it seems that..." Two young, but large inspectors sneaked away from the group when they saw old Flimp was launched into one of his dull yarns again. Outside the lounge, after a quick look up and down the hall, they ducked into the robot-cleaner storage closet. "Boy," gasped the shorter inspector. "I had to get out of there. Besides the torture of listening to that two-headed monster babble on and on about how he outwitted earthers when he was still able to move around, this miserable thing has started to come loose again." He gave an impatient wrench to his left head, and it wobbled enough to expose some of the delicate wires that the earth robotic engineer had labored over so many hours. The other began tightening straps and buckles for him. "There," he said finally. "You look like one of the boys again." Laughing together, the earthers went back into the Customs Lounge. IF  Novelette She was only a space captain's daughter -- and all she wanted was a human to call her own! X Tight was a diamond studded I  dream from where they sat. The moon was a maiden on wing suggesting amorous flight, fnside the stuffiness of the celluloid-like vehicle there was absolutely no hint of discomfort or absurd misfittings -- despite the fact that Threlkeld and his daughter were now shaped out of all proportions to the conveyor itself. "You seem unusually drawn," Threlkeld suggested from his prone positition on the floor of the craft. Gelerie took a deep, sensual sigh. "It is the pill, I am sure." TLook at you," Threlkeld muttered, "and look at me -- we're perhaps the most unique imitation of humans the galaxy has ever produced." Again there was a maddening silence... maddening to Threlkeld. "My daughter," he said at length, disturbed, "I must remind you of the importance of this little mission. My entire career with the inter-star patrol depends on how well we function." Gelerie was bent in a heap near the tapering nose of the pod-shaped vehicle as it hurtled past the lovely moon, headlong toward a giant green IF You don't have to mail the coupon -- if you want to keep your covers intact -- but don't years... and sure to be one of its best! Every issue of Words of Tomorrow is packed with the best stories of your favorite writers. At almost one-third of newsstand price -- more outstanding stories. Either clip the coupon or send order on a plain sheet of paper...  but don't wait! Do it todayl  I Introductory Subscription Department j j #I Hudson Street, New York City #, New York j I introductory price! Start my subscription with Issue No. I j J No. # (circle which you prefer). I enclose check or money  I order for #. (Add # for postage outside of North  I and South America).  I Name j i Address I j City Zone State I -- .J Here's What Is in Store for You in YouMI laugh with his The #fa Sent ICnoves and be enthralled by his The Night of tho Troll, One of science fiction's finest women writers and.onthologlsft brings you her unforgettabto story. The loney. An oll-flme great writer with The Masked World. Celebrated author of The Vi ffor af the Zoo comes ! The End of the Search. forgettable novelette. The fm possible Star, Another Hugo winner with onother memorable novelette A Jury of Its Peers. All Your Favorites! Prize winners and the best of the newcomers, novellsis and short-story writers -- all the writers who bring you the best of science fiction will be with subscription todayl and pmple planet below them. Hurtled in a vessel with no manual controls, a vessel grown in a government garden on another world... catapulted on a very special assignment to a planet that neither grew missiles nor thought of launching them without myriads of mechanical wires, dials and blinker lights. Now Threlkeld was filled with indignation. "Gelerie, I command you -- " "Yes, Father. You command me," she drawled. "Unless you remain attentive, my daughter, we may fail. Failing, I must concede that I have finally grown too old for spatial duty, and be sent to the Home. Do you want that?" Gelerie had acquired all the attributes of a beautiful, buxom Earth girl. She looked up in the soft light that glowed its phosphorous loveliness from the very walls of the seed pod they occupied. Threlkeld muttered, "Such beauty -- it is beyond all that the textbooks described." Now Gelerie butted in, "The trouble, my father, is simple. The transition pills -- " "What about them?" "They do more than convert us from a six-footed tree-hanging creature of the Alpha Centauri group. They impose upon us the same emotional stress of the human. You know, father, I have been changed into leopards, rhinos and snoquallimie eels before; but always I retained my own natural traits -- the love of trees, the desire to return to my naive form and habitat as quickly as possible. But this time, I feel demure and attractive and extremely vain and -- " "I warn you, my daughter. I am old. I have seen these Earth types at work. They are a useless breed. Their extra-curricular activities are beyond all reason. Very few of them stick to what is really important. Very few of them understand that achievement of the goal is the only thing there is. Now, I suggest you fight off these emotions. Try not to succumb to human frailities, for we have an important job to do -- lest your poor father be put out to pasture." T he sound of empty space beside them was almost unnoticeable. The swish, so familiar for such speeds near their own planetary chain far out in the universe, was now missing. As they approached the Earth, a thin crescent of daylight appeared to their right. "Father," Gelerie said, "I cannot help myself. I am in love with this Earth form. I have this -- this deep sense of beauty, of love, of desire. I cannot seem to quell it." Threlkeld tried to help her with logic. "Homekind gave us the pills for a brief mission. I have lived long enough not to desire these human qualities. You are much younger and have much more to learn. Homekind devised these pills for but one purpose -- you are to lure a young man of your choosing into our vehicle. He will then be transported home, and your father will have his old job back on the ferry to Betelgeuse. Do not fail me, Gelerie." IF A bright, mercury-like flood of daylight appeared, and Threlkeld explained to her that it was light from the Earth's source of life, the solar body they had passed. He explained that Homekind was now selecting by remote control their landing site. The pod now skittered through the skies, safely avoiding other space craft which Earth might have sent up. Threlkeld's mind left his daughter and consumed the view below them. A grand chasm of blue-green, an ocean. Strips of sand here and there along a vast continental shelf. Thick vegetation on the continent. An excess of river inlets. All important bearings on their location should they need to call home for help. He observed the scene with satisfaction. And then they were slowing to a snail's pace, and Homekind was selecting a clearing in the sand along the shore of a river. Then the seed pod, its shape so much like that of the zephyr of Earth, twisted whirlybird fashion to the ground. Threlkeld lifted the rear of the container, and stiffly the two Earth imitations stepped out. "Now we roll the vehicle into the trees." They carefully gathered sticks and bramble from the water's edge and made a natural pile of debris in front of the pod, so that anyone glancing its way would never see the brownish green vehicle for other than was intended to be seen -- a mound of dried clay. "Now where are we, father?" Gelerie asked, as she stretched herself into shape. "We are but ten miles from the city harbor. We will skirt the riverbank for a boat. Homekind left nothing untended -- which is why you -- " "Why I must not fail," she replied drily. "I know. I must not fail. But I must be allowed to enjoy my Earth form for a while. It is beautiful." She looked him squarely in the eye. "It is beautiful, is it not, father? Am I not more beautiful than you have ever seen me?" "Homekind makes recordings of our conversations, my daughter... as it is psychiatrically right that they should. And in their analyses, I do not want them to have to ever say that Threlkeld succumbed to the skindeep world of the Earth people. I must warn you again, Gelerie," he went on, "that Earth people base nearly all of their existence, their plans, their hopes on how attractive they may be, how young or how old they may look, how withered their skin. For they live chiefly for vanity, very little else." The way Gelerie sighed told him he had failed. "One thing more, my daughter," he said in another attempt. "Homekind made you that attractive merely for the purpose of luring this male Earth creature into our conveyor. Now can you do it? Will you keep your mind on your task?" Gelerie said, "Where will you be, father?" "I will make the selection for you. Then I will transfer my mind into yours, just to make certain you complete your task." The girl was lost again in self-appraisal. She extended her supple human arms and legs and observed them almost lovingly. "I like the short garments they wear. Such beauty should never be hidden." "Homekind arranged it that way with a definite purpose in mind. Remember that," he said, now trotting ahead to find some sign of a boat. He was about to give up, afraid to admit Homekind might have erred, when Gelerie shrieked, "Look -- over that way. A leafboat." A warm sense of thanks went out from Threlkeld silently. He led the way to the large blue-green leaf that lay flat upon the water, stiffened with wax, water-resistant, entirely buoyant. They pulled it close and stepped aboard. There was no need for paddles, since a modified leafboat constructed by Homekind and transported by Homekind always naturally had built-in propulsion. Tiny molecules of water were converted along the underside of the leaf into a moderate amount of energy which shoved them forward under Homekind's magnetic command toward a collection of tall glass spires. "Remember, Gelerie," Threlkeld said to the dreaming girl who let her hand dangle in the waters of Earth, "mv future is at stake. You are a sixfooted tree-hanging creature. You will return to your native form the moment our mission is completed. Now I will not warn you again. Another moody spell and we return to the vehicle with only one thing assured -- Threlkeld the Great's impending retirement." But if he expected an assurance out of Gelerie that she would not fail, he was wrong, for she did not respond. T hey abandoned the leaf boat as the foot of a sign, which in their compact Earth-translation scheme pill they had taken, said, Forty-second Street. They scaled the elevated structures with almost natural animal precision and carefully dodged the ground vehicles that sped toward them on ramps. Then they were on the premises of their destination. A large white building touching the sky, and beside it a curved, oblong structure which Threlkeld whispered contained Earth's government. "He is to be a diplomat?" she asked. "Sh," he said, as people hurried past them, turning to inspect Gelcrie's brief toggery. They ascended a ramp to the glassed foyer. Then they were inside, gaping at the height of the ceiling, at the overhanging balconies. A young woman with Oriental qualities approached them. "May I be of assistance?" "Oh, Father," Gelerie said, fascinated at the human voice. "We wish," Threlkeld began guardedly, "to speak with the youngest member of the world government -- " "That would be the Congo, sir." "Not nation. Individual staff member. Person. Human. Youngest in years," Threlkeld explained. "Twenty-one is generally as young as anyone is allowed -- as clerks and aides, sir. That would be the minimum age. Diplomatic corpsmen are IF usually considerably older, Very well. The nearest and youngest of the aides." "I can think of Monsieur Joffrion of France or Sahib Masher of Arabia." Threlkeld was now weeding out difficulties. Homekind had given them access to one language only. "Someone who speaks the language I am speaking." The girl frowned. "Sir, you do not know what language you speak?" A bolt of fear shot through Threlkeld's earth stomach. "Of course I know. The point is, do you know?" "English," the frustrated guide said. "Very well, I will secure Mr. Twitty of the British delegation. Come this way, sir, madam." Threlkeld forced a deep intake of oxygen. He smiled at Gelerie and they followed the girl to an elevator. When they alighted, they were escorted down a hall to the doorway marked. Delegation of the United Kingdom. Then the guide turned to Threlkeld and said, "I have instructions to learn the nature of your mission before introducing you, sir." Threlkeld had hoped it would not come to this. But better to tell the girl than foil the chance now. "I want the young man to fall in love with my daughter. Then I am going to kidnap him and whisk him off to a faraway planet." There, he had said it. Homekind had told him to say it if necessary. The truth would be the one thing the Earthlings would never believe, they had told him. The Oriental girl laughed and said, "Sir, I admit defeat. Mr. Twitty will have to take it from here." She stuck her head inside the door and whistled softly. "Pip, pip, Yu-lin," came the juvenile voice of the young man inside. "What's the bother, old girl?" "A man and his daughter to see you." "And the nature of their visit?" "They want you to fall in love with the beautiful girl, and then her father will escort you on a nice honeymoon to some love spot in romantic night sky." As Yu-lin spoke, she turned her bright oriental eyes to Threlkeld and winked. Threlkeld felt his blood rush hot. In a mental transit to his daughter, he said, "I think it high time I transferred my mind to you. You need all the moral stamina you can get, and I see the power these Earthlings have on the opposite sex. It is not good. Prepare fhe cavity of your brain," he instructed, and seeing that away, Threlkeld made the mindswitch alone and aimed his body at a door marked Mens Room. Soon it disappeared. T 'he young Earthman rushed forward, unconcerned with the internal workings of Threlkeld, fiddling with his frog glasses and blinking as if he did not see well. Gelerie saw that he was thin, tall, sandyhaired and extremely good looking. Her heart pounded and Threlkeld's mind said, "Watch out." The young man smiled and extended his hand to Gelerie. "You'll have to forgive the guide, madam. She sometimes gets carried away. I am Twitty of the U.K. So glad to have you aboard." A nudge somewhere near Gelerie's brain awakened her. "I am afraid I am here for a very strange reason -- the very reason Yu-lin stated. I want you to fall in love with me." Twitty replaced his glasses. "I think ril go back and come out again. My dear, you are a lovely creature, but back home I am engaged to a girl who won three local beauty contests on the way to the title of Miss Britain." "And did she win Miss Britain?" Twitty's mouth dropped. "What are you trying to say?" "I am trying to say, sir, leave your Miss Britain who did not quite make it and fly aWay with me to Alpha Centauri -- " "Oh. come now," Twitty said laughing. "In that brief toggery you expect me to believe you are some moon maiden from a midsummer night's dream and go wandering with you through loveland in the sky? Go back to your fairy tale, Miss -- " "Gelerie." "Gelerie what?" "Gelerie is all they gave me in the Alpha Centauri group. We have a home-grown vehicle waiting in the woods. And a leafboat at the foot of Forty-second Street to carry us under its own power to the site of the vehicle. We covered the vehicle with driftwood to protect it lest some Earthling should swipe it and Homekind be forced to grow us another." Twitty called over his shoulder. "Brighton? Take over for a little while. I shall return by and by." But the allure of the woman creature in short pants was drawing him near. "May I see this thing in the woods?" "Of course," she said, and she could feel the mental smile of Threlkeld inside her brain as it seemed to take a deep, relieved breath. They descended the elevator and come out at the main exit. Twitty bolted forward and grabbed a guard by the arm. "Sir, I wish you to arrest this woman on suspicion as an alien from outer space or a candidate for Bellevue." A burly guard with a kind face looked into Gelerie's eyes. Now her father's brain was at anxiety's peak, calling the plays. "Go ahead, double your fingers into a fist, shove it forward. now, under his jaw -- " "But -- " Gelerie was stammering. "No buts!" Threlkeld's internal instructions poured. "When Homekind made you beautiful, my dear, they also made you big. You are an Amazon." "Amazon?" "No time to explain," he said. "Let the bruiser have one!" Gelerie shrugged and took a swing. The arms of the guard shot skyward, and the big, hulking body in uniform fell backwards and plopped against the floor. As he rose up, shouting, Gelerie grabbed the slim Mr. Twitty around the waist, lifted him bodily and ran like a sudden gale through the lobby, out the door, down the ramp and to the river. With an Olympic leap, she made it to the stable, sturdy leafboat. O n orders from Homekind the craft quietly slid toward the trysting place, Gelerie was aware of IF a flood of congratulations from her father in her brain. Twitty was red with humiliation. "You know, of course, they will be flying over us momentarily. You'll be courtmartialed, or whatever it is they do to the American kidnapers of international (diplomatic corps persons." "You don't like me," Gelerie pouted. "I came all the way from Alpha Centauri to take you home with me and you don't even as much as like me." The young Englishman lifted Gelerie's chin and studied her tears. "By jove, they are not crocodilian. I believe you are serious. You are innocent and serious...strong, of course, but innocent." "I love you. I want no one but you," she said. "I can see there would be an advantage in a fellow my size having a wife your size," he said reflectively. "But Babs would never approve." Gelerie shrugged her broad shoulders. She hugged herself lovingly. "Babs can always get another fellow. I'll never be able to get another guy." "Why? Are you planning to resign from the human race?" "That's exactly it," she agreed. "However, if I get you to come back with me, Homekind may consent to my staying in the human form and living with you the rest of my life." Twitty laughed. "Boys, come and get me," he muttered at the sky. Threlkeld stayed on guard mentally, and Gelerie depressed into a morose, human activity known as sinking one's head into one's knees. The U.K. man's laugh turned abruptly to awe when he saw the helicopter flutter over them and land on a spot of riverbank just ahead. Vaguely he could see military pilots, and two civilians hop out and run for the woods. He watched with disturbed concern as the leafboat made a sharp right turn of its own volition and headed for the bank. Now Gelerie arose, picked him up by the waist and carried him bodily toward the gathering. The militia were uncovering the seed pod. "Twitty," one of the men called. "What in heaven's name is she doing to you?" "You'll never guess," he fumed. "She's taking me to Alpha Centauri." "You don't mean it!" his crony replied. "Whatever will Babs think?" The military men ran back to the group. "Cadogan, sir. I believe you'd better come look. That clay mound behind all the rubble. It is just like the old man said it would be." Gelerie looked and saw her father at the vehicle. She raced forward with Twitty scratching and kicking. Cadogan said, "We found the old man wandering aimlessly. We asked him to show us where he came from. He kept pointing until we landed here. He has an excellent memory, but something has control of him. Something very sinister and weird, Twitty." Inside, Gelerie was getting a strong command from Threlkeld. "Get close, much closer. How can I effect a transit until you come within the required distance?" She thought-replied, "Well, get out of the pod so I can see you." "No! Get inside quickly. Homekind is ready whenever we are. Bring Twitty in with you and we'll be away!" Now the military men and Cadogan were clearing away the debris, half stumbling, half confused. "Get the girl. Don't let her get in that thing. No matter how absurd their story, don't let her get aboard that  -- that seed pod!" "Amazon," T h r e I k e I d yelled. "Amazon, Amazon, Amazon! Gelerie -- " A t that, Gelerie dropped Twitty and began swinging with both fists. She laid out two helicopter pilots and a civilian. She retrieved Twitty and her father said, "Now, get the devil in this pod so I can transfer back to the body! Then wc can revert to type, I said get the devil in the pod so -- " "No!" "Gelerie," his voice stormed, shattering her peace of mind. "No. If we go back to Alpha," she said, "I'll be a six-legged amphibian and Twitty will be a handsome human. He won't even know me!" Twitty looked at her. "Wh-who are addressing?" From inside the voice thundered on. "Think of your father, who has worked all his life for you! Just one more assignment with interstar patrol. Even ferry duty will suffice. Please let me have my specimen and my body, Gelerie! Please go inside the seed pod. Homekind will kill me in hours if I fail." Gelerie held Twitty at a distance. "I can't do it. I can't leave him." "Then bring him with you. What I keep telling you we came for -- " "Not as human-animal versus animal-animal," she said. "I love him. I can't harm him." "In the ship, Gelerie! For your old Daddy. Inside, girl. In -- " Gelerie was now close enough to permit her father's mind to transit. From inside he spoke aloud, "Well, thank Homekind for that! Now get in and we'll be off." "What about one of the others?" she said, now pointing at the three men who lay unconscious at her feet. "That would be fine," Threlkeld replied. "Just loss Twitty in the drink and bring Cadogan. He looks like good stock." Twitty was suddenly stricken with fright. If he never believed before, he believed now. "No. Cadogan has a wife and children. Don't take him -- take me, I'm unmarried." "Well," Threlkeld said, "now it's all solved. Get on board, Gelerie." "No, father. If I do that, I still become less than Twitty. Homekind does not respect love affairs between separate types." "Nor does it allow its 'missionaries to remain in the arena after the battle is won. Gelerie, face it if you stay here you'll revert to type the instant I leave." Gelerie turned Twitty loose. She bent low and looked through the opening of the vehicle at her father. "Do you think Homekind would do that other thing?" She said it so Twitty would not guess right off. "Nonsense. It would defeat the whole purpose of the mission," Threlkeld said. "They want a human specimen. Taking him home and IF turning him into one of us would not give them any new thing to study. You'll have to do better than that." "I meant here. Make him one of our kind and let him stay here." Threlkeld said, "Only if you can produce some human to take his place." Gelerie thought a moment. "What is the time limit on this mission?" "A year, Earth time. Two years at the outside." "And the period of human gestation?" "Nine months, ten days and -- what gives?" "I shall marry Twitty, give Homekind a human specimen -- my own -- in nine months and ten days. You tell Homekind of my plan. Let them hear the recording. Then return and be with me. I shall, one hour very soon, invite Twitty to sojourn with me on the completion of this mission, father. I guarantee you, Homekind be with me, he will not want to see me go the rest of the way alone." Threlkeld said, "My daughter's mind is full of strange logic, but it makes good sense. But be extremely careful my dear. The human is a deceitful thing. He will kiss your lips while stabbing your back." Gelerie turned to Twitty and said, "How would you like to have six legs and swing from the tree by your tail?" She turned and spoke, "See, father? He faints so readily. He will be quite easily handled." But her human eyes had not adjusted perfectly to Earth's thick atmosphere. She suddenly did not see the vehicle containing her father. Then, far beyond the clouds of sunset, she detected a small dot sailing off into the deep blue, its side reflecting gold. "Farewell for now, my father," she whispered. T urning to the helicopter, she carried three subdued men and placed them aboard. Then she lifted Twitty softly to her shoulders and muttered, "Homekind, fly me to their quarters. I am weary for the moment and do not feel like operating the controls." The copter lifted silently, swinging out over the East River. Though cramped, Gelerie found a place beside her for Twitty. When he bad stopped shaking, she whistled softly as the Oriental girl had and kissed him as an Amazon I E I by Philip K. Dick The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: In the past few issues  has made itself, I feel, one of the main cience-fiction magazines. Its quality has come up astonishingly. In the July issue. Emsh, with his cover illustration and interior work, reinforced in my mind my high opinion of him. How about an allEmsh issue? Before your July issue, you may remember, I wrote you and said that I'd gladly do a flip for more Van Vogt like what's-his-name did for Heinlein. Then I went on to say, "But I guess that isn't too likely." Well, what can I say? Except "ugh" aa I land on my back... Hank Luttrell Route #-# Barrett Sta. Rd. Kirkwood #, Mo. e  e Dear Editor: As an SF fan for the last # years, I feel entitled to sound off to the writers. So with your permission... SF writers attention! I hereby propose the following manifesto in regard to future sf stories: In first-contact-with-alien stories, let's have one of the parties equipped with automatic translators, and let's get on with the story. If I have to suffer through another of those long, laborious processes of "Me Tarzan -- Him No. # Planet" struggles, I just might give up sf and take up golf. On the subject of girls: Now, they're all right, don't get me wrong. But let's vary it a bit. I mean all this "terrific figrure, full breasts, scanty garments" stuff is getting, well, duW, believe it or not. Let's set up a code numbering system, like No. #-blonde, #-#-#. No. #-brunette, #-#-#, etc. Think of the space we'd save! Spaceships: By now everyone's IF #t heard of hyperdriye (that's where you call Einstein a liar by groins faster than light), so let's just ttss it, all right? Aliens: Those little green men, or they're well, don't you think it's time for something new? Maybe even humans. George A. Mayerchak  Dear Editor: Do you suppose I could have a bit of space in your letter column to mention to your readers that there is a contest now being run, for the third consecutive year, in fact, for amateur sf authors? est fan group of them all. Awards, three of them, are in cash. It is open to everyone who has sold less than three stories professionally. Stories must be less than # words -- fantasy, sf or weird. There is something in this for everyone; even the youngest writer who has little more than enthusiasm will find out why they don't sell. We can pretty well guarantee at least a page of criticism -- which, as anyone who submits at all regularly to prozines is well aware, is generally not available to the writer. The editors just don't have time to tell the would-be authors why they don't make it. For the complete rules, write me. Clayton Hamilin Southwest Harbor Maine  If neither sponsors nor participates in this contest -- but we think it's a Good Thing. Especially for ose new writers who pretty well know their stories aren't quite right to be published, and want to get a second person's view on why they aren't That we're just not able to do... We are able to do one thing toward encouraging new talent, though, and that is to print some of it. As regular readers know, each issue we bring you at least one story by a new writer. This issue there are two : The Tune of Cold, by a young lady from South Dakota, and The Customs Lounge, by a folksinging, star-gazing man from upstate New York. We like 'em -- hope you will too! -- Editor.   Dear Editor: Your July issue was good, but there were a few things about it that had a distinct aroma of the "old" If. Mighiest Qom: OK, but for some reason it seemed like a rewritten Relief of the Red-Tape Mountain (May, '#). Why does Retief always beat up on those poor little aliens? Earth should be up to its neck in space wars by now, but we always seem to end up with the BE M's on our side. Don't get me wrong. I think Retief is a great guy, but sometimes he seems very like a comic-book hero. Down to the Worlds of Men: Quite a story! I'd like to see more of this fellow's work. The Faces Outside: This story tears up and burns the 'Worlds of Galaxy Rejects" bit, especially when you add to it the great Turning Point and Singleminded of May. In the Arena: Actually this story reminded me of the E. R. Burroughs Mars series, with all Its arena battles in the first couple of books. At least the hero and heroine didn't give each other psychoanalysis as they do all too often. David Lebling # Rollins Court Rockville, Maryland   Dear Editor: Something bugged me about the May If. Pederson's cover from Turning Point was great, but -- I thought Mierna had blonde hair and blue skin, not black hair and brown skin. Don't tell me I'm colorblind! Don't get me wrong, though -- everything else about the issue was supreme! Lizbeth Stern #I East # St. New York City #  Well, we can explain that. The chain of communications between the author and the artist rests on one weak link. We're it. We goofed in transmitting the descriptions. -- Ed itor.    Dear Editor: How lucky you are! So many amateur editors and critics to help you run your magazine (art experts, too!) Particularly one Douglas Taylor of Elephant's Breath, Kansas, who, in his distinguished critique, off-handedly recommends that you 'eject Relief", thus causing me to write my first letter to any editor in all my years of science-ficion addiction. We live in troublesome times indeed, Mr. Taylor of Elephant's Ear, Kansas, times in which mediocrity is the standard and the art of gentle satire is all but extinct. Hit 'em with an ax or they don't dig you. I must take exception where Relief is concerned -- a rare combination of "actionadventure yarn" and intellectual type humor of a sort that appeals to me. Back to you, dear editor. I'm sure that you are doing your experienced best to produce a fine magazine and I for one will continue to wade through good stories and bad, good illustrations and poor, leaving all the decisions up to you -- saving only that you hang onto Relief for me! Harvey Telowitz # Long Beach Rd. Island Park, N. Y. #I  Dear Editor: I have the first volume, the first issue of If. Do you know who needs it? Lawrence Pearson # Willoughby Brooklyn #, N. Y.    Dear Editor: Hal Clement is really good. He is always good. He was especially good with The Green World in the May, #, issue of If. I would like to send out a plea for issues of Captain Future. James W. Ayers # #st St. Attalla, Ala.   (  There we are, out of room again. Thanks to all of you -- especially to those whose letters wouldn't fit in this time... Next issue? Retief is back, in Keith Laumer's The Governor of Glave; John Brunner tells us about A Better Mousetrap; we conclude The Reefs of Space... and there'll be more! Editor IF  if you want to keep your copy of Galaxy intact for permanent possession! Why mutilate a good thing? But, by the same token... if you're devotee enough to want to keep your copies in mint condition, you ought to subscribe. You really ought to. For one thing, you get your copies earlier. For another, you're sure you'll get them! Sometimes newsstands run out -- the mail never does. (And you can just put your name and address on a plain sheet of paper and mail it to us, at the address below. We'll know what you mean... provided you enclose your check!) In the past few years Galaxy has published the finest stories by the finest writers in the field Bester, Heinlein, Pohl, Asimov, Sturgeon, Leiber and nearly everyone else. In the next few years it will go right on, with stories that are just as good... or better. Don't miss any issue of Galaxy. You can make sure you won't. Just subcribe today. (lf, on the other hand, your habit is to read them once and go on to something new -- please feel free to use the coupon! It's for your convenience, not ours.) Enter my subscription for the New Giant #-page Galaxy , foreign postage) (U. S. Edition only) for: # Issues  # # Issues  # # Issues  # Name City Address Zone State Seated, #. to r.: Bennett Cerf, Faith Baldwin, Berrien Evans. Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. t). Ratcliff Standing: Mark Wiseman, Max Shulman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith, Rod Serling Photo by Philippe Halsman # famous authors start a new kind of writing school If you have writing talent worth developing, here's an opportunity never before available: Twelve of America's most famous authors have created a school of professional writing to help you develop your skill, talent and craftsmanship... and to pass on to you their secrets of achieving success and recognition. This unique home-training program is supervised by Rod Serling, winner of five Emmys for TV writing; Pulitzer Prize historian Bruce Catton; best-selling novelist Faith man; publisher-columnist Bennett Cerf; famed sportswriter Red Smith; Rudolf Flesch, top authority on readable writing; noted language expert Prof. Bergen Evans; famous mystery novelist Mignon G. Eberhart; J. D. Ratcliff, called by Time "America's No. I craftsman in the field of non-fiction"; and top ad men John Caples and Mark Wiseman. These famous authors have developed  remarkable series of textbooks, lessons and writing assignments that present -- in a clear and stimulating way -- what they have learned in their long, hard climb to the top. The School's instructors are themselves professional writers. Under the supervision of the # Famous Writers, these instructors work with students by mail, just as magazine and book editors work with many established authors. And they spend up to several hours on each assignment completed by a student... revising, correcting, and advising. The Famous Writers School is less than three years old. Its first students are not due to graduate until later this year. Yet, many have sold their writings to such varied publications as The Reader's Dlfest, Redhook, Popular Science, True Story. To select people with writing talent worth developing, the # Famous Writers have designed a revealing Talent Test. The coupon will bring you a copy, along with a brochure about the School. Your completed Test will be graded without charge or obligation by one of the School's instructors. If your Test indicates writing talent, you are then eligible to enroll in the School. You are, however, under absolutely no obligation to do so. Famous Writers School Dept. #, Westport, Connecticut I am interested in finding out whether I have writing talent worth developing. Please mail me, without obligation, the Famous Writers Talent Test. Mr. Mrs Age Miss Street City Zone County State The School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. THE GOVERNOR OF GLAVE-A Retief Storyby KEITH LAUMER  #s' New stories hy You don't have to mail the coupon -- if you want to keep your covers intact -- but don't years... and sure to be one of its best! Every issue of Worlds of Tomorrow is packed with the best stories of your favorite writers. At almost one-third of newsstand price -- more outstanding stories. Either clip the coupon or send order on a plain sheet of paper... but don't wait! Do it today! r n I Introductory Subscription Department J j #I Hudson Street, New York City #, New York ! I introductory price! Start my subscription with Issue No. I I  No. # (circle which you prefer). I enclose check or money  I order for #. (Add # for postage outside of North  I and South America).  I Name j I Address I i City Zone State I I J Here's What Is in Store for You in You'll laugh with his The Sfar Sent Knaves and be enthralled by his The Night of the Trolls. One of science fiction's finest women writers and anthologists brings you her unforgettable story. The Lonely. An all-time great writer with The Masked World. Celebrated author of The Visitor at the Zoo comes to The End of the Search. Hugo award-winner with an unforgettable novelette. The Impossible Star. Another Hugo winner with another memorable novelette, A Jury of Its Peers. All Your Favorites! Prize winners and the best of the newcomers, novelists and short-story writers -- all the writers who bring you the best of science fiction will be with subscription todayl Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher David Perton, Production Manager Rose M. Bianchini, Art Director Cover by Gaughan from Muck Man IP published bi-monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial T his is not the letter department -- you'll find that elsewhere (and just by the way, it certainly has improved, hasn't it? One of these days we'll be back in the golden age of controversy and provocation, and screeds by people who are obviously destined to. fill the rest of the book) -- but from time to time something comes in which calls for more than the phrase of response which is all space allows back aft. For example, we owe some attention to Mr. Ed Wegman, Promotion tions Center. In our last issue, we described with justified hysterical enthusiasm the remarkable volume Source Book for Science Teachers, a handbook for the chewing-gum and string school of science buffs. We also went out of our way to be snide and cute about the lack of promotion for this shining gem of a book, since we had stumbled across it accidentally in a top company catalog IF be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, 'The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe   K I Scribe H.W.K... I San Jose, California i j Please send me the free book. The Mastery  I of Life, which explains how I may learn to  I use my faculties and powers of mind. g ' I i Name i  I ! Address ' Rosicrucians City and by press time had been unable to find out who sells it in the U.S. And inevitably, the moment the article was set in type and beyond correction, Mr. Wegman's kind and courteous letter comes in with all the needed information. Know all by these presents then, that the Source Book can be had from Unesco Publications Center, #I Third Ave., New York #. It's # in hardcover, # in paper, and a hundred times worth a missed meal. Nothing we have done in these pages has sparked such a large and high-quality response as our recent piece on The American W ishhook, a discussion of the delights of catalogs. It "hit my sense of wonder squarely" said one respondent, which is almost as gratifying to an author of anything in a science-fiction magazine as a first acceptance. Now, company policy precludes our reporting prices or addresses in or of these catalogs, but we have answered each individual query, and in some cases, to save time (for these letters come from all over the world) have written ourselves to the companies, asking that their wishbooks be sent to the reader. This is only one way of saying that your letters mean a great deal to us. We have asked that an exception be made to the publisher's taboo on price reporting on these two items, because we regard them as genuinely exciting news items. The Zuckermann harpsichord kit costs only # (plus your local lumber) and the Heath electronic organ kit goes for a mere # (less bench). Either one gives you an instrument you couldn't get elsewhere without kicking hell out of a thousand-dollar bill. Ever use air letter sheets? You get them at the Post Office for #c -- a single sheet of lightweight paper, which folds up into envelope size and shape and is good for air postage to anywhere on earth. Well, many countries issue them, and one of the Wishbook letters came from New Zealand on an airletter sheet which bore a beautiful fourrcolor scenic print; we've never seen anything like it and suggest that some enterprising American printer please copy. O ccasionally we get queries, ranging from genealogy ("Can you tell me where my name originated?) through confessions of fuggheadedness ("I see by the May issue that you are to become editor of . When?" -- though what the May issue clearly reported was that Fred Pohl, and not yr. hmbl. svt., was editor of Worlds of Tomorrow) to questions of genuine interest to a good many of us. These are handled severally by ignoring them, by individual letters, or, as in this case, by asking you all, as: "Maybe you can help me. I sure would like a three dimensional coordinate system to which I can easily fix points to create mathematical figures and engineering projects. It could be photographed and used to show students and persons without great orientation-perception, facts that might not be apparent from drawings." Maybe you can help him? IF IF  Novelette The revolution was over and peace restored -- naturally Retief expected the worst! I R elief turned back the gold-encrusted scarlet cuff of the mess jacket of a First Secretary and Consul, gathered in the three eight-sided black dice, shook them by his right ear and sent them rattling across the floor to rebound from the bulkhead. "Thirteen's the point," the Power Section Chief called. 'Ten he makes it!" "Oh... Mr. Retief," a strained voice called. Retief looked up. A tall thin youth in the black-trimmed gray of a Third Secretary flapped a sheet of paper from the edge of the circle surrounding the game. "The Ambassador's compliments, sir, and will you join him and the staff in the conference room at once?" Retief rose and dusted his knees. "That's all for now, boys," he said. "I'll take the rest of your money later." He followed the junior diplomat from the ward room, along the bare corridors of the crew level, past the glare panel reading the chandeliered and draped ballroom and along a stretch of soundless carpet to a heavy door bearing "Ambassador Sternwheeler seemed quite upset, Mr. Retief," the messenger said. "He usually is, Pete." Retief took a cigar from his breast pocket. "Got a light?" The Third Secretary produced a permatch. "I don't know why you smoke those things instead of dope sticks, Mr. Retief," he said. "The Ambassador hates the smell." Retief nodded. "I only smoke this kind at conferences. It makes for shorter sessions." He stepped into the room. Ambassador Sternwheeler eyed him down the length of the conference table. "Ah, Mr. Retief honors us with his presence. Do be seated, Retief." He fingered a yellow Departmental despatch. Retief took a chair, puffing out a dense cloud of smoke. "As I have been explaining to the remainder of my staff for the past quarter-hour," Stern wheeler rumbled, "I've been the recipient of important intelligence." He blinked at Retief expectantly. Retief raised his eyebrows in polite inquiry. "It seems," Sternwheeler went on, "that there has been a change in regime on Glave. A week ago, the government which invited the dispatch of this mission -- and to which weYe acca-edited -- was overthrown. The former ruling class has fled into exile. A popular workers' and peasants' junta has taken over." "Mr. Ambassador," Counsello Magnan broke in, rising. "I'd like to be the first -- " he glanced around the table -- "or one of the first, anyway, to welcome the new government of Glave into tiie family of planetary ruling bodies -- " #Qit down, Magnan!" SternO wheeler snapped. "Of course the Corps always recognizes de facto sovereignty. The problem is merely one of acquainting ourselves with the policies of this new group -- a sort of blue-collar coalition, it seems. In what position that leaves this Embassy I don't yet know." "I suppose this means we'll spend the next month in a parking orbit," Counsellor Magnan sighed. "Unfortunately," S t e r nwheeler went on, "the entire affair has apparently been carried off without recourse to violence, leaving the Corps no excuse to move in -- that is, it appears our assistance in restoring order will not be required." "Glave was one of the old Contract Worlds," Retief said. "What's become of the Planetary Manager General and the technical staff? And how do the peasants and workers plan to operate the atmospheric purification system, the Weather Control station, the tide regulation complexes?" "I'm more concerned at present with the status of the Mission! Will we be welcomed by these peasants or peppered with buckshot?" "You say that this is a popular junta, and that the former leaders have fled into exile," Retief said. "May I ask the source?" "The despatch cites a 'reliable Glavian source' . " "That's officialese for something cribbed from a broadcast news tape. Presumably the Glavian news services are in the hands of the revolution. In that case -- " "Yes, yes, there is the possibility that the issue is yet in doubt. Of course we'll have to exercise caution in making our approach. It wouldn't do to make overtures to the wrong side." "Oh, I think we need have no fear on that score," the Chief of the Political Section spoke up. "I know these entrenched cliques. Once challenged by an aroused populace, they scuttle for safety -- with large balances safely tucked away in neutral banks." "I'd like to go on record," Magnan piped, "as registering my deep gratification at this fulfillment of popular aspirations -- " "The most popular aspiration I know of is to live high off someone else's effort," Retief said. "I don't know of anyone outside the Corps who's managed it." # C Gentlemen!" Sternwheeler belVj lowed. "I'm awaiting your coqstructive suggestions -- not an exchange of political views. We'll arrive off Glave in less than six hours. I should like before that time to have developed some notion regarding to whom I shall expect to offer my credentials!" There was a discreet tap at the door; it opened and the young Third Secretary poked his head in. "Mr. Ambassador, I have a reply to your message -- just received from Glave. It's signed by the Stewwant to see it at once..." "Yes, of course; let me have it." asked. "It's the revolutionary group," the messenger said, passing the message over. "Glorious Fun Eternally," Retief suggested. "Or possibly Goodies For Everybody." "I believe that's 'Glavian Free Electorate'," the Third Secretary said. Sternwheeler stared at the paper, lips pursed. His face grew pink. He slammed the paper on the table. "Well, gentlemen! It appears our worst fears have been realized! This is nothing less than a warning! A threat! We're advised to divert course and bypass Glave entirely. It ence from meddling foreign exploiters, as they put it!" Magnan rose. "If you'll excuse me Mr. Ambassador, I want to get off a message to Sector HQ to hold my old job for me -- " "Sit down, you idiot!" Sternwheeler roared. "If you think I'm consenting to have my career blighted -- my first Ambassadorial post whisked out from under me -- the Corps made a fool of -- " "I'd like to take a look at that IF message," Relief said. It was passed along to him. He read it. don't believe this applies to us, Mr. Ambassador." #TThat are you talking about?   It's addressed to me by name!" "It merely states that 'meddling foreign exploiters' are unwelcome. Meddling foreigners we are, but we don't qualify as exploiters unless we show a profit -- and this appears to be shaping up as a particularly profitless venture." "What are you proposing, Mr. Retief?" "That we proceed to make planetfall as scheduled, greet our welcoming committee with wide diplomatic smiles, hint at largesse in the offing and settle down to observe the lie of the land." "Just what I was about to suggest," Magnan said. "That might be dangerous," Sternwheeler said. "That's why I didn't suggest it," Magnan said. "Still it's essential that we learn more of the situation than can be gleaned from official broadcasts," Sternwheeler mused. "Now, while I can't justify risking the entire Mission, it might be advisable to dispatch a delegation to sound out the new regime." "I'd like to volunteer," Magnan said, rising. "Of course, the delegates may be murdered -- " " -- but unfortunately. I'm under treatment at the moment." Magnan sat down.  -- which will place us in an excellent position, propaganda-wise. "What a pity I can't go," the Military Attache said. "But my place is with my troops." "The only troops you've got are the Assistant Attache and your secretary," Magnan pointed out.  "Say, I'd like to be down there in the thick of things," the Political Officer said. He assumed a grave expression. "But of course I'll be needed here, to interpret results." "I appreciate your attitude, gentlemen," Sternwheeler said, studying the ceiling. "But I'm afraid I must limit the privilege of volunteering for this hazardous duty to those officers of more robust physique, under forty years of age -- " "Tsk. I'm forty-one," Magnan said. " -- and with a reputation for adaptability." His glance moved along the table. "Do you mind if I run along now, Mr. Ambassador?" Retief said. It's time for my insulin shot." Sternwheeler's mouth dropped open. "Just kidding," Retief said." "I'll go. But I have one request, Mr. Ambassador: no further communication with the ground until I give the allclear." II R etief grounded the lighter, incycled the lock and stepped out. The hot yellow Glavian sun beat down on a broad expanse of concrete, an abandoned service cart and a row of tall ships casting black II shadows toward the sflent control tower. A wisp of smoke curled up from the shed area at the rim of the field. There was no other sign of life. Retief walked over to the cart, tossed his valise aboard, climbed into the driver's seat and headed for the operations building. Beyond the port, hills rose, white buildings gleaming against the deep green slopes. Near the ridge, a vehicle moved ant-like along a winding road, a dust trail rising behind it. Faintly a distant shot sounded. Papers littered the ground before the Operations Building. Retief pushed open the tall glass door, stood listening. Slanting sunlight reflected from a wide polished floor, at the far side of which illuminated lettering over empty counters read put the valise down, then leaned across the counter. A worried face under an oversized white cap looked up at him. "You can come out now," Retief said. "They've gone." The man rose, dusting himself off. He looked over Retief's shoulder. "Who's gone?" "Whoever it was that scared you." "Whatta ya mean? I was looking for my pencil." "Here it is." Retief plucked a worn stub from the pocket of the soiled shirt sagging under the weight of braided shoulderboards. "You can sign me in as a Diplomatic Representative. A break for you -- no formalities necessary. Where can I catch a cab for the city?" The man eyed Retiefs bag. "What's in that?" "Personal belongings under dutyfree entry." "Guns?" "No, thanks, just a cab." "You got no gun? The man raised his voice. "That's right, fellows," Retief called out. "No gun; no knife, not even a small fission bomb. Just a few pairs of socks and some reading matter." A brown-uniformed man ran from behind the Customs Counter, holding a long-barreled blast-rifle centered on the Corps insignia stitched to the pocket of Retief's powder-blue blazer. "Don't try nothing," he said. "You're under arrest." "It can't be overtime parking. I've only been here five minutes." "Hah!" The gun-handler moved out from the counter, came up to Retief. "Empty out your pockets!" he barked. "Hands overhead!" "I'm just a diplomat, not a contortionist," Retief said, not moving. "Do you mind pointing that thing in some other direction?" "Looky here. Mister, I'll give the orders. We don't need anybody telling us how to run our business." "I'm telling you to shift that blaster before I take it away from you and wrap it around your neck," Retief said conversationally. The cop stepped back uncertainly, lowering the gun. "Jake! Horny! Pud! come on out!" Three more brown uniforms emerged from concealment. '# IF "Who are you fellows hiding from, the top sergeant?" Retief glanced over the ill-fitting uniforms, the unshaved faces, the scuffed boots. "Tell you what. When he shows up, I'll engage him in conversation. You beat it back to the barracks and grab a quick bath -- " "That's enough smart talk." The biggest of the three newcomers moved up to Retief. "You stuck your nose in at the wrong time. We just had a change of management around here." "I heard about it," Retief said. "Who do I complain to?" "Complain? What about?" "The port's a mess," Retief barked. "Nobody on duty to receive official visitors! No passenger service facilities! Why, do you know I had to carry my own bag -- " "All right, all right, that's outside my department. You better see the boss." "The boss? I thought you got rid of the bosses." "We did, but now we got new ones." "They any better than the old ones?" "This guy asks too many questions," the man with the gun said. "Let's let Sozier answer 'em." "Who's he?" "He's the Military Governor of the City." "Now we're getting somewhere," Retief said. "Lead the way, Jake -- and don't forget my bag." S ozier was a small man with thin hair oiled across a shiny scalp, prominent ears and eyes like coal chips set in rolls of fat. He glowered at Retief from behind a polished desk occupying the center of a spacious office. "I warned you off," he snapped. "You came anyway." He leaned forward and slammed a fist down on the desk. "You're used to throwing your weight around, hut you won't throw it around here! There'll be no spies pussyfooting around Glave!" "Looking for what, Mr. Sozier?" "Call me General!" "Mind if I sit down?" Retief pulld out a chair, seated himself and took out a cigar. "Curiously enough," he Said, lighting up, "the Corps has no intention of making any embarrassing investigations. We deal with the existing government, no questions asked." His eyes held the other's. "Unless, of course, there are evidences of atrocities or other illegal measures." The coal-chip eyes narrowed. "I don't have to make explanations to you or anybody else." "Except, presumably, the Glavian Free Electorate," Retief said blandly. "But tell me, General -- who's actually running the show?" A speaker on the desk buzzed. "Hey, Corporal Sozier! Wes's got them two hellions cornered. They're holed up in the Birthday Cake -- " "General Sozier, damn you! and plaster your big mouth shut!" He gestured to one of the uniformed men standing by. "You! Get Trundy and Little Moe up here -- pronto!" He swiveled back to Retief. "You're in luck. I'm too busy right now to bother with you. You get back over to the port and leave the same way you came -- and tell your blood-sucking friends the easy pickings are over as far as Glave's concerned. You won't lounge around here living high and throwing big parties and cooking up your dirty deals to get fat on at the expense of the working man." Retief dribbled ash on Sozier's desk and glanced at the green uniform front bulging between silver buttons. "Who paid for your potbelly, Sozier?" he inquired carelessly. Sozier's eyes narrowed to slits. "I could have you shot!" "Stop playing games with me, Sozier," Retief rapped. "There's a squadron of Peace Enforcers standing by just in case any apprentice statesmen forget the niceties of diplomatic usage. I suggest you start showing a little intelligence about now, or even Horny and Pud are likely to notice." S ozier's fingers squeaked on the arms of his chair. He swailowed. "You might start by assigning me an escort for a conducted tour of the capital," Retief went on. "I want to be in a position to confirm that order has been restablished, and that normal services have been restored. Otherwise it may be necessary to send in a Monitor Unit to straighten things out " "You know you can't meddle with the internal affairs of a sovereign world!" Retief sighed. "The trouble with taking over your boss's job is discovering its drawbacks. It's disillusioning, I know, Sozier, but -- " "All right! Take your tour! You'll find everything running as smooth as silk! Utilities, police, transport, environmental control -- " "W hat about Space Control? Glave Tower seems to be off the air." "I shut it down. We don't need anything and we don't want anything from the outside.' "Where's the new Premier keeping himself? Does he share your passion for privacy?" Tfee general got to his feet. "I'm letting you take your look, Mr. Big Nose. I'm giving you four hours. Then out! And the next meddling bureaucrat that tries to cut atmosphere on Glave without a clearance gets burned!" "I'll need a car." "Jake! You stick close to this bird Take him to the main power plant, the water works and the dispatch center. Ride him around town and show him we're doing okay without a bunch of leeches bossing us. Then dump him at the port -- and see that he leaves." "I'll plan my own itinerary, thanksI can't promise I'll be finished in four hours -- but I'll keep you advised." "I warned you -- " "I heard you. Five times. And I only warned you once. You're getting ahead of me." Retief rose, motioned to the hulking guard. "Come on, Jake. We've got a lot of ground to cover before we come back for our dinner. IF Ill A t the curb, Retief held out his hand. "Give me the power cylinder out of your rifle, Jake." "Huh?" "Come on, Jake. You've got a nervous habit of playing with the firing stud. We don't want any accidents." "How do you get it out? They only give me this thing yesterday." Retief pocketed the cylinder. "You sit in back. I'll drive." He wheeled the car off along a broad avenue crowded with vehicles and lined with flowering palms, behind which stately white buildings reared up into the pale sky. "Nice looking city, Jake," Retief said conversationally. "What's the population?"  "I dunno. I only been here a year." "What about Horny and Pud? Are they natives?" "Whatta ya mean, natives? They're just as civilized as me." "My boner, Jake. Known Sozier long?" "Sure. He useta come around to the club." "I take it he was in the army under the old regime?" "Yeah' -- but he didn't like the way they run it. Nothing but band playing and fancy marching. There wasn't nobody to fight." "Just between us, Jake -- where did the former Planetary Manager General go?" Retief watched Jake's heavy face in the mirror. Jake jumped, clamped his mouth shut. "I don't know nothing." Half an hour later, after a tour of the commercial center, Retief headed towards the city's outskirts. The avenue curved, leading up along the flank of a low hill. "I must admit I'm surprised, Jake," Retief said. "Everything seems orderly No signs of riots or panic. Power, water, communications normal -- just as the general said. Remarkable, isn't it, considering that the entire managerial class has packed up and left?" "You wanta see the Power Plant?" Retief could see perspiration beaded on the man's forehead under the uniform cap. "Sure. Which way?" With Jake directing, Retief ascended to the ridge top, cruised past the blank white facade of the station. "Quiet, isn't it?" Retief pulled the car in to the curb. "Let's go inside." "Huh? Corporal Sozier didn't say nothing -- " "You're right, Jake. That leaves it to our discretion." "He won't like it." "The corporal's a busy man, Jake. We won't worry him by telling him about it." Jake followed Retief up the walk. The broad double doors were locked. "Let's try the back." The narrow door set in the high blank wall opened as Retief approached. A gun barrel poked out, followed by a small man with bushy red hair. He looked Retief over. "Who's this party, Jake?" he barked. "Sozier said show him the plant," Jake said. "What we need is more guys to pull duty, not tourists. Anyway, Fm Chief Engineer here. Nobody comes in here 'less I like their looks." Relief moved forward, stood looking down at the redhead. The little man hesitated, then waved him past. "Lucky for you I like your looks." Inside, Relief surveyed the long room, the giant converter units, the massive busbars. Armed men -- some in uniform, some in work clothes or loud sport shirts -- stood here and there. Other men read meters, adjusted controls or inspected dials. "You've got more guards than workers," Relief said. "Expecting trouble?" The redhead bit the corner from a plug of spearmint. He glanced around the plant. "Things is quiet now; but you never know." "Rather old fashioned equipment isn't it? When was it installed?" "Huh? I dunno. What's wrong with it?" "What's your basic power source, a core sink? Lithospheric friction? Sub-crustal hydralics?" "Beats me. Mister. I'm the boss here, not a dern mechanic." A gray-haired man carrying a clipboard walked past, studied a panel, made notes, glanced up to catch Relief's eye, moved on. "Everything seems to be running normally," 'Relief remarked. "Sure. Why not?" "Records being kept up properly?" "Sure. Some of these guys, all they do is walk around looking at dials and writing stuff on . paper. If it was me, I'd pul 'em to work." Relief strolled over to the grayhaired man, now scribbling before a bank of meters. He glanced at the clipboard. Power off at sunset. Tell Corasol was scrawled in block letters across the record sheet. Relief nodded, rejoined his guard "All right, Jake. Let's have a look at the communications center." Back in the car, headed west. Relief studied the blank windows of ofbeer bars, shooting galleries, tattoo cades, bordellos and half-credit casinos. "Everybody seems to be having fun," he remarked. Jake starea out the window. "Yeah." "Too bad you're on duty, Jake. You could be out there joining in." "Soon as the corporal gets things organized. I'm opening me up a place to show dirty tri-di's. I'll get my share." "Meanwhile, let the rest of 'em have their fun, eh Jake?" "Look, Mister, I been thinking. Maybe you better gimme back that kick-stick you taken outa my gun..." "Sorry, Jake; no can do. Tell me, what was the real cause of the revolution? Not enough to eat? Too much regimentation?" "Naw, we always got plenty to eat. There wasn't none of that regimentation up til! I joined up in the corporal's army." "Rigid class structure, maybe? Educational discrimination?" Jake nodded. "Yeah, it was them schools done it. All the time trying IF to make a feller to some kind of class. Big shots. Know it all. Gonna make us sit around and view tapes. Figgered they was better than us." "And Sozier's idea was you'd take over, and you wouldn't have to be bothered." "Aw, it wasn't Sozier's idea. He ain't the big leader." "here does the big leader keep himself?" "I dunno. I guess he's pretty busy right now." Jake snickered. "Some of them guys call themselves colonels turned out not to know nothing about how to shoot off the guns." "Shooting, eh? I thought it was a sort of peaceful revolution. The managerial class were booted out, and that was that." "I don't know nothing," Jake snapped. "How come you keep trying to get me to say stuff I ain't supposed to talk about? You want to get me in trouble?" #th, you're already in trouble, Jake. But if you stick with me. I'll try to get you out of it. Where exactly did the refugees head for? How did they leave? Must have been a lot of them; I'd say in a city of this size alone, they'd run into the thousands." "I don't know." "Of course, it depends on your definition of a big shot. Who's included in that category, Jake?" "You know, the slick-talking ones; the fancy dressers; the guys that walk around and tell other guys what to do. We do all the work and they get all the big pay." "I suppose that would cover scientists, professional men, executives, technicians of all sorts, engineers, teachers -- all that crowd." "Yeah, them are the ones." "And once you got them out of the way, the regular fellows would have a chance. Chaps that don't spend all their time taking baths and reading books and using big words; good Joes that don't mind picking their noses in public." "We got as much right as anybody -- " "Jake, who's Corasol?" "He's -- I don't know." "I thought I overheard his name somewhere." "Uh, here's the communication center," Jake cut in. Retief swung into a parking lot under a high blank facade. He set the brake and stepped out. "Lead the way, Jake." "Look, Mister, the corporal only wanted me to show you the outside." "Anything to hide, Jake?" Jake shook his head angrily and stamped past Retief. "When I joined up with Sozier, I didn't figger I'd be getting in this kind of mess." "I know, Jake. It's tough. Sometimes it seems like a fellow works harder after he's thrown out the parasites then he did before." A cautious guard let Retief and Jake inside, followed them along bright-lit aisles among consoles, cables, batteries of instruments. Armed men in careless uniforms lounged, watching. Here and there a silent technician worked quietly. Retief paused by one, an elderly man in a neat white coverall, with a purple spot under one eye. "Quite a bruise you've got there," Retief commented heartily. "Power failure at sunset," he added softly. The technician hesitated, nodded and moved on. Back in the car, Retief gave Jake directions. At the end of three hours, he had seen twelve smooth-running, heavily guarded installations. "So far, so good, Jake," he said. "Next stop, Sub-station Number Nine." In the mirror, Jake's face stiffened. "Hey, you can't go down there -- " "Something going on there, Jake?" "That's where -- I mean, no. I don't know." "I don't want to miss anything, Jake. Which way?" "I ain't going down there," Jake said sullenly. Retief braked. "In that case. I'm afraid our association is at an end, Jake." "You mean... you're getting out here?" "No, you are." "Huh? Now wait a minute, Mister! The corporal said I was to stay with you." Retief accelerated. "That's settled, then. Which way?" IV R etief pulled the car to a halt two hundred yards from the periphery of a loose crowd of brownuniformed men who stood in groups scattered across a broad plaza, overflowing into a stretch of manicured lawn before the b:re. functional facade of suh-viatioFKnumbcr Nine. In the midst ot the besieging mob, Sozier's red face and bald head bobbed as he harangued a cluster of greenuniformed men from his place in the rear of a long open car. "What's it all about, Jake?" Retief enquired. "Since the parasites have all left peacefully, I'm having a hard time figuring out who'd be holed up in the pumping station -- and why. Maybe they haven't gotten the word that it's all going to be fun and games from now on." "If the corporal sees you over here -- " "Ah, the good corporal. Glad you mentioned him, Jake. He's the man to see." Retief stepped out of the car and started through the crowd. A heavy lorry loaded with an immense tanlf with the letter H blazoned on its side trundled into the square from a side street, moved up to a position before the building. A smaller car pulled alongside Sozier's limousine. The driver stepped down, handed something to Sozier. A moment later, Sozier's amplified voice boomed across the crowd. "You in there, Corasol! This is General Sozier, and I'm warning you to come out now or you and your smart friends are in for a big surprise. You think I won't blast you out because I don't want to wreck the planet. You see the tank aboard the lorry that just pulled up? It's full of gas -- and I got plenty of hoses out here to pump it inside with. I'll put men on the roof and squirt it in the ventilators." Sozier's voice echoed and died. The militiamen eyed the station. Nothing happened. "I know you can hear me, damn IF you!" Sozier squalled. "You'd better get the doors open and get out here fast!" Relief stepped to Sozier's side. "Say, Corporal, I didn't know you went in for practical jokes." Sozier jerked around to gape at Relief. "What are you doing here!" he burst out. "I told Jake -- where is that -- " "Jake didn't like the questions I was asking," Relief said, "so he marched me up here to report to you." "Jake, you damn fool!" Sozier roared. "I got a good mind -- " #CT disagree, Sozier," Relief cut A in. "I think you're a complete imbecile. Sitting out here in the open yelling at the top of your lungs, for example. Corasol and his party might get annoyed and spray that fancy car you've swiped with something a lot more painful than words." "Eh?" Sozier's head whipped around to stare at the building. "Isn't that a gun I see sticking out?" Sozier dropped. "Where?" "My mistake. Just a foreign particle on my contact lenses." Relief leaned on the car. "On the other hand, Sozier, most murderers are sneaky about it. I think making a public announcement is a nice gesture on your part. The Monitors won't have any trouble deciding who to hang when they come in to straighten out this mess." Sozier scrambled back onto his seat. "Monitors?" he snarled. "I don't think so. I don't think you'll be around to do any blabbering to anybody." He raised his voice. "Jake! March this spy over to the sidelines. If he tries anything, shoot him!" He gave Relief a baleful grin. "I'll lay the body out nice and ship it back to your cronies. Accidents will happen, you know. It'll be a week or two before they get around to following up -- and by then I'll have this little problem under control." Jake looked at Relief uncertainly, fingering his empty rifle. Relief put his hands up. "I guess you got me, Jake," he said. "Careful of that gun, now." Jake glanced at Sozier, gulped, aimed the rifle at Relief and nodded toward the car. As Relief moved off, a murmur swept across the crowd. Relief glanced back. A turret on the station roof was rotating slowly. A shout rose; men surged away from the building, scuffling for way; Sozier yelled. His car started up, moved forward, horns blaring. As Relief watched, a white stream arced up from the turret, catching the sun as it spanned the lawn, plunged down to strike the massed men in a splatter of spray. It searched across the mob, came to rest on Sozier's car. Uniformed men scrambled for safety as the terrified driver gunned the heavy vehicle. The hose followed the car, dropping a solid stream of water on Sozier, kicking and flailing in the back seat. As the car passed from view, down a side street, water was overflowing the sides. "The corporal will feel all the better for an invigorating swim in his mobile pool," Retief commented. "By the way, Jake, I have to be going now. It wouldn't be fair to send you back to your boss without something to back up your story that you were outnumbered, so -- " Retief s left fist shot out to connect solidly with Jake's jaw. Jake dropped the gun and sat down hard. Retief turned and headed for the pumping station. The hose had shut down now. A few men were standing, eyeing the building anxiously. Others watched his progress across the square. As Retief passed, he caught scattered comments: " -- seen that bird before." " -- where he's headed." " -- feller Sozier was talking to..." "Hey, you!" Retief was on the grass now. Ahead, the blank wall loomed up. He walked on briskly. "Stop that jasper!" a shout rang out. There was a sharp whine and a black spot appeared on the wall ahead. Near it, a small personnel door abruptly swung inward. Retief sprinted, plunged through the opening as a second shot seared the paint on the doorframe. The door clanged behind him. Retief glanced over the half dozen men confronting him. he said. "Which of you gentlemen is Manager-General Corosol?" C orasol was a tall, wide-shouldered man of fifty, with shrewd eyes, a ready smile, capable-looking hands and an urbane manner. He and Retief sat at a table at one side of the large room, under a maze of piping, tanks and valves. Corasol poured amber fluid into square glass tumblers. "We spotted you by the blazer," he said. "Baby blue and gold braid stand out in a crowd." Retief nodded. "The uniform has its uses," he agreed. He tried the drink. "Say, what is this? It's not bad." "Sugarweed rum. Made from a marine plant. We have plenty of ocean here on Glave; there's only the one continent, you know, and it's useless for agriculture." "Weather?" "That's part of it. Glave is moving into what would be a major glaciation if it weren't for a rather elaborate climatic control installation. Then there are the tides. Half the continent would be inundated twice a year when our satellite is at aphelion; there's a system of baffles, locks and deep-water pumps that maintain the shore-line more or less constant. We still keep our cities well inland. Then there are the oxygen generators, the atmosphere filtration complex, vermin control and so on. Glave in its natural state is a rather hostile world." "I'm surprised that your mines can support it all." "Oh, they don't." Corasol shook his head. "Two hundred years ago, when the company first opened up Glave, it was economical enough. Quintite was a precious mineral in those days. Synthetics have long since taken over. Even fully automated, the mines barely support the public services and welfare system." IF "I seem to recall a reference in the Post Report to the effect that a company petition to vacate its charter had been denied... Corasol nodded, smiling wryly. long as any of the world's residents desired to remain, the Company was constrained to oblige them. The great majority departed long ago, of course. Relocated to other operational areas. Only the untrainables, living off welfare funds -- and a skeleton staff of single men to operate the technical installations -- have stayed on." "That explains the mechanics of the recent uprising," Retief said. The bottle clinked against glasses for a second round. "What about the good corporal?" Retief asked. "Assuming he's a strong swimmer, you should be hearing from him soon." Corasol glanced at his finger watch. "I imagine he'll be launching his gas attack any minute." "The prospect doesn't seem to bother you." "Sozier is a clever enough chap in his own way," Corasol said. "But he has a bad habit of leaping to conclusions. He's gotten hold of a tank of what someone has told him is gas -- as indeed it is. Hydrogen, for industrial use. It seems the poor fellow is under the impression that anything masquerading as gas will have a lethal effect." "He may be right -- if he pumps it in fast enough." "Oh, he won't be pumping it. Not after approximately five minutes from now." "Hmmm. I think I'm beginning to see the light. 'Power off at sunset.' " Corasol nodded. "I don't think he realizes somehow that all his vehicles are operating off broadcast power." "Still, he has a good-sized crowd of hopefuls with him. How do you plan to get through them?" "We don't. We go under. There's an extensive system of service ways underlying the city; another detail which I believe has escaped the corporal's notice." "You'll be heading for the port?" "Yes -- eventually. First, we have a few small chores to see to. Sozier has quite a number of our technical men working at gun point to keep various services going." Retief nodded. "It won't be easy breaking them out. I made a fast tour of the city this afternoon. Locked doors, armed guards -- " "Oh, the locks are power-operated, too. Our fellows will know what to do when the power fails. I think the sudden darkness will eliminate any problem from the guards." The lights flickered and died. The whine of the turbines was suddenly noticeable, descending. Faint cries sounded from outside. Corasol switched on a small portable lantern. "All ready, gentlemen?" he called, rising. "Let's move out. We want to complete this operation before dawn." F our hours later, Retief stood with Corasol in a low-ceilinged a central glare strip, watching as the last of the column of men released from forced labor in the city's utilities installations filed past. A solidly-built man with pale blond hair came up, breathing hard. "How did it go, Taine?" Corasol asked. "They're beginning to catch on, Mr. Corasol. We had a brisk time of it at Station Four. Everybody's clear now. No one killed, but we had a few injuries." Corasol nodded. "The last few crews in have reported trouble. Ah -- what about -- " Taine shook his head. "Sorry, sir. No trace. No one's seen them. But they're probably at the port ahead of us, hiding out. They'd know we'd arrive eventually." "I suppose so. You sent word to them well in advance..." "Suppose I stand by here with a few men. We'll patrol the tunnels in case they show up. We have several hours before daylight." "Yes. I'll go along and see to the preparations at Exit Ten. We'll make our sortie at oh-five-hundred. If you haven't seen anything of them by then ." "I'm sure they're all right." "They'd better be." Corasol said grimly. "Let's be off. Relief." "If it's all the same to you, Mr. Manager-General. I'll stay here with Taine. I'll join you later " "As you wish. I don't imagine there'll be any trouble -- but if there lend a certain air to the operation." He smiled, shook Retief's hand and moved off along the tunnel. The echo of feet and voices grew faint, faded to silence. Taine turned to the three men detailed to him, conversed briefly, sent them off along branching corridors. He glanced at Retief. "Mr. Retief, you're a diplomat. This errand is not a diplomatic one." "I've been on a few like that, too, Mr. Taine." Taine studied Retief's face. "I can believe that," he said. "However, I think you'd better rejoin the main party." "I might be of some use here, if your missing men arrive under fire." "Missing men?" Tine's mouth twisted in a sour smile. "You fail to grasp the picture, Mr. Retief. There'll be no missing men arrivmg. "Oh? I understood you were waiting here to meet them." "Not men, Mr. Retief. It happens that Corasol has twin daughters, aged nineteen. They haven't been seen since the trouble began." V H alf an hour passed. Retief leaned against the tunnel wall, arms folded, smoking a cigar in silence. Taine paced, ten yards up the corridor, ten yards back... "You seem nervous, Mr. Taine," Retief said. Taine stopped pacing, eyed Retief coldly. "You'd better go along now," he said decisively. "Just follow the main tunnel. It's about a mile." "Plenty of time yet, Mr. Taine." Retief smiled and drew on his cigar. "Your three men are still out." "They won't be back here. We'll rendezvous at Exit Ten." "Am I keeping you from something, Taine?" IF "I can't be responsible for your safety if you stay here." "Oh? You think I might fall victim to an accident?" Taine narrowed his eyes. "It could happen," he said harshly. "Where were the girls last seen?" Retief asked suddenly. "How would I know?" "Weren't you the one who got word to them?" "Maybe you'd better keep out of this." "You sent your men off; now you're eager to see me retire to a safe position. Why the desire for solitude, Taine? You wouldn't by any chance have plans?" "That's enough," Taine snapped. "On your way. That's an order!" "There are some aspects of this situation that puzzle me, Mr. Taine. Mr. Corasol has explained to me how he and his Division Chiefs -- including you -- were surprised in the executive suite at Planetary Central by a crowd of Sozier's bully-boys. They came in past the entire security system without an alarm. Corasol and the others put up a surprisingly good fight and made it to the service elevators -- and from there to the sub-station. There was even time to order an emergency alert to the entire staff -- but somehow, they were all caught at their stations and kept on the job at gun point. Now, I should think that you, as Chief of Security as well as Communications, should have some ideas as to how all this came about." "Are you implying -- " "Let me guess, Taine. You have a deal with Sozier. He takes over, ousts the legal owners, and sets himself up to live off the fat of the land, with you as his technical chief. Then, I imagine, you'd find it easy enough to dispose of Sozier -- and you'd be in charge." W ithout warning Taine put his head down arid charged. Retief dropped his cigar, sidestepped and planted a solid right on Taine's jaw. He staggered, went to his hands and knees. "I suppose you'd like to get word to Sozier that his work force is arriving at the port at oh-five-hundred," Retief said. "Of course, he'll want to have a good-sized reception committee on hand as they come out." Taine plunged to his feet, threw a vicious left that went past Retief's ear, then abruptly dropped, clamped a lock on Retief's leg, twisted -- The two men rolled, came to rest with Taine on top, Retief facedown, his arm bent back and doubled. Taine, red-faced and puffing, grunted as he applied pressure. "You know a lot about me," he grated, "but you overlooked the fact that I've been Glavian Judo champion for the past nine years." "You're a clever man, Taine," Retief said between clenched teeth. "Too clever to think it will work." "It will work. Glave's never had too small. Corasol invited your Embassy in because he had an idea there was something in the wind. That forced my hand. I've had to move hastily. But by the time I invite observers in to see for themselves, everything will be running smoothly. I can even afford to let Corasol and the others go -- I'll have hostages for his good behavior." "You've been wanting to boast about it to someone who could appreciate your cleverness, I see. Sozier must be an unappreciative audience." "Sozier's a filthy pig -- but he had his uses." "What do you plan to do now?" "I've been wondering that myself -- but I think the best solution is to simply break your arm for now. You should be easy to control then. It's quite simple. I merely apply pressure, thus..." "Judo is a very useful technique," Relief said. "But in order to make it work, you have to be a pretty good man..." He moved suddenly, shifting his position. Taine grabbed, holding Relief's arm by the wrist and elbow, his own arm levering Relief's back, back... Relief twisted onto his side, then his back. Tiane grunted, following the movemwit, straining. Slowly, Relief sat up against Taine's weight. Then, with a surge, he straightened his arm. Taine's grip broke. Relief came to his feet. Taine scrambled up in time to meet a clean uppercut that snapped him. onto his back -- out cold. # # A h, there you are," Relief said as Taine's eyes fluttered and opened. "You've had a nice nap -- almost fifteen minutes. Feeling better?" Taine snarled, straining against the bonds on his wrists. "Gold braid has its uses," Relief commented. "Now that you're back, perhaps you can answer a question a question for me. What's the Birthday Cake?" Taine spat. Relief went to stand over him. "Time is growing short, Mr. Taine. It will be dawn in another two hours. I can't afford the luxury of coaxing you." "You won't get away will) this." Relief looked at the glowing end of his cigar. "This won't be subtle, I agree -- but it will work." "You're bluffing." Relief leaned closer. "In my place -- would you hesitate?" he asked softly. Taine cursed, struggled to break free, eyes on the cigar. "What kind of diplomat are you?" he snarled. "The modern variety. Throat-cutting, thumb-screws, poison and stiletto work were popular in Machiavelli's time; nowadays we go in more for the administrative approach -- but the cigar-end still has its role." "Look, we can come to an agreement -- " "What's the Birthday Cake?" Relief snapped. "I'm in a position to do a lot for you!" "Last chance -- " "It's the official Residence of the Manager-General!" Taine screeched, writhing away from the cigar. "Where is it? Talk fast!" "You'll never get close! There's a seven-foot wall and by this time the grounds are swarming with Sozier's men." IF "Nevertheless, I want to know where it is -- and the information had better be good. If I don't come back, you'll have a long wait." Taine groaned. "All right. Put that damned cigar away. I'll tell you what I can..." R elief stood in the shadow of a vine-grown wall, watching the relief of the five-man guard detail at the main gate to the Residence grounds. The bluish light of the Glavian satellite reflected from the rainpocked street, glinted from the leaves of a massive tree ten yards from the gate. The chill in the air cut through Retief's wet clothes. The men at the gate huddled, hands in pockets, coat collars turned up, backs to the wind -- and to Relief. He moved silently forward, caught a low branch of the tree, pulled himself up. The men at the gate exchanged muttered remarks. One lit a cigarette. Relief waited, then moved higher. The guards talked in low voices, edged closer to the shelter of the gate-house. Relief lowered himself onto the wall, dropped down onto the sodden lawn, crouched, waiting. There was no alarm. Through ihe trees the dark shape of the house loomed up, its top storey defiantly ablaze with lights. Relief moved off silently, from the shadow of one tree to the next, swinging in an arc that would bring him to the rear of the great round structure. He froze as the heavy footfalls of one of Sozier's pickets slogged past five yards from him, then moved on. The glow of a campfire flickered near the front of the house. Relief could make out the shapes of men around it -- a dozen or two, at least. Probably as many more warmed themselves at each of the other fires visible on the grounds -- and most of the rest had doubtless found dryer shelter in the lee of the house itself. Relief reached the conservatory at the rear of the house, studied the dark path leading to the broad terrace, picked out the squat shape of the utilities manifold behind a screen of shrubbery. So far, Taine's information had been accurate. The next step was to -- There was a faint sound from high above, followed by a whoosh! Then with a sharp crack! a flare appeared overhead, rocking gracefully, flosting down gently under a small parachute. Below it, inky shadows rocked in unison. In the raw white light. Relief counted eighteen men clinging to handholds on the side of the house, immobile in the pitiless glare. Above them, a face appeared, then a second, peering over the edge of the fourth-storey gallery. Both figures rose, unlimbering four-foot bows, fitting arrows to strings -- Whok! Whok! Two men lost their holds and fell, yelling, to slam into the heavy shrubbery. A second flight of arrows found marks. Relief watched from the shadows as man after man dropped to flounder in the wet foliage. Several jumped before the deadly bows were turned on them. As the flare faded, the last of the men plunged down to crash among their fellows. Retief stepped ovty ran swiftly to the manifold, forcing his way among the closegrowing screen, scrambled to its top. His hand fell on a spent arrow. He picked it up. It was a stout wooden shaft twenty inches long, terminating in a rubber suction cup. Retief snorted, dropped the arrow and started up. VI T wenty feet above ground level, the wide windows of the third floor sun terrace presented a precarious handhold as Retief swung back a foot and kicked in a panel. Inside, he dimly made out the shape of a broad carpeted room, curving out of sight in both directions. There were wide-leaved tropical plants in boxes, groups of padded chairs, low tables with bowls of fruit. Retief made his way past them, found an inner door, went into a dark hall. At the far end, voices exchanged shouted questions. Feet pounded. A flicker of light from a hand lantern splashed across the wall, disappeared. Retief found a stair, went up it noiselessly. According to Taine, the elevator to the top floor apartment should be to the left -- Retief flattened himself to the wall. Footsteps sounded near at hand. He moved quickly to a doorway. There was a murmur of voices, the wavering light of lanterns. A party of uniformed men tiptoed past a cross corridor, struggling under the weight of a massive log, two feet in diameter and twelve feet long... on signal, hit it all together. Then... someone was saying. Retief waited, listening. There was the creak of a door, the fumbling of awkwardly laden feet on a stair, hoarse breathing, a muffled curse. "... got my fingers, you slob!" a voice snarled. "Shaddup!" another voice hissed. There was a long moment of silence, then a muffled command -- followed an instant later By a thunderous crash, a shout -- cut off abruptly by a ponderous blaml followed instantly by a roar like a burst dam, mingled with yells, thumps, crashes. A foamy wash of water surged along the cross corridor, followed a moment later by a man sliding on his back, then another, two more, the log, fragments of a door, more men. In the uproar, Retief moved along to the elevator, felt over the control panel, located a small knurled button. He turned it. The panel came away. He fumbled cautiously, found a toggle switch, flipped it. A light sprang up in the car. Instantly Retief flipped the light switch; the glow faded. He waited. No alarm. Men were picking themselves up, shouting... them broads dropped a hundred-gallon bag of water..." Someone complained. "... up there fast, men. We got the door okay!" Feet thumped. Yells sounded. "No good, Wes! They got a safe or something in the way!" Retief silently closed the lift door, pressed the button. With a sigh, the car slid upward, came to a gentle IF stop. He eased the door open, looked out into a dim-lit entrance hall. Footsteps sounded beyond a door. He waited; the clack of high heels crossing a floor. Retief stepped out of the car, went to the door, glanced into a spacious lounge with rich furniture, deep rugs, paintings, a sweep of glass, and in an alcove at the far side, a bar. Retief crossed the room, poured a stiff drink into a paper-thin glass and drained it. The high-heeled steps were coming back now. A door opened. Two leggy young women in shorts, with red-gold hair bound back by ribbons -- one green, one blue -- stepped into the room. One girl held a coil of insulated wire; the other, a heavylooking gray-enameled box eight inches on a side. "Now, see if you can tinker that generator to get a little more juice, Lyn," the girl with the wire said. "I'll start stringing..." Her voice died as she caught sight of Retief. He raised his glass, thing to put out about a thousand "My compliments, ladies. I see you're keeping yourselves amused."  faltered. "My narhe's Retief. Your father sent me along to carry your bags. It's lucky I arrived when I did, before any of those defenseless chaps outside were seriously injured." "You're not... one of them?" "Of course he's not, Lyn," the second girl said. "He's much too goodlooking." "That's good," Lyn said crisply. "I didn't want to have to use this thing." She tossed a bright-plated # mm needier onto a chair and sat down. "Dad's all right, isn't he?" "He's fine, and we've got to be going. Tight schedule, you know. And you'd better get some clothes on. It's cold outside." Lyn nodded. "Environmental Control went off the air six hours ago. You can already feel snow coming." "Don't you suppose we have time to just rig up one little old circuit?" the other twin wheedled. "Nothing serious; just enough to tickle." . "We planned to wire all the window frames, the trunk we used to block the stair, the lift shaft -- " "And then we thought we'd try to drop a loop down and pick up the gallery guard rail, and maybe some of that wrought-iron work around the front of the house -- " "Sorry, girls; no time." Five minutes later, the twins were ready, wrapped in fur robes. Retief had exchanged his soaked blazer for a down-lined weatherproof. "The lift will take us all the way down, won't it?" he asked. Lyn nodded. "We can go out through the wine cellar." Retief picked up the needier and handed it to Lyn. "Hang on to this," he said. "You may need it yet." A cold wind whipped the ramp as dawn lightened the sky. "It's hard to believe," Corasol said. "What made him do it?" "He saw a chance to own it all." "He can have it," Corasol's communicator beeped. He put it to his ear. "Everything's ship-shape and ready to lift," a tiny voice said. Corasol turned to Retief. "Let's go aboard." "Hold it," Retief said. "There's someone coming." Corasol spoke into the communiThe man slogging across the concator. "Keep him covered." Crete was short, wrapped in heavy garments. Over his head a white cloth fluttered from a stick. "From the set of those bat-ears, I'd ay it was the good corporal." "I wonder what he wants." Sozier stopped twenty feet from Retief and Corasol. "I want to... ah... talk to you, Corasol," he said. "Certainly, General. Go right ahead." "Look here, Corasol. You can't do this. My men will freeze. We'll starve. I've been thinking it over, and I've decided that we can reach an understanding." Corasol waited. "I mean, we can get together on this thing. Compromise. Maybe I acted a little hasty." Sozier looked from Corasol to Retief. "You're from tee his people full rights..." Retief puffed at his cigar in silence. Sozier started again. "Look, I'll give you a full voice in running things. A fifty-fity split. Whatta you say?" "I'm afraid  the proposal doesn't interest me. General," Corasol said. "Never mind the General stuff," Sozier said desperately. "Listen, you can run it. Just give me and my boys a little say-so." "Sorry." Corasol shook his head. "Not interested. General." "Okay, okay! You win! Just come on back and get things straightened out! I got a belly full of running things!" "I'm afraid I have other plans. General. For some time I've wanted to transfer operations to a world called Las Palmas on which we hold a charter. It has a naturally delightful climate, and I'm told the fishing is good. I leave Glave to the Free Electorate with my blessing. Goodby, General." He turned to. the ship. "You got to stay here!" Sozier howled. "We'll complain to the I'm a Corporal -- " "You're a General now -- whether you like it or not." Corasol said bluntly. He shivered. There was a hint of ice in the air. "If you or any of your men ever decide to go to work. General, I daresay we can train you for employment on Las Palmas. In the meantime -- Long Live the Revolution!" "You can't do this! I'll sue!" "Calm down. Sozier," Retief said. "Go back to town and see if you can get your radio working. Put in a call for Mr. Magnan aboard the It will make his day. And a word of advice: Mr. Magnan hates a piker -- so ask for plenty." #V yTy boy, I'm delighted," Am-L  A bassador Stern wheeler boomed. "A highly professional piece of work. A stirring testimonial to the value of the skilled negotiator!" "You're too kind, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said, glancing at his watch. IF "And Magnan tells me that not only will the Mission be welcomed, and my job secure for another year -- that is, I shall have an opportunity to serve -- but a technical mission has been requested as well. I shall look forward to meeting General Sozier. He sounds a most reasonable chap." "Oh, you'll like him, Mr. Ambasshare all you have." Counsellor of Embassy Magnan tapped and entered the office. "Forgive the intrusion, Mr. Ambassador," he said breathlessly, "but I must -- " "Well, what is it, man? The deal hasn't gone sour?" "Oh, far from it! I've been exploring General Sozier's economic situation with him via scope, and it seems he'll require a loan." "Yes, yes? How much?" Magnan inhaled proudly. "Twen"No!" "Yes!" "Magnificent! Good lord, Magnan, you're a genius! This will mean promotions all around. Why, the administrative Iqad alone -- " "I can't wait to make planetfall, Mr. Ambassador. I'm all a-bubble with plans. I hope they manage to get the docking facilities back in operation soon." "Help is on the way, my dear Magnan. I'm assured the Environmental Control installations will be coming back in operation again within a year or two." "My, didn't those ice-caps form quickly. And in the open sea." "Mere scum ice. As my Counsellor for Technical Affairs, you'll be in charge of the ice-breaking operation once we're settled in. I imagine you'll want to spend considerable time in the field. I'll be expecting a record of how evety credit is spent." "I'm more the executive type," Magnan said. "Possibly Retief -- " A desk speaker hummed. "Mr. Corasol's lighter has arrived to ferry Mr. Retief across to the Company ship..." "Sorry you won't be with us, Retief," Sternwheeler said heartily. He turned to Magnan. "Manager-General Corasol has extended Retief an exequatur as Consul General to Las Palmas." R etief nodded. "Much as I'd like to be out in that open boat with you, breaking ice, I'm afraid duty calls elsewhere." "Your own post? I'm not sure he's experienced enough, Mr. Ambassador. Now, I -- " "He was requested by name, Magnan. It seems the Manager-General's children took a fancy to him." "Eh? How curious. I never thought you were particularly interested in infant care, Retief." "Perhaps I haven't been, Mr. Magnan." Retief draped his short blue cape over his left arm and turned to the door. "But remember the diplomat's motto: be adaptable..." IF  Short Story We've taughf the dolphins English. Sooner or later, though, there may be something for T hough he was used to the tropical sun, a sliver of light reflected from one of the laboratory windows stabbed into Craven's head as he crossed the walkway, leading his little group of mamlanders. He felt uneasy and feverish, more than the previous night's drinking would account for. Perhaps he was coming down with something, God forbid. It would be a rotten time for it, with the rest of the staff over in Charlotte Amalie for the weekend. them to teach us! "What time did you say that plane's coming from Miami?" asked the gray, paunchy man with the clipped mustache. Hurrying to catch up with Craven, and glancing at his wristwatch, he stumbled and swore. "I ought to be back in New York right now. I hate to be out of the country with the situation the way it is." "Two-fifteen," said Craven shortly. "You'll have plenty of time." "What do you think about the IF crisis, Dr. Craven?" one of the women asked. She was plump and grayhaired. 'Aren't you worried to be out here all by yourself? My goodness, I would be." "Oh, I expect it'll blow over," Craven said indifferently. "They always do." "Well, that's right, they always have, the paunchy man said, sounding relieved. He paused, squinting his eyes to peer out past the white concrete pens to the harbor. "Saw something jump out there. There's another. Are those some of the animals?" "Yes, those are the dolphins," Craven said. Irritably he strode forward to open the laboratory door. "This way, please." Inside, it was cooler than outdoors, but full of sunlight from the big windows overlooking the sea. On the wall was an alphabet chart, with brightly colored pictures of simple objects. The floor was a concrete slab, cut away across the far side of the room to form a channel open at both ends. The water in the channel rose and fell with a slow, vertiginous surge. Craven's head was beginning to ache. "Here's where we do most of our work with the dolphins," he said. "Just a moment, I'll see if I can get one for you.". He stepped to a wall panel, pressed a switch, and spoke into the microphone. "Pete, this is Charles. Come in, please." A quacking gabble of sound from the wall speaker answered him. "Okay, come on in," Craven said, and switched off the mike. "What was that?" one of the matrons demanded. "Was that one of the dolphins talking? Craven smiled. "That's right. That was Pete, our star pupil. Look out the window. And stand back a little from the channel, please." There was a nervous shuffling of feet as some of the visitors moved away from the edge, others crowded closer to the windows. Down the concrete channel that led past the pens directly to the wall of the laboratory, something gray ws moving with surprising speed. It was submerged, but kicked up an occasional burst of spray. The visitors began to murmur in alarm; some backed away from the window. "Look out!" someone yelled. The gray shape burst into the room; the water in the channel lifted as if about to overflow, then fell back with a slapping sound. There was a shriek, then nervous laughter. I n the channel, balancing itself half out of the water, was a streamlined, water-bright shape. It spoke, in the same quacking gabble as before. "Okay, Pete," Craven said. "Out you come." "Was it really talking? someone asked behind him. "Could you understand what it said?" Craven, without bothering to reply, pressed a switch on the control panel. Out of a recess in the wall came an electric hoist supporting a curved, heavily braced metal platform. The platform lowered itself into the water; the dolphin swam into position over it. Craven pressed another switch; the platform rose. IF streaming water. The hoist moved forward again, then lowered its passenger onto a wheeled framework that stood beside the channel. There was a click. The supporting arms of the hoist rose out of the way. On the platform, which now formed the bed of the wheeled cart, lay a bulky eight-foot mammal. One eye was cocked alertly at Craven. The mouth, open in what seemed a pleasant smile, was full of sharp conicnl teeth. "Goodness!" said one of the women. "I hope he doesn't bite!" "Dolphins have never been known to attack a human being," Craven said perfunctorily. He pressed a button on the control panel. "Say hello to our visitors, Pete." The dolphin glanced alertly at the people standing behind Craven, then emitted one of its high-pitched bursts of sound. To Craven's accustomed ear the words were blurred but understandable. To the others, he knew, they were only noise. Ho pressed another button on the panel. After a moment, the dolphin's recorded voice, slowed down and deeper in pitch, came out of the speaker. "Hello, lai'ss and ge'men." There was a general murmur, some nervous laughter, one clear voice: "What did he say?" "His mouth didn't move when he talked," someone commented suspiciously. Craven grinned. "He doesn't use it for talking. That's for fish. He talks through his blowhole -- there, on the top of his head. Come on over, Pete, let's have a look at you." Obediently, the dolphin glided nearer on his cart, trailing a long plastic hose. Sprays of water had begun to spurt out of perforated tubes along either side of the cart, making the dolphin's skin gleam wetly. Out of this tiny personal rainstorm, .the dolphin stared up at the visitors with friendly interest. "He's shaped just like a jet plane!" one of the male visitors remarked. "Look at the curve of m head and, uh, snout -- " Craven smiled at the man. "Similar solutions for similar problems," he said. "Pete's streamlined, just like a pet. He's a bottle-nosed dolphin -- Tursions truncatus -- the same species Lilly used in his original work. He weighs about four hundred pounds; his brain is a little bigger than a man's. Pete is more intelligent than a dog or a monkey. He can not only understand commands in English -- he can talk back to us. That's why we feel this research is so important. What we're doing is teaching another species to enter the human community." T here was a moment of impressed silence. That will hold them, Craven thought. "What are all the gadgets for?" another man asked. "He controls the cart motors with those bars under his flukes," Craven said. "The other levers on either side are for manipulation -- he works those with his flippers. Pete's great lack is that he hasn't any hands or feet, you see -- but we're trying to make up for that. Show them, Pete, okay?" Okay, Charless," said the dolphin cheerfully. The cart wheeled, glided across the floor to the low bench on the far side, leaving a wet path behind it. Jointed arms extended from the front of the cart, groped for a pointer, picked it up in metal pincers. "Show us the apple, Pete," Craven said. The pointer rose, wavered, came to rest with its tip on the bright picture of an apple on the wall chart. "Now the boy," Craven said. There were murmurs of admiration as the dolphin pointed to the boy, the dog, the boat. "Now spell cat, Pete," said Craven. The pointer spelled out C-A-T "Good boy, Pete," Craven said. "Plenty of fish for you today." The dolphin opened his jaws wide, emitted a Bronx cheer, then a burst of cracklin? dolphin laughter. There was a nervous stir among the visitors. "You said dolphins have never been known to attack a person," said a gray-eyed girl. It was the first time she had spoken, but Craven had been aware of her; she was slender and pretty, held herself very erect. "That's right," he said, facing her. "It isn't that they couldn't -- you know they kill sharks -- but they just never have." "Even when people have hurt them?" she asked. Her gray eyes were sober. "That's correct," Craven said. "And it's true, isn't it, that many dolphins have been killed in the course of this research?" Craven felt a little irritated. "There were some fatalities, before we learned how to handle them," he said shortly. He turned away. "Now let's try something more difficult. Show them the chemistry experiment, Pete." As the dolphin turned toward the bench again. Craven commented, "This is something Pete has just been learning. We're pretty proud of it." On the bench was a little stand with several stoppered bottles, a beaker and a row of test tubes. Controlling the jointed arms with his flippers, the dolphin reached out, picked up a bottle and pulled the stopper. One set of metal pincers held the bottle; the other picked up a test tube. Slowly Pete made the bottle pour into the test tube. It ran full and spilled over. The dolphin rocked back and forth nervously in his cart. "Okay, Pete," Craven said soothingly. "Don't get nervous -- it's all right -- go ahead." The dolphin set the bottle down with a crash, poured the contents of the test tube into the beaker. The pincers reached for another bottle, slipped and tried again. They got the bottle on the second try, tilted it but missed the test tube. Overcorrecting, the dolphin crashed bottle and test tube together, and the test tube broke. The bottle dropped, spilled. The dolphin backed his cart away, swiveled toward Craven. "Too hard. Charless," he said plaintively. "Too hard." Craven's fists clenched with disappointment. The creature had done it perfectly on the last three tries! IF "Never mind, Pete," he said. "It's okay -- you did fine. Go on out and play now." "All finiss?" Pete asked. "Yes. So long." "So long." The dolphin wheeled his cart around, glided over to the edge of the channel. The jointed arms retracted. The cart bed tilted slowly; the dolphin slid off it into the water, almost without a splash. There was a glimpse of his gray body darting underwater; then the channel was empty. O n the way down to the seaplane, Craven found himself walking beside the gray-eyed girl. "Well, what did you make of it all?" he asked her. "I thought it was pathetic" she said. Her gray eyes were indignant. "You talk about making them enter the human community. It's all wrong! He's a dolphin, not a man. He was trying so hard, but the best you could turn him into was something like a retarded, crippled child. I felt so sorry." After the visitors were gone. Craven was restless. He kept remembering what the girl had said; there was just enough truth in it to make it rankle. His headache had not improved. The sunlight was still oppressive. He prowled through his living quarters, glanced with distaste at the black headlines of the day-old Miami paper, finally turned on the television. "... initials stand for 'non-radioactive heat emitters,' " a chubby, gray-haired man was saying, enunciating each word clearly. "Now the question is, what would be the consequences to us if these weapons -- " His voice cut off suddenly and a for a moment. Craven lit a cigarette and waited patiently: probably it was something more about the interminable peace talks in New Delhi. A voice said abruptly, "We interrupt this program to bring you -- " Then it stopped, and the placard vanished. There was nothing on the screen but a raster, and nothing but a hiss coming out of the speaker. After a moment Craven put his cigarette down and punched the channel selector. There was nothing on any of the channels except #, where a faint gray picture came in for a moment, then vanished. Craven stared at the machine, feeling abruptly frightened. If there was something wrong with the set, then why would channel I # -- ? He discovered that he was shaking. Without trying to understand what he was doing, he began to rip off his shirt and trousers. Naked except for shoes, he ran to the locker, pulled out mask, flippers, air tanks and regulator. The sky was bright and empty as he ran toward the dock -- not even a plane in sight. Craven shrugged into his harness, buckled it hastily. He glanced toward the buoy that marked the underwater station, then dropped into the water. Halfway out toward the station, swimming two fathoms deep. Craven knew he had been right. A sudden hissing patter came above him. #  and looking up, transfixed, he saw a shower of golden sparks descending, each in its furious cloud of bubbles. One came so near that he felt its heat on his skin. He writhed from it, staring incredulously as it fell to the bottom ten fathoms below. It came to Craven's stunned mind that the thing that must not happen had happened: someone had used the weapons that were too terrible for use. T he underwater station was in sixteen fathoms, as deep as it could have been built without pressurizing the dome. It stood on a rocky shelf in deep water, and although several of the golden sparks had fallen around it, none seemed to have clung to the dome. Craven swam to the lock, let himself in, and sat hugging himself, shaken by chills, as air slowly filled the chamber. Inside, he stared wildly around. He heard himself say aloud, "My God, what am I going to do?" Scraps of information from other TV broadcasts came back to his mind. Those infernal little pellets would go on emitting heat for months. And this must be only an accidental scattering: on the mainland, in populated centers, they would have fallen thick as hail... There was a compressor here in the station and a tide-driven standby generator; he could recharge his tanks indefinitely; but what about food, after ihe canned stuff on the shelves was gone? Fish. Craven felt weak with reaction, but could not be still. He adjusted his mask and mouthpiece again, went out through the lock. There seemed to be no more of the pellets on the bottom than before, and none were falling. Craven plucked up his courage, swam to the surface. Treading water, he put his mask up to stare at the island. The laboratories were in flames. Behind them, the mountain was one mass of yellowish-white smoke: the whole island was on fire. The sky seemed empty, but Craven could not endure its gigantic blue stare. He lowered his mask and dived again. Down in the clear blue depths. Craven heard the high-pitched gabble of dolphin conversation, and once or twice saw their gray shapes flitting by. A school of plump blues swam into view. Craven started, then went after it. There were spear-guns in the station, but he had not thought to bring one. He swam at the fish, grasping ineffectually with his hands, but they scattered easily around him. Vve got to learn, Draven's mind was telling him. This is my element now, the sea -- Tve got to adapt...  Something large and gray swam up toward him. Craven stiffened, but it was only Pete, gazing at him with friendly curiosity. The school of blues had reformed not far away. Abruptly the dolphin wheeled, darted away with a lazy surge of his flukes. In a moment he was gliding back, with a fat bluefish in his jaws. "Look, Charless," he said kindly, "this is the way to catch a fiss..." IF IF  Short Story The work wasn't hard, but there were some sacrifices. You had to give up hope and freedom -- and being human! I T he girt with the Slider egg glittering in her hair watched the bailiff lead Asa Graybar out of the courtroom. He recognized her as old Hazeltyne's daughter Harriet, no doubt come to see justice done. She didn't have the hothouse-flower look Asa would have expected in a girl whose father owned the most valuable of the planetary franchises. She was not afraid to meet his eye, the eye of a judicially certified criminal. There was, perhaps, a crease of puzzlement in her brow, as if she had thought crimes were committed by shriveled, rat-faced types, and not by young biological engineers who still affected crewcuts. Tom Dorr, Hazeltyne's general manager, was her escort. Asa felt certain, without proof, that Dorr was the man who had framed him for the charge of grand theft by secreting a fresh Slider egg in his laboratory. The older man stared at Asa coldly as he was led out of the courtroom and down the corridor back to jail. Jumpy, Asa's cellmate, took one look at his face as he was put back behind bars. "Guilty," Jumpy said. Asa glared at him. "I know, I know," Jumpy said hastily. "You were framed. But what's the rap?" "Five or one." "Take the five," Jumpy advised. "Learn basket-weaving in a nice airconditioned rehab clinic. A year on a changeling deal will seem a lot longer, even if you're lucky enough to live through it." Asa took four steps to the far wall of the cell, stood there briefly with his head bent and turned to face Jumpy "Nope," Asa said softly. "I'm going into a conversion tank. I'm going to be a muck man. Jumpy. I'm going out to Jordan's Planet and hunt Slider eggs." "Smuggling? It won't work." Asa didn't answer. The Hazeltyne company had gone after him because he had been working on a method of keeping Slider eggs alive. The Hazeltyne company would be happy to see him mark time for five years of so-called social reorientation. But if he could get out to Jordan's Planet, with his physiology adapted to the environment of that wretched world, he could studv the eggs under conditions no laboratory could duplicate He might even be able to cause trouble for Hazeltyne. His only problem would be staying alive foi a year. A n interview with a doctor from the Conversion Corps was required for all persons who elected changeling status. The law stated that potential changelings must be fully informed of the rights and hazards of altered shape before they signed a release. The requirement held whether or not the individual, like Asa, was already experienced. By the time humanity traveled to the stars, medical biology had made it possible to regenerate damaged or deficient organs of the body. Regeneration was limited only by advanced age. Sonrietime after a man's two hundredth year his body lost the ability to be coaxed into growing new cells. A fifth set of teeth was usually one's last. As long as senescence could be staved off, however, any man could have bulging biceps and a pencil waist, if he could pay for the treatment. Until the medical associations declared such treatments unethical there was even a short fad of deliberate deformities, with horns at the temples particularly popular. From regeneration it was a short step to specialized regrowth. The techniques were perfected to adapt humans to the dozen barely habitable worlds man had discovered. Even on Mars, the only planet outside Earth in the solar system where the human anatomy was remotely suitable, a man could work more efficiently with redesigned lungs and temperature controls than he could inside a pressure suit. On more bizarre planets a few light-years away the advantages of changeling bodies were greater. IF Unfortunately for planetary development companies, hardly anyone wanted to become a changeling. High pay lured few. So a law was passed permitting a convicted criminal to earn his freedom by putting in one year as a changeling for every five years he would otherwise have had to spend in rehabilitation. "What types of changelings do you have orders for right now, doctor?" Asa asked the man assigned to his case. It would look suspicious if he asked for Jordan's Planet without some preliminary questions. "Four," answered the doctor. "Squiffs for Nev' Arcady. Adapted for climbing the skycraper trees and with the arm structure modified into pseudo-wings or gliding. Then we need spiderinos for Von Neumann Two. If you want the nearest thing we have to Earth, there's Caesar's Moon, where we'd just have to double your tolerance for carbon monoxide and make you a bigger and better gorilla than the natives. Last, of course, there's always a need for muck men on Jordan's Planet." The doctor shrugged, as if naturally no one could be expected to choose Jordan's Planet. Asa frowned in apparent consideration of the alternatives. "What's the pay range?" he asked. "Ten dollars a day on Caesar's Moon. Fifteen on New Arcady or Von Neumann Two. Twenty-five on Jordan's." Asa raised his eyebrows. "Why such a difference? Everyone knows about muck men living in the mud while they hunt Slider eggs. But don't your conversions make the changeling comfortable in his new environment?" "Sure they do," said the doctor. "We can make you think mud feels better than chinchilla fur and we can have you jumping like a grasshopper despite the double gravity. But we can't make you like the sight of yourself. And we can't guarantee that a Slider won't kill you." "Still," Asa mused aloud, "it would mean a nice bankroll waiting at the end of the year." He leaned forward to fill in the necessary form. S ince it was cheaper to transport a normal human than to rig special environments in a spaceship, every planet operated its own conversion chambers. On the space freighter that carried him from Earth Asa Graybar was confined to a small cabin that was opened only for a guard to bring meals and take out dirty dishes. He was still a prisoner. Sometimes he could hear voices in the passageway outside, and once one of them sounded like a woman's. But since women neither served on spaceships nor worked in the dome settlements on harsher worlds, he decided it was his imagination. He might have been dead cargo for all he learned about space travel. Nevertheless his time was not wasted. He had as a companion, or cellmate, another convict who had elected conversion to muck man. More important, his companion had done time on Jordan's Planet before and had wanted to return. IF "It's the Slider eggs," explained Kershaw, the two-time loser. "The ones you see on Earth knock your eyes out, but they've already begun to die. There's nothing like a fresh one. And I'm not the first to go crazy over them. When I was reconverted and got home I had nine thousand dollars waiting for me. That'll buy a two-year-old egg that flashes maybe four times a day. So I stole a new one and got caught." Asa had held a Slider egg in his hand as he gazed into it. He could understand. The shell was clear as crystal, taut but elastic, while the albumen was just as clear around the sparkling network of organic filaments that served as a yolk. Along these interior threads played tiny flashes of lightning, part of some unexplained process of life. Electrical instruments picked up static discharges from the egg, but the phenomenon remained a mystery. Hardly anyone faced with the beauty of a Slider's egg bothered to question its workings. For a few expectant moments there would be only random, fitful gleamings, and then there would be a wild coruscation of light, dancing from one filament to the next in a frenzy of brillance. It took about four years for a Slider egg to die. Beauty, rarity and fading value made the eggs a luxury item like nothing the world had ever seen. If Asa had found a means of keeping them alive it would have made him wealthy at the expense of the Hazeltyne monopoly. "You know what I think?" Kershaw asked. "I think those flashes are the egg calling its momma. They when you scoop one out of the muck, and right away a Slider always comes swooping out of nowhere at you." "I've been meaning to ask you," Asa said. "How do you handle the Sliders?" Kershaw grinned. "First you try to catch it with a rocket. If you miss you start leaping for home. All this time you're broadcasting for help, you understand. When the Slider catches you, you leap up while it buries its jaws in the mud where you were just standing. You dig your claws in its back and hang on while it rolls around in the mud. Finally, if the 'copter comes -- and if they don't shoot off your head by mistake -- you live to tell the tale." II A sa Graybar kept his normal form on Jordan's Planet just long enough to learn the discomfort of double gravity. He was told he needed another physical examination and was taken right in to a doctor. His heart was pounding to keep his blood circulating on this massive world, but the doctor had apparently learned to make allowances. "Swallow this," said the doctor after making a series of tests. Asa swallowed the capsule. Two minutes later he felt himself beginning to lose consciousness. "This is it!" he thought in panic. He felt someone ease him back down onto a wheeled stretcher. Before consciousness faded completely he realized that no one got a chance to back out of becoming a changeling, that he was on his way to the conversion tank right now. When he finally awoke he felt well rested and very comfortable. But for a long time he was afraid to open his eyes. "Come on, Graybar," said a deep, booming voice. "Let's test our wings." It was not Kershaw's voice, but it had to be Kershaw. Asa opened his eyes. Everyone had seen pictures of muck men. It was different having one stand beside you. Kershaw looked much like an enormous frog except that his head was still mostly human. He was sitting on webbed feet, his lower legs bent double under huge thighs, and his trunk tilted forward so that his arms dangled to the ground. The arms were as thick around as an ordinary man's legs. The hands had become efficient scoops, with broad fingers webbed to the first joint and tipped with spade-like claws. The skin was still pinkish but had become scaly. Not a thread of hair showed anywhere on the body, not even on the head. This, Asa realized, was what he looked like himself. It would have been more bearable if the head had not retained strong traces of humanity The nostrils flared wide and the jaws hardly emerged from the neck, but the ears were human ears and the eyes, under those horny ridges, were human eyes. Asa felt sure that the eyes could still weep. He started to walk forward and tipped over on his side. Kershaw laughed. "Come to daddy, babykins," Kershaw said, holding out his hands. "Only try hopping this time. And take it easy." Asa pushed himself upright with one arm and tried a small hop. Nerve and muscle coordination was perfect. He found himself leaping as high as Kershaw's head. "That's the way,"Kershaw said approvingly. "Now get this on and we'll go outside." Asa snapped on a belt and breech cloth combination that had flaps of fabric dangling from the belt in front and behind. He followed as Kershaw pushed open a sliding door to lead the way out of the room where they had been left to revive from conversion. T hey went into a courtyard partly covered by a roof projecting from the Hazeltyne company's dome settlement. The far half of the courtyard was open to the gray drizzle that fell almost ceaselessly from the sky of Jordan's Planet and turned most of its surface into marsh and mud flats. A high wall enclosed the far portion of the courtyard. Ranged along the wall were thirty stalls for muck men. From fifty yards across the courtyard a muck man bounded over to them in two leaps. Attached to a harness across his shoulders and chest were a gun and a long knife. "Names?" he growled. He was a foot taller than Graybar and big everywhere in proportion. IF "Kershaw. I'm back, Furston." "I'm Graybar." "Kershaw again? Just start in where you left off, sucker. Come on, you." He pointed to Asa and leaped to the open portion of the courtyard. "Do what he says," Kershaw whispered to Graybar. "He's sort of a trusty and warden and parole officer rolled into one." Asa was put through a series of exercises to get him used to his distorted body, to teach him how to leap and how to dig. He was shown how to operate the radio he would carry and how to fire the pencilslim rockets of this gun. Finally he was told to eat a few berries from a native vine. He did so and immediately vomited. Furston laughed. "That's to remind you you're still a man," Furston said, grinning. "Everything that grows on this planet is poison. So if you got any ideas of hiding out till your term is up, forget 'em. Right here is where you eat." Asa turned without a word and hopped feebly away from Furston. He lifted his head to breathe deeply and saw two humans watching him from an observation tower on the roof. He leaped twenty feet into the air for a closer look. Gazing at him with repugnance, after witnessing the end of his session with Furston, were Harriet Hazeltyne and general manager Tom Dorr. The girl's presence merely puzzled Asa, but Dorr's being here worried him. Dorr had tried to get rid of him once and was now in an excellent position to make the riddance permanent. At supper that night, squatting on the ground beside a low table with the dozen other muck men, operating from the dome, Asa asked what the two were doing put here. "The girl will inherit this racket some day, won't she?" asked one of the others. "She wants to see what kind of suckers are making her rich." "Maybe that guy Dorr brought her along to show her what a big wheel he is," said one of the others. "Just hope he doesn't take over the operations." Ill N ext morning Furston passed out guns, knives, radios, and pouches to carry any eggs the muck men found. He gave each man a compass and assigned the sectors to be worked during the day. Finally he called Graybar aside. "In case you don't like it here," Furston said, "you can get a week knocked off your sentence for every egg you bring in. Now get out there and work that muck." Furston sent Graybar and Kershaw out together so that the veteran could show Asa the ropes. Asa had already learned that the wall around the courtyard was to keep Sliders out, not muck men in. He leaped over it and hopped along after Kershaw. Ftet slapping against the mud, they went about five miles from the Hazeltyne station, swimming easily across ponds too broad to jump. The mud, if not precisely as pleasant to the touch as chinchilla fur, was not at all uncomfortable, and the dripping air caressed their skins like a summer breeze back on Earth. Tiny, slippery creatures skidded and splashed out of their way. Finally Kershaw stopped. His experienced eye had seen a trail of swamp weeds crushed low into the mud. "Keep your eyes open," Kershaw said. "There's a Slider been around here lately. If you see something like an express train headed our way, start shooting." At each leap along the trail they peered quickly around. They saw no Sliders, but this meant little, for the beasts lived under the mud as much as on top of it. Kershaw halted again when they came to a roughly circular area some ten yards in diameter where the weeds had been torn out and lay rotting in the muck. "We're in luck," he said as Asa skidded to a stop at his side. "An egg was laid somewhere here within the last week. These places are hard to spot when the new weeds start growing." Kershaw took a long look around. "No trouble in sight. We dig." They started at the center of the cleared area, shoveling up great gobs ofmud with their hands and flinging them out of the clearing. Usually a muck man dug in a spiral out from the center, but Graybar and Kershaw dug in gradually widening semi-circles opposite each other. They had to dig four feet deep, and it was slow going until they had a pit big enough to stand in. Each handful of mud had to be squeezed gently before it was thrown away, to make sure it didn't conceal an egg. As he worked, Asa kept thinking what an inefficient system it was. Everything about the operation was wrong. "Got it!" Kershaw shouted. He leaped out of the pit and started wiping slime off a round object the size of a baseball. Asa jumped out to watch. "A big one," Kershaw said. He held it, still smeared with traces of mud, lovingly to his cheek, and then lifted it to eye level. "Just look at it." T he egg was flashing with a mad radiance, like a thousand diamonds being splintered under a earphones and he thought of what Kershaw had said, that the scintillation of an egg was an effect of its calls to a mother Slider for help. Asa looked around. "Jump!" he shouted. At the edge of the clearing a segmented length of greenish black scales, some two feet thick and six feet high, had reared up out of the weeds. The top segment was almost all mouth, already opened to show row upon row of teeth. Before Asa could draw his gun the Slider lowered its head to the ground, dug two front flippers into the mud and shot forward. Asa leaped with all his strength, sailing far out of the clearing. While he was still in the air he snapped IF the mouthpiece of his radio down from where it was hinged over his head. As he landed he turned instantly, his gun in his hand. "Calling the 'copter!" he spoke rapidly into the mouthpiece. "Kershaw and Graybar, sector eight, five miles out. Hurry!" "Graybar?" asked a voice in his earphone. "What's up?" "We've got an egg but a Slider wants it back." "On the way." Asa hopped back to the clearing. Kershaw must have been bowled over by the Slider's first rush, for he was trying to hop on one leg as if the other had been broken. The egg lay flickering on top of the mud where Kershaw had dropped it. The Slider, eight flippers on each side working madly, was twisting its thirty feet of wormlike body around for another charge. Aiming hastily, Asa fired a rocket at the monster's middle segment. The rocket smashed through hard scales and exploded in a fountain of gray flesh. The Slider writhed, coating its wound in mud, and twisted toward Asa. He leaped to one side, firing from the air and missing, and saw the Slider turn toward the patch of weeds where he would land. His legs were tensed to leap again the moment he hit the mud, but he saw the Slider would be on top of him before he could escape. As he landed he thrust his gun forward almost into the mouth of the creature and fired again. Even as he was knocked aside into the muck, Asa's body was showered with shreds of alien flesh scattered by the rocket's explosion. Desperately pushing himself to his feet, he saw the long headless body shiver and lie still. A sa took a deep breath and looked around. "Kershaw!" he called. "Where are you?" "Over here." Kershdw stood briefly above the weeds and fell back again. Asa leaped over to him. "Thanks," Kershaw said. "Muck men stick together. You'll make a good one. I wouldn't have had a chance. My leg's busted." "The helicopter ought to be here pretty soon," Asa said. He locked over at the dead Slider and shook his head. "Tell me, what are the odds on getting killed doing this?" "Last time I was here there was about one mucker killed for every six eggs brought out. Of course you're not supposed to stand there admiring the eggs like I did while a Slider comes up on you." Asa hopped over to the egg, which was still full of a dancing radiance where it rested on the mud. He scooped a hole in the muck and buried the egg. "Just in case there are any more Sliders around," he explained. "Makes no difference," said Kershaw, pointing upward. "Here comes the 'copter, late as usual." The big machine circled them, hovered to inspect the dead Slider, and settled down on broad skids. Through the transparent nose Asa could see Tom Dorr and Harriet Hazeltyne. The company manager swung the door open and leaned out. "I see you took care of the Slider," he said. "Hand over the egg." "Kershaw has a broken leg," Asa said. "I'll help him in and then I'll get the egg." While Kershaw grabbed the door frame to help pull himself into the helicopter, Asa got under his companion's belly and lifted him by the waist. He hadn't realized before just how strong his new body was. Kershaw, as a muck man, would have weighed close to three hundred pounds on Earth, close to six hundred here. Dorr made no move to help, but the girl reached under Kershaw's shoulder and strained to get him in. Once he was inside, Asa saw, the cabin was crowded. "Are you going to have room for me too?" he asked. "Not this trip," Dorr answered. "Now give me the egg." Asa didn't hesitate. "The egg stays with me," he said softly. "You do what I tell you, mucker," said Dorr. "Nope. I want to make sure you come back." Asa turned his head to Harriet. "You see. Miss Hazeltyne, I don't trust your friend. You might ask him to tell you about it." Dorr stared at him with narrowed eyes. Suddenly he smiled in a way that worried Asa. "Whatever you say, Graybar," Doer said. He turned to the controls. In another minute the helicopter was in the sky. A round trip for the helicopter should have taken no more than twenty minutes, allowing time for Kershaw to be taken out at the settlement. After an hour passed Asa began to worry. He was sure Dorr would return for the egg. Finally he realized that Dorr could locate the egg approximately by the body of the dead Slider. Dorr could return for the egg any time with some other muck man to dig for it. Asa pulled down the mouthpiece of his radio. "This is Graybar, calling the helicopter," he said. "When are you coming?" There was no answer except the hum of carrier wave. If he tried to carry the egg back, Asa knew. Sliders would attack him all along the way. A man had no chance of getting five miles with an egg by himself. He could leave the egg here, of course. Even so he would be lucky if he got back, following a hazy compass course from which he and Kershaw had certainly deviated on their outward trip. There were no landmarks in this wilderness of bog to help him find his way. The workers were supposed to home in on radio signals, if they lost their bearings, but Dorr would deny him that help. What was the night like on Jordan's Planet? Maybe Sliders slept at night. If he could stay awake, and if he didn't faint from hunger in this strange new body, and if the Sliders left him alone... A whirring noise made Asa jump in alarm. Then he smiled in relief, for it was the helicopter, the blessed helicopter, coming in over the swamp. IF But what if it was Dorr, coming back alone to dispose of him without any witnesses? Asa leaped for the carcass of the dead Slider and took shelter behind it. No machine-gun blast of rockets came from the helicopter. The big machine swooped low dizzily, tilted back in an inexpert attempt to hover, thumped down upon the mud and slid forward. As Asa jumped aside, the landing skids caught against the Slider's body and the helicopter flipped forward on its nose, one of the rotor blades plunging deep into the mud. Asa leaped forward in consternation. Not only was his chance of safe passage back to the settlement wrecked, but now he would have the extra burden of taking care of the pilot. When he reached the nose of the helicopter he saw that the pilot, untangling herself from the controls to get up, was Harriet Hazeltyne. IV # I A re you hurt?" Asa asked her. She reached for his shoulder to steady herself as she climbed out of the machine. 'T guess not," she said. "But taking a fall in this gravity is no fun. From the way my face feels I ought to be getting a black eye pretty soon." "What happened?" "I made a fool of myself." She made a face back in the direction of the settlement. "Dorr wasn't going to come after you. He said anyone who talked back to him should try arguing with the Sliders." She looked up at the machine-gun on the helicopter. "They feed at night, you know. And they eat their own kind," she said. "The Slider you killed would draw them like ants to jam." Asa glanced around quickly to make sure no Sliders had already come. He eyed the helicopter with distaste at the thought of what a flimsy fort it would make. "Anyway," Harriet said, "I told him he couldn't just leave you here and we started arguing. I lost my temper. He thought he had brought me to Jordan's Planet on a fancy tour. I told him the real reason I was here was to check up for my father on the way he was running things and there seemed to be a lot wrong. So he told me very politely I could run things to suit myself and he walked off." She shrugged, as if to indicate that she had made a mess of things. "And you took the helicopter by yourself," Asa said, as if he could hardly believe it yet. "Oh, back on Earth I can make a helicopter do stunts. But I wasn't used to this gravity. I don't suppose you couldmake this machine stand up straight?" Asa tugged at the body of the Slider until he got it off the skids of the plane. He pulled with all his strength at the rotor blade sunk in the mud, but the weight of the helicopter was upon it and the mud held it with a suction of its own. After a few minutes he had to give up. "We fight off the Sliders, then," she said, as matter of factly as if that problem was settled. "If it's any comfort, I know how to handle the machine-gun." "Nope. In this drizzle, at night, the Sliders would be on us before we could see them. We've got to try to get back." He stood in thought while she stared at him patiently. "What happened to the other muck men who went out today?" he asked. "They were called in when the 'copter came out the first time. Some of them may not have got back yet." A sa started talking into his radio. "Calling all muck men. This is Asa Graybar. All muck men, listen. This is Graybar. I am five miles out with Miss Hazeltyne, who came to rescue me after I saved Kershaw from a Slider. The helicopter is smashed. We're slogging in." He looked at her for a nod of confirmation and repeated the message. "Graybar?" came a voice in his earphones. "What do you want?" Asa grinned at Harriet as he continued. "Go on back to the settlement. Tell the others. Then organize a party to come help us. Bearing # degrees." "Right," said the unidentified voice. "I got it too," said another voice in the headset. "Muck men stick together." Good, Asa thought. At least two IF muckers were still out. They would tell the others. "Cancel all that," said a third voice. "This is Dorr speaking. Nobody goes out until I give the word." Asa didn't fancy waiting. "By authority of Miss Hazeltyne," he said rapidly, "Dorr is no longer manager. I am acting manager." He saw Harriet's eyebrows go up, for she couldn't hear the other end of what was going on. "Disregard Dorr," he continued. "If you can help us get back. Miss Hazeltyne will make changes to benefit all of us." Before he could say any more his ear was stricken with the noise of loud static. Dorr was making sure no more radio messages got through. Asa quickly told Harriet what had happened. The girl smiled with one side of her mouth. "Fine," she said, "but how am I supposed to cross the muck?" "On my back," Asa turned and entered the helicopter cabin. All the time he had been talking he had been worrying about the fact that he had only three rockets left for his gun. Quickly he checked the ammunition for the machinegun, found it was the same caliber, and felt that at last one break had gone his way. He took the plastic ammunition belts outside. "Load your pockets with these," he told the girl, pulling the rockets from their loops. Then, tying the plastic belts together, he fashioned a sling she could sit in with her legs at his sides. Finally he handed her his gun. "If you see a Slider," he said, "shoot for the head. Now climb on and hold tight to my gun harness and we'll try our luck." TThen she was astride his back Asa checked his compass and started jumping. At once he knew that the going would be much harder than he had imagined. Alone he could leap twenty-five yards, but her weight cut him down to about five yards. He kept going, realizing that the task was almost beyond his strength and not daring to tell her that even if his strength held out they might not even find the settlement in this drizzle. Hopping, sometimes staggering, skirting the wider pools in the swamp, Aa managed to go about a mile before he had to stop and rest. Harriet climbed out of the sling and settled down on a patch of weeds, a wet and slippery mat upon the mud. "We're going to make it," she said cheerfully. "I hope so," he said. "Not just for ourselves. A lot of changes should eggs on this planet. You're getting only a couple hundred a year." He was panting between sentences and stopped talking until he could catch his breath. "For one thing," he continued, "rockets are the wrong weapon against the Sliders. Flame throwers would be better. Of course they're a lot heavier than guns. But everything about the way you go after eggs is wrong. It's criminal to send one man out alone. It's utterly irresponsible to have only one helicopter. You're putting a price on eggs in terms of human lives. Muck men are human, you know, no matter what we look like." "You are very human," she said softly, "and very brave." He returned her smile, adding, "And we'll both be very dead unless we get going." They had traveled considerably less than a mile when he had to stop again. "How would you run things here? Harriet asked. "Start with new premises. There's no need to make monsters out of the muck men. Double their strength, and perhaps give them web feet, but why legs like a frog? If I could walk normally I could be pulling you on a sled. And why shovel hands instead of proper tools? Of course you would still have to give them a skin for this weather. Harriet's clothing was sodden and streaked with mud, and her hair was hanging down her head in wet, dark tangles that looked like so much boiled spinach. The bump when the helicopter fell had raised a blue-black swelling around her left eye. Yet, it occurred to Asa, she hadn't voiced the slightest complaint. She was listening intently to his advice. "I would send parties of three men out in a helicopter," he continued. "One would guard the ship while the other two hunted eggs. As soon as they found an egg they'd hop into the ship and be safe." T hey started off again. At the first leap Asa saw a Slider a hundred yards away. As soon as his feet hit the ground he whispered" to Harriet. She climbed out of the sling and held her gun ready while he drew his knife to wait. Long minutes passed before he decided they had not been seen and it was safe to continue. Next time they stopped the girl turned to Asa with a frown and asked, "Just how does Dorr think he can get away with this?" "Simple." Asa shrugged. "He'll say the Sliders got us despite all he could do. No muck man who could tell a different story will live long enough to get back to Earth." The sound of a rocket explosion came from somewhere off to their right. It was the loveliest sound Asa had ever heard. "The rescue party!" he shouted. "Let's go!" Knowing that rockets meant Sliders, but knowing also that no Slider was a match for a team of armed men, Asa leaped forward with renewed vigor. Once he misjudged his strength and landed in a puddle, splashing both of them with slimy water, but the girl on his back only laughed. They heard the sound of another rocket, and Harriet fired three shots of her own to attract attention. In a few more minutes they were happily welcoming six muck men. "I heard your message," said one of them, "and back at the settlement Kershaw told us what had happened. Furston tried to stop us and wound up with a knife in his belly... A couple of the others were afraid to come, and two were shot from the tower by IF Dorr, but the rest are with you. "Tom Dorr will be tried for murder," Harriet prcMnised grimly. With different men taking turns carrying Harriet for short distances they began to make progress rapidly. The Slider the men had been firing at was dead and no more were sighted before they came to the settlement. Dorr was waiting for them. He fired from the tower, his machinegun burst of rockets cutting through one man in mid-leap. Asa's party hugged the mud and fired back. Plastic showered from the tower window, and dust spurted from the concrete around it. "Keep me covered," Asa shouted. He 'took the gun from Harriet and leaped madly forward until he was under the shelter of the side of the dome. He waited for one more salvo from his party and jumped to the tower itself. Dorr had vanished, driven out of the tower by the rockets. Asa waved to the others to come forward and hopped into the main quarters of the dome. He had never been in this part of the settlement. Dorr could be lying in ambush for him. Asa moved cautiously, but he was confident that his own adjustment to the gravity of the planet would give him the advantage in any sudden meeting. H e looked around the comer and down some stairs just in time to see the discredited manager, holding a sack in one hands, struggle to open a door. Asa fired and missed. The next moment Dorr was outside. Asa leaped to the floor below.  One of the normal humans who lived in the settlement came out of another room, saw Asa and dodged back out of sight. Outside, Asa could see Dorr laboring to run along the paved road that led to the spaceship a quarter of a mile away. The fugitive turned once and fired wildly as Asa leaped after him. The mist was turning into heavy rain, and it was getting harder to see. Another rocket exploded somewhere out in front of Asa. The sound was followed by a scream. One more leap and Asa began firing himself. A Slider was gently taking into its mouth three eggs spilled from the sack lying beside what was left of Tom Dorr. One of Asa's shots destroyed the Slider, destroying the eggs, too as the monster's head exploded. Asa didn't think the eggs mattered much right now. He shuffled slowly back to the settlement, deciding to accept when Harriet offered him the managership. Some day, if he had his way. Slider eggs would be as common on Coming Next Month IF  Short Story The man who bears the Earthman's burden must give justice to the Lesser Tribes without the Law -- who may give it back! T he wakey-wakey played Earth Is Where My Heart Is and Mark Hassall sat up with a pounding heart. Every simulated morning for the last simulated three weeks he had woken to the gentle sound of Earth Is Where My Heart Is. But whatever you set the wakey-wakey to play, he reflected sadly, after a time it gave you a cold sweat to hear U For any signal which brings you to life in the morning after the mental death of sleep becomes associated with that shock to the system. The fear of death is nothing, compared to the fear of life. He flicked on the sound transmission of his telephone and left the visual pickup off. "Yup," he groaned into it. The telephone built up the unblushing image of Marylou, Transit Station J's nubile communications expert. "Marco," she cooed. "You're sitting up in bed." "You're damn right I am," he said. "But not any more!" And he curled himself modestly up in his electric blanket. "Anyway how in hell would you know? I've got the visual off." "I've eyes in the back of my head." "You just might have at that," he IF answered. For a communications expert on a Transit Station is considerably more than a mere switchboard girl. "Why don't you get dressed?" said Marylou. T'll really try and remember to do that before I go on duty," said Mark rolling towards the shower. "But I don't promise I'll get the time." "You just find the time," she said. When she heard the shower start she leaned forward across the control panel and turned the knob that accentuated the yellow register. She was a connoisseur about the performance of her telephone and loved it best of all her instruments. "I saw that," said Mark, just to keep her on her toes. "I was only turning up the yellow," said Marylou. "It was a little low. That's all." "You're a liar. You wanted to show off your pretty yellow hair." Maryiou pouted a little. "Just because you're being so tiresome this morning I'll tell you now why I called you." "Oh, God, no! You couldn't do that," he said from under the shower. "Not before breakfast." "You've got no time for breakfast. It's sim-# now. At sim-# you've got a case." "Oh, boy. Oh, boy," he moaned. "In the good old days bringers of bad news got killed. I'm surprised you dare. Why in space does this trial have to happen in the middle of the sim-night?" "Colonel's orders, Marco. He says a summary trial will impress the natives." T he colonel of Transit Station J was Colonel Prince Banerji of Haipur, and his ideas of discipline were inherited from an ancestor who once personally beheaded # English people, including # women and # children, back in his home state of Haipur on his home planet Earth, because he thought the English residents were becoming insubordinate. When the British soldiers came to take vengeance he told them that he had been no more severe with their late compatriots than he would be with his own people, and this was doubtless true. His descendant carried on the tradition by such endearing maneuvers as holding the monthly Emergency Evacuation Drill at sim#, the morning hour that is consecrated throughout the civilized universe to a pull at the Venusian drug-weed and a cup of coffee. "Constant and Effortful Vigilance," was his motto for his Transit Station. It was rumored that he never slept. Nobody had ever called him on the telephone without finding him immaculately uniformed and sitting at his desk. It was clear to Mark that he had been picked for the Station's most unpleasant job this sim-morning, probably for some good reason like Banerji had seen him smile or heard him whistle the sim-day before. The Station's most unpleasant job, of course, was sitting in on trials. Every Earthman on the Station, from the colonel to Roderick MacMack, the junior engineer, and Mark Hassall, the junior transport controller, held a commissioned rank in the Space S# Police, and under the terms of the Re-Foundation of Government in #, an officer in the Space Police had to be ready and trained to act the role of congressman, detective, judge, lawyer or jailer on demand. This happy sim-morning Mark Hassall had been chosen for judge. Standing Orders said that every dispute on the Station must be attended by an Earth officer. This Order meant, for instance, that Mark had once been forced to sit for # simhours in total silence alone in the courtroom with two tankfuls of Aldeberan-# creatures while they thrashed out what they alleged was a theological dispute. The Aids are the interpreters of the universe, and they had said that the subject matter of therr dispute was ineffable. "And if ineffable," they added, "then untranslatable." Mark hadn't even dared peruse a novel, for though no one but Aids could tell when Aids were having a break, the colonel, if he cared to look in, would know if Mark was. "This isn't my lucky sim-day," said Mark to Marylou while he brushed his teeth. "It could be much worse, friend," said the delectable communicator. "It's only an intra-species affair." In those days the difference between intra-Species law and interspecies law really meant something. Intra-Secies litigation was purgatorial, but inter-species litigation was hellish. In those days all cases were technically settled by Earth law, and in every judgment the judge had to produce a complicated formula reconciling his Earth-derived settlement with the law and practice of the relevant alien race. If two alien races were involved in a dispute, then the unhappy magistrate had to wrestle with a three-way compromise. With some sense of relief Mark turned on the visuals and gave Marylou a sight of his shining morning face. "What's the rap?" he asked, airing a bit of jargon he had picked up watching old television films in the Station library. (The Station had genuine antiques like the "Perry Mason" series he was quoting from.) "Wait for it," said Marylou roguishly, and brightened the contrast control to show off her roguish dimples. "Wife beating." "Oh, for God's sake! Only a tenth of them have arms to beat with! And only a tenth of them have wives." "Well, one in a hundred's a wifebeater." "I've heard it all. What could be next?" "It Could Be You, Mark darling," said Marylou. "Kindly remember your place," he said with mock roughness, and leaned forward as unobtrusively as he could in order to turn down the red register. "The Court at sim# then." "Good luck, Marco," said the Station's sole communications expert and sole Earth woman, and switched off. "Thank you, honeychile," said Mark meditatively into the gray screen. "Thank you." IF fThen he got to the courtroom and took his place on the Tribunal the trial was already set up. Beside him on the table was his water carafe, and about a quart of the Station's complement of Aldeberan-# people in their aquarium-like traveling quarters, with earphone pickups already connected, Mark put on the earphones. "Good morning, sir," said an electronically produced voice. "This is the Court Interpreter." "Good morning. Aids," he said. "Miss Marylou said to tell you that your container of body-fluid includes a toxic additive." Mark looked inside the vacuum flask which held water for the Judge and found it full of steaming black coffee. "Thank you, Aids. Convey my thanks to Miss Marylou. Sorry to see so many of you here this morning." The Aids made no answer. About two-thirds of the Station's complement of Aids had turned up that simmorning. They always sent to court just as many individuals as could cope with the complexity of the case as they saw it. They seldom misjudged. To see so many of them at once was a bad omen. He looked around the Court. Below him, in what they called the dock, were two bedraggled Fomalhaut-#s, one male, one female. He had no idea what the female Fomalhaut was doing there. The only wheeled race known at the time, they were circling round each other in the gyration labeled by the Ethological Handbook for their race "Repose: without joy", and which MacMack had rechristened "constant and effortful vigilance" after the tyrannous Banerji's watchword. Beyond them, in the position technically known as "Counsel for the Defense" was the Station's senior lieutenant, Gil Mulrooney, a thickset, grizzled veteran of the Last Trans-Stellar War. Beside him sat his opposite number, counsel for the prosecution, in the person of the Station's dapper Administrative Adjutant, Jules Monterey. The titles they bore for the occasion dated from a time when the government was divided into many separate departments -- like judiciary, administration, police, army or the Bar. But by the end of the #st century, government was government and no longer a species of public debate or carnival tug-of-war, and any government officer could take any role. The two counsels' jobs were roughly to list the points on two opposing sides, and Mark's was to pronounce judgment. But all government is of course implicit in each individual. Next time they would probably trade jobs. Beyond the court itself ranged the tiered compartments reserved for spectators. Each compartment was adapted to the physique of one of the # trans-stellar races living on the Station, with the front row reserved for Earthmen and Martians, whose solar system the Station happened to be in. Most of the compartments had someone inside. It looked to Mark as if an average number of every race had come to see the fun. You had to say "average" because the actual number of individuals of any race which constituted a quorum varied so much. For instance there was a quart of Aids on his desk: that would be around # individuals. There were around # Loon-birds sparsely roosting in their three-dimensional knitting safely (of course) behind glass. There were three Earthmen in the court, all in official capacities. There was one Leprechaun with his eye extruded. And, luckily, there was no PhoenixStation. There is only one Phoenixcloud known, but that one can be dangerous enough to a lonely Transit Station. It is the job of a Station to offer shelter and to offer sustenance -- but not if the first bite is the Station itself. "Thanks be for small mercies, anyway,' thought Mark. Aloud he said, "We'll begin." O n the recording strip sunk into the desk at the right of his chair he saw the words "The Court sits" appear. This was also the work of the Aids, who activated the official court record. The difference between languages and the difference between two styles in one language were both the same difference to them. So far as they knew it was all translation. So whatever one said in court ki English was minced up by their infallible brain-circuitry and emerged on the record in the sort of legal jargon with which lawyers have baffled laymen since the invention of justice. All round the court bodies relaxed in the way appropriate to their physique. "What gives in this case?" said Mark. "Set forth the Plaint," said the record. Gil Mulrooney got up slowly. "That's not hard," he said. "I was on Station watch this sim-morning. At sim-# I got a call from the automatic monitor on #th level, at the intersection of the Fomalhaut avenue and #th Freeway, a call of 'believed disturbance'. I immediately went down by chute in person." "Leaving the watch monitor active in the guardroom," Mark put in. "Of course," said Gil. "Activating the watch monitor." This would look right in the record. It wasn't that Mark doubted that Gil had taken this simple precaution, just that he might have forgotten to say so. It was Mark's job to keep the record straight and, more than that, to keep the colonel sweet. "Go on," said Mark. "The corridor monitor was quite correct. There was considerable disturbance coming from cell # on the Fomalhaut avenue, the cell assigned to Mr. and Mrs. Daap-daap. I could hear great clouts against the partition wall and a squealing that could be heard four blocks away. I thought at least a band of loon-birds had got loose in there." Mark shuddered at the picture. "Sounds bad. What did you do then?" "I activated the calling circuits and I was let in." "Immediately? You made me IF think all Hell was let loose in there." 'Well, it calmed down the moment I keyed the calling circuit. Almost as if they'd been waiting for me. "That doesn't sound very likely," said Mark, "if the noise was as bad as you say." "The noise was very bad," said Mulrooney grimacing "One wouldn't be mistaken about a noise like that." "Well, it was a sleep-period," said Monterey from the other counsel's box. "I don't see the relevance," said Mulrooney slowly. "The Fomalhauts don't sleep. You know that." "I do," said Monterey, conscientiously needling his opposite number as a good Counsel should. "But Earthmen do sleep. I call the judge's attention to that." "You're claiming I dreamt it then," shouted Mulrooney furiously. "You were probably as bleary as a gigolo on Sunday morning," answered Monterey. T he record paused for a few seconds, then produced this impartial translation. "I submit that Lieutenant Mulrooney was suffering from disorientation of the realitysense brought on by cultural shock, the cultural shock being due in this case to his foregoing a fundamental Earth custom, namely that of undergoing a period of unconsciousness between sim-#I and sim-#." "Nonsense," said Mark hurriedly. "Gil's a policeman, for God's sake." The Aids printed: "Objection formally noted. The judgment of this court in this is that, firstly, the Earth race is exceptionally immune to cultural shock, and, secondly, vigilance during the sleep-period is an old and honored custom of the Earth police subculture and would thus be entirely natural to Lieutenant Mulrooney." It looked damn good. "This is all off the point," said Mark. "Whatever interpretation we may put upon it, the court accepts that the Fomalhauts in question stopped quarreling and let you in. Then what?" "On gaining entrance I found the defendant, Fomalhaut-male Daapdaap, holding in one tentacle a carved Fomalhaut food-pipe some # cms long (Exhibit A), and the codefendant Fomalhaut-female Mrs. Daap-daap -- " "Oh, for God's sake!" said Mark, interrupting. "(Strike that from the Record.) I thought this was a wifebeating case. Tell me whose wife was beaten, and if Mrs. Daap-daap was the victim, why does she appear as co-defendant? Or isn't that Fomalhaut-female down there Mrs. Daapdaap?" "Well, Mrs. Daap-daap did get beaten," said Gil. "And she appears as co-defendant at her own request. And that is her in the dock. To tell the truth, this case is a daddy-o." "Certain features of this case render it unusually complex," typed the Record. "Yes, but is anybody going to explain it to me?" said Mark. "Honestly, I'd rather you thrash it out with the defendants themselves. This court's already too full of mouthpieces." And Mulrooney favored the tank of Aids with a mournful Bronx cheer, which they forebore, as near as Mark could see, to translate. "I talked with both Daap-daaps, of course, and the facts are clear enough, but I haven't the faintest idea what their plea is." "I'll confirm that. Judge," said Monterey. "Will you take over?" "Right," said Mark. "Don't go to sleep, though." Mulrooney glared at him, but the tactful Aids cut out the sleep metaphor and confined their Record to, "Maintain, however, general surveillance, Counsels." Mark signed to the two Fomalhauts to hook themselves to the direct Interpreter's Link. He addressed Mrs. Daap-daap. "I see that your front wheel is gravely contused, to the extent that you are resting it on a surgical trolley. Is that the result of a fight this sim-morning?" "Yes, sir," came the reply. "Witness?" said Mark. "Deposition of doctor," said the Aids, acting as his remembrancer. "Exhibit B." They were right as usual. Mark found the document in one of the slits under the Record. Its signer was an Asclepiad, amid-qravity race with a speciality in biophysics, who had been the Galaxy's doctors long before Man dame on the scene. It certified that when he attended Mrs. Daap-daap at # that morning she had been suffering from widespread surface contusions, and from a fractured bearing-joint in her front ankle -- all caused within # simhours of the treatment time. Mark addressed Mr. Daap-daap. "Did you do this to your wife?" he asked. "I did," he answered. He evidently did not want to hide it, for the Aids on the Record had added "(Relaxedly; without hesitation)". "Well, that's frank. And why did you hit her?" "Because I did wrong." "And why should you hit her when you do wrong?" "Because it is the duty of wives to suffer punishment for wiat their husbands do wrong." "I see. But why is she too in the dock?" "Because it is the duty of wives to suffer punishment for what their husbands do wrong." To the Aids, Mark said, "Come on. You're a question behind. I'm asking now why Mrs. Daap-daap is in the dock." "Unquote," said the Aids to show they were talking in their, or its, proper person. "The defendant's answer was as it appears in the Record." "But that can't be the answer to both questions!" Mark protested. "Unquote is that a statement or a question? To the defendants or to the interpreter?" "Well, don't let's waste breath," said Mark, knowing that the Aids enjoyed a good idiom. "If you know the answer, you tell." "Unquote I know why the defendant's wife is in the dock. You will remember that the reason is in the Fomalhaut Ethology Handbook paragraph #." (The Aids, being the only purely intellectual life form in the universe, could never conceive IF the difference between a memory and a reference book. They meant Mark could look the information up in the Fomalhaut Ethology. The advantage of their ignorance was that the colonel would never know that Mark hadn't remembered the information for himself, because the paragraph number would merely appear in the Aids' record as a reference.) M ark flipped over the pages of the Ethology. Para # was in Part II ("Social Behavior"), Chapter # ("Justice"), item #a ("Punishment"). It said: "Punishment for wrong-doing is customarily inflicted on the females -- wife, or, if unavailable, mother, or, if unavailable, female guardian. The accepted forms of punishment are physical chastisement or deprival of nutriment (see paras #-#) -- both these can be inflicted by Earth officials -- and deprival of Joy see (para #) -- which cannot." "Joy" was obviously pretty basic, judging by its, paragraph number, but this wasn't the time for looking it up. "I've got that sewn up, Aids," said Mark, laying the idioms on thick to gain time. "I'm right in there with you regarding why Daap-daap's little girl is in the dock. Now you give with the info why he was hitting her this sim-morning." "Roger," said the Aids, never at a loss how to beat interlocutors at their own game. "Can do, skipper. He was beating her then 'cos he just dun wrong. You will remember the same para." "I see that," said Mark. "That explains why he was beating her, and the note on methods of punishment explains why he was beating her,-but I still don't know why he was beating her." There was a pause, and then the Aids produced another line on the Record. It said: "Defendant: Because I had done wrong according to Earth code. My wife must suffer punishment for that." "I see," said Mark. Daap-daap was of course technically quite right. Transit Station J had its legal existence under an archaic type of agreement known as a "lease". This mean basically that under a reciprocal benefit agreement drawn up according to the law of Jupiter (in whose orbit the Station hung) the Earth Government controlled the area covered by the Station's orbit. The agreement specifically added that unless # sim-months (a Jupiter time-span) notice were given to the contrary. Earth law should be observed by all organic matter aboard. So much was true enough. But there were some Earth laws which some organic matter simply had to break, particularly (he glanced wryly at the # or so Loon-birds -- by God, there were now about a thousand of them -- swarming in the Spectators' area) the organic matter aboard his Station. And in their setup an individual could make trouble quicker by citing the letter of the law than any other way short of opening both doors of the airlock simultaneously. With something like anxiety in the corner of his mind, he said, "And what Earth law did you break?" "A law concerning Grievous Bodily Harm and Assault. I was beating my wife." "You acted quite rightly. That sort of thing could land you up in the courts," said Mark judiciously. "It has landed me up in court," said Daap-daap -- "(sternly)", according to the Record. "And my wife has already paid the penalty." F or a couple of heartbeats Mark spun dizzily in the no-space of the Fomalhauts' moral metaphysics. Then he was back in command. "This is the situation, then," he said ("sternly") No organic matter, wheeled or otherwise, in the Station would fool him. "You admit to beating your wife, and recognize that this is illegal under Earth law. Your defense against the charge of Assault is Justification within Racial Mores, and within your code of mores the justification is that your act of Assault was a legitimate punishment for a wrong which you had committed, or, at least, for an act which was illegal according to the laws of your domicile place; that wrong being that same act of Assault. The situation so far is simple." (He would show them who was master.) "However, your explanation is unsatisfactory in this particular, that under Earth law punishment may not be inflicted before the crime is committed. Therefore the same act cannot be both crime and punishment." "We deny that punishment was inflicted before the crime was committed. Nor was it inflicted afterwards. It was simultaneous." "Oh. I see." "Is our reasoning satisfactory? Did we do right in doing what we did? Will you acquit us?" "The court will adjourn for sim#-minutes to consider judgment." The human beings in .the Court stood up. The Fomalhauts formed themselves into the Obeisance Pattern and the Loon-birds -- there were now thousands of them in their sealed cubicle -- rose in . a humming cloud. Mark stepped swiftly round the back of his Tribunal and closed behind him the door of the small robing-room. He found his hands shaking as he sat at the bare desk in the small robing-room, and hje suddenly realized that the trial had started a whole row of alarm bells shrieking in his mind. Analyzing what those alarm bells were, he came first and inevitably to the thought of the colonel. Everyone in the Station knew from experience what the colonel's repayment for a clumsy judgment could be -- something nasty, like a tour of the exit vents of the air system, or a patrol in the high-grav sector. But the colonel, though savage, was fair. Mark was pretty sure he had done as well so far as could be expected. Anyway, there wasn't a moment of the sim-day when he wasn't scared of Banerji. The next thought he came to was "put-up job". The story of how they IF had stopped fighting the moment Mulrooney called them was suspicious enough. And then there was no denying that they had him pretty well tied up. He could acquit them by accepting a plea of justification. But if Daap-daap was to be excused for hitting his wife, then he had done no wrong -- and justification no longer applied. For how could he justifiably be hitting his wife if he had nothing for which to punish her? You get in the same mess, only the other way round, Mark thought, if you find them guilty. He was familiar with such paradoxes on paper, but he was very unhappy indeed to meet one in the flesh. His last thought, the worst of all, was, "This isn't just a Fomalhaut family quarrel. The whole Station's in on this." The spectators' benches had been trial. Reviewing in his mind's eye the patchwork of color which had been his view from the Tribunal, he came to the conclusion that every race in the mid-grav sector had sent at least one representative. For that matter, all the Loon-birds in the Station were in there -- the Loonbirds, the emo,tional carrion-eaters of the universe who congregated wherever there was trouble, the Loon-birds whom the Earth government employed as military personnel only. It was a bad omen when Loon-birds gathered. But one corner of his mental view-screen was blank. Which race might have been there but wasn't? Of course. He knew which: the Murrays. A few of them often came to court, particularly to hear a family quarrel. None had come today. If he could locate the blind spot in the Murrays' psychology which had kept them away today, he would have an insight into the real nature of today's case, and into what it meant to the inhabitants of the Station. For they had mostly known each other long before they had known Man, and they hadn't gotten the habit of confiding in Man. H e called up the Aids (who have no hates or loves, no prejudices or dislikes -- just intellect). "What's with the Murrays?" "You will remember the Murray Ethology para #. They are the only known life-form parasitic on an object smaller than themselves." "No. Try again." "You will remember page xiv of the Introduction. They were discovered by Arthur Murray, later one of the victims of the sensational Heatdeath Murders." "No, no. Something to do with this case." "How will you not remember paras #-#? Surely those pages of your memory are not missing? They deal with the control of Murray behavior. Murrays cannot be taught to do anything except those actions specified in the Ethology, nor can they be prevented in any way from doing those actions if the appropriate signal has been given. Thus their behavior fails completely to be plastic, and thus they have not the conception of wrong, guilt, punishment or law." All trials deal implicitly with wrong, guilt, punishment and law, and the fact that the Murrays had stayed away showed that these were not just implicit in this case but explicit. No point of conduct was on trial; the system itself was on trial. This was a testcase to decide if Earth law should continue to hold on the Station. It was as if one were to feed a certain problem into a computer, not to get an answer but to test the computer. Only this problem, he was pretty sure, included a proposition which damaged the computer itself. In the ordinary course of things, if a trial starts going sour you consult the law further until gradually the tangle comes clear. But in this case the very statement of the charge and the defense tampered with the structure of the law itself. Any further recourse to the same machine could only sent it into a positive feedback, which at each cycle would take it further into absurdity. There was, of course, Mark reflected, one further technique he could use if native wit could not sort out the Fomalhauts' disingenous pleas. He could go above the law, to the mechanism designed for dealing with treason, to that body of brutal fact known as "martial law." But was he a' Banerji, who would force a decision by merciless insistence instead of trying reasonable discussion? All the same he called the Aids, and together they refreshed his memory on the use of extralegal coercion in settling disputes. And he began to run over in his mind, not the Perry Mason series but the equally old and famous Mickey Spillane adventures. When the hour was up Mark took his place with as much calmness as he could. "Trial resumes," he said. The audience settled back into their seats, perches, hovering-heights or floating-depths. "Have the principals anything further to say before judgment be delivered?" "We wish the charge set aside," said the Fomalhauts. "We have been mistaken on a point of law and a point of ethics." Mark heaved a secret sigh. "We are glad that you should agree," he answered in a satisfactorily judicious tone. "What is the cause of your change of mind?" "We have a custonl, one custom only, that corresponds to your 'law. It is this: 'To each and from each according as he is. This is the whole of our law. For instance, it is right for a Fomalhaut being to obey Fomalhaut custom; for an Earth being to obey Earth custom. Thus for us there exist many versions of 'right. There is Earth 'right', there is Fomalhaut 'right', there is Aldeberan 'right' and so on." Mark nodded happily. "Now, it is Fomalhaut-right for a Fomalhaut to obey Fomalhaut custom. It is Fomalhaut-right for an Earth man to obey Earth custom. But here we are troubled. For it is no part ot Fomalhaut-right to determine the right of Earth according to Fomalhaut thinking. Thus in no way may we who are Fomalhauts either approve or disapprove the workings of an Earth court. All talk If of justice here is meaningless. We will withdraw now." Then the truth was on the table. Not only was the problem one to break the machine, but it said right there in the packet, "This problem breaks the machine." He felt a prickle of apprehension run down his spine, for he observed the Fomalhauts in the dock and in the spectators' benches melting and weaving into the hollow square of Active Hostility. CiVait a minute before you go," he said, smiling. Heck, he thought, this is insane. Surely if he could only think on his feet long enough he could solve this whole absurd problem. If this sordid family bickering was the revolt flag of half a universe, then this was a universe populated solely by dumb blonde mothers-in-law and vicars in the wood. He started talking. "Can we be sure there is a case to answer here? I mean, beating one's wife is one of the few honest and innocent pleasures in this over-civilized universe, and I imagine beating one's husband is too. And if this pastime may not be innocently indulged in, what do we all go through marriage for?" Surprisingly, the Aids said in his ear, "Is that a joke?" "I suppose it is." "A moment, please. Jokes take a little longer." Mark paused. He had taught the Station Aids to have a sense of humor because he liked to have someone around to construct new stories for him to tell -- bizarre as the Aids' jokes usually were. And he had been most gratified to discover from them -- probably the first Earth man to do so- that most of the trans-stellars had an analogue of a sense of humor too. So presumably the Aids meant to amuse the whole Station with his feeble quip. They might welf have a tough time, for the races which composed the audience had no fixed sexual organization which would make such a joke comprehensible. There were examples in front of him of gyniphagy (wife-eating) and of metazygy with stomach sharing (sexual union of Siamese twins) and of endosomatogamy (where an indi- vidual chooses his mate not merely from within his own tribe but from among the cells of his own body) and many others. There was a silence. Then apparently the Aids said something to the Asclepiad group, and they answered. Then the Aids spoke simultaneously to every group in the room. With a lift of the heart Mark realized that his job was done. Like the wind over a plain of grass a change ran over the room. The Loon-birds empurpled, whistled with disappointment and zipped out through their ventilator. The Woodweevils swallowed each other up until they had re-assembled their single persona. The Leprechaun opened its eye, drew its ear down into it, closed the eye on the ear and shut them both in its mouth. All round the room it was the same. Everyone reckoned the case was happily resolved. Even the original culprits, or plaintiffs, (whichever they were) the Fomalhauts, who before had sulked over the wrong they had suffered or been detected in inflicting (whichever it was), relaxed their hollow square into the interlocking circle of Quiet Pleasure. A soft answer turneth indeed away wrath, thought Mark. Aloud he said: "Okay, that's it." The Record printed: "Court adjourns sine die." Mark sat watching the assembled creatures leave in their own way. When they were gone he said confidentially to the Aids, "How did you do it?" "It was nothing," answered the Aids. "I made to each group the same basic suggestion, that, if performed with a life-partner (and I use the word in a punning sense, indicating thereby both cohabitors and commensals), actions which normally produce aversive stimuli actually produce reinforcing ones. And, with the permission of the Asclepiads, I cited certain contusions and abrasions for which they had to treat Miss Marylou." Mark was appalled. After a moment he asked, "And that wouldn't be a joke if something about someone and Miss Marylou wasn't supposed to be a secret?" "No, sir." "You know, you'll end on the gallows." "Yes, sir." "A joke's hardly a joke if it's a joke on you, is it?" "We wouldn't care to answer that, sir." "Good morning to you, then. Thank you for your help." B ack in his quarters, Mark changed his shirt and reflected grimly that the whole trial, including the Aids' version of a joke, would be on the Record, and the Record would very likely be at this moment in the colonel's hands. The now menacing tones of Earth Is Where My Heart Is interrupted his gloomy musings. Marylou appeared on the telephone. "Get your tie straight!" she shouted without preamble: "You're to see the colonel." "Oh, boy. Heap big trouble. This paleface is up the totem for sure this time." "This is no time for joking," she shouted agonizedly. "This is real trouble. He wants to see you in personV She knew what she was talking about. The last time the colonel had met anyone officially in person was at the trial of an Earth man for murder -- at his execution. "Man, I'm gone!" shouted Mark, and ran down the corridor towards the colonel's office, buttoning his cuffs as he went. He knocked once and heard the colonel's "Come in" before he dropped his hand. Inside the colonel sat at his desk, hard, strong, young-looking and ruthlessly efficient as he had often appeared on the telephone. His smooth coppery face was set as usual in an unrelenting expression of contemptuous dislike. "Sit down, Mark. I won't hurt you," he said surprisingly. Mark did so. "Look, Mark, this is my last command. I shaU never make the IF little hop back to Earth and to my own country, let alone see other countries on other stars as you will. Why? Because I'm old. Not in appearance, perhaps. But inside each cell totes up its own time-reckoning and there's nothing we can do to put the clock back. If you want to know the truth, this body's # years old. But I'm skillful at my job, and my job is to command you. And part of my skill is in knowing how to look when I command. You rarely see me. You know that. But do you know that when I telephone you, the words are mine but the speaker is an electronic face-voice simulacrum cooked up by Marylou? And when I have to appear in person I spend half a day down in the Asclepiads' stinking surgery, where the walls are lined with the pickled limbs of half the creatures of the galaxy and where the death-tubes are loaded with the day's quota? For in the morning I wake an old man, and noone may see me until my physician has remade me as the beautiful and terrible Indian prince. I'll show you something." Banerji leant forward and slowly unbuttoned his creaseless tunic. Inside Mark saw with a sudden sick horror that it was thickly and artfully padded. Underneath, his chest was the chest of an old man. Sharp edges of bone seemed ready to pierce the dry, wrinkled skin, and below his immaculate neckline the surface of his body was an ugly patchwork of brown and purple and fungoid white. "Now you know," said Banerji in his uncannily youthful voice. "And now I think you will understand that this Station is maintained and kept in order not by any mass of rules in a rulebook but by personal command. And that command is exercised by me. By my commanding words and by my commanding body. I am telling you this so that you will understand what you did today. You exercised command as I would do. Not perhaps in the way I would have done, but choosing your own method, imposing order on disorder, bringing submission out of revolt." "Why do you tell me this, sir?" asked Mark. "Because soon I shall go to my fathers, and you will go to take up a command of your own. And for that reason you must learn everything I have to teach." M ark was honestly proud that the colonel should thus treat him as an equal, but secretly he protested that he would never have to act the slave-driver in front of his own crew. "You are smiling now," said Banerji, "because you know that you will never have to use the proud airs and sordid subterfuges that I use. But I leave you with one thought. Your genius for command comes out in an admirably frank comradeliness, in a charming and self-deprecating gift of humor. It is the gift of your American heritage. But if as time goes on and your responsibility for the Government of your fellow beings becomes ever wider and greater, sometimes, in the privacy of your quarters, you need to practice and rehearse your charmingly spontaneous good humor -- then do not be ashamed." They sat for many moments in silence, and then the Indian said, "Back to your duties. Lieutenant. Constant and effortful vigilance." "Contsant and effortful vigilance, sir." Mark snapped and was gone. Back in his office he switched on the Aids. "Aids," he said in a phoney Australian accent. "You tell black-fellow Fomalhaut that white man savvy good-good make black fellow and black fellow woman chumchum." After a pause the adaptable Aids whined back, "Fair dinkum, cobber." "Cheerioh, old matey," said Mark, and switched to Marylou's channel. "Hiya handsome," he breathed intimately. "How about I take you over to the Mess and we stop all this Deprival of Joy?" Her face lit up. "Sure thing. Marco-boy. As soon as you like." "Five sim-minutes, then," he said and grinned boyishly at her. As she faded he buried his face in his hands. When you took up government, he thought, you take up a load as massy as the galaxy itself. He felt a thousand years old. But if that crazy old wreck Banerji can take it, so can Mark H assail! He got up, loosened his tie, tousled his hair and set out whistling m  i I A great new novel by one of your old favorites! Complete Science Fiction Novel of tomorrow's strange humans Plus Murray Leinster -- Cordwainer Smith -- and all your favorite writers October Galaxy still on sale at your favorite newsstand. Ask for your copy today! i I i I I IF IF  Feature # #T et us," says the feller, "eatL' up the street." "Oh no," says his girl friend, "I don't like asphalt." Which only goes to show how bubble-headed some guys girl-friends can get, for few substances known to man have proved so useful for so long. If today the number of uses for asphalt is pushing its second hundred thousand, it's only the result of an early start and straight A's ever since! There seems little doubt that the substance which forms the expansion joints between the concrete slabs of a superhighway is the same gunk used to coat the basket in which Moses was found amongst the bulrushes. The interlining of that paper bag you brought your ice cream home in yesterday is impregnated with much the same glop which waterproofed the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. "# sars of bitumen I poured over its outside; # sars I poured over its interior," says the Babylonian Epic of Gilgamesh, quoting one Noah, noted local ark-builder. "Bitumen" once was, and in some places still is, a synonym for "asphalt." The Romans used the former as a generic term for all natural hydrocarbons, for although "petroleum" -- literally "rock oil" -- is a perfectly sound term, it was not used in classical Latin. Up until' fifty years ago these hydrocarbons were, commercially, divided into three main groups -- natural gas, the liquid petroleum, and asphalt: gas, liquid, solid, all neat and convenient The name "asphalt" or "asphaltum" comes from the Greek: actually it was called pissasphaltum, the derivation being the same, no kidding, as the word "pitch." Ancient references to these substances are plentiful and fascinating, especially since the stuff has worldwide distribution, though of course uneven. Not only is it found almost everywhere, it occurs throughout the whole range of geological strata, from the really old Laurentian rocks to the most recent Quarternary layers. Hence you can match a Bob Hope wisecrack about the La Brea Tar Pits with Diodorus's account of the Dead Sea asphalt industry, which collected the material for shipment to Egypt, where it was Used to preserve the dead. As a matter of fact, the Egyptian word "mummy" comes from the ancient Persian word "mummai" which means nothing else in the world but -- asphalt. I n the King James Bible you'll find, in the account of the construction of the Tower of Babel (Genesis ix, #) that "slime had they for mortar," and further on xiv, #) that the vale of Siddim "was full of slimepits." The Tower, as a boondoggle, had a bad enough reputation without this kind of slur on the contractors; so let's look at the Vulgate Bible, where, sure enough, we find the word translated "bitumen" instead of "slime" and "slime-pits." These pits figure elsewhere in Genesis. It seems there were four kings of the Babylonian region who had themselves a war with the five kings of the Low Plain of Siddim. As Genesis xiv puts it: "Now the Low Plain of Siddim was pits upon pits of bitumen; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah took to flight and went falling into them, and those who remained fled into the mountainous region." And the GFs used to complain about mud! Anyway, there was so much bitumen around the Dead Sea, especially the southern tip, that the Romans used to call the Sea "Lake Asphaltitis." There are "lakes" of asphalt which are by no means mere figures of speech. The most celebrated of these is the one on the island of Trinidad. My oldest reference, which goes back sixty years, describes it as a hair over # acres, firm enough in most places to support a team of horses, though softer in the center. A "tramway", or mine railroad, was laid on palm leaves, and the asphalt was dug with pick and shovel, down to about two feet. In a day or so the excavated area would fill up again with soft material which hardened as it contacted the air. At that time they were pulling # tons annually, and the owners were paying the government a royalty of # a year. My most recent reference gives the area as # acres and says it has increased # acres in the past half-century; you can take your choice of the figures, but they're a quibble compared to the monstrous amounts that have come out of that sticky hole in the ground. The oldest estimate I can find for the amount ot asphalt in the lake is figured on # tons per foot of depth. But nobody knows how deep it is. A guess of # feet (average) would mean a reserve of # tons, which was the # estimate. Since tons and they're still calling it # acres. Some say it's # feet deep. Some say it's bottomless. IF There's a wonderfully consistent vagueness throughout the whole subject. Asphalt, like political convictions or science fiction, being a mixture not a compound, has a wide array of physical (non) constants, like specific gravity, melting point and solubility. Nobody seems to know just how it's formed, for the best guess -- that it's what's left of a petroleum deposit after the more volatile elements have evaporated -- really explains very little about what happens underground during the process, nor why, nor how come it has happened in so many places and times. The requirements would seem to be a very special combination of heat, gases, petroleum and mud, and some long-term churning. The result, quantitatively, for a representative sample, is about # per cent water; # per cent volatile bitumen; # per cent sulphur; ash, earth and such garbage, # per cent; and fixed carbon, # per cent. Chemically it's about # per cent carbon, # per cent hydrogen, # per cent nitrogen, # oxygen, and the rest, around # per cent sulphur. Some of the sulphur together with some of the oxygen and the asphalt, especially in the softer parts (like the gooshy pool in the center of the lake, which is locally called "mother of the lake") gives off considerable quantities of sulphur dioxide, a fragrance of rotten eggs. It keeps this up for some time after it's dug. A sphalt is now pumped, tanked and piped, for it can flow quite readily at around # degrees. Long cooking of a mash like this, however, can have frightening results, as for example the recent explosion of an asphalt tanker on a routine Gulf coast run. Nobody knows exactly what happened, but whatever it was, it happened swiftly and with great enthusiasm. Nothing was ever found of the ship or its crew but a few empty lifebelts and some scorched boards. Most asphalt, of course -- close to # per cent -- is used in road making. It's the tar in tarmac (the mac in macadam, a crushed-stone mix) and the black in blacktop. The rest goes into hundreds of thousands of other products and processes. As a component in concretes of various kinds, it makes wonderful shockproof foundations for hydraulic hammers, turret-lathes and such muscular machinery. It waterproofs swimming pools and roofing felt, makes rustpreventive paints and lacquers, floors, walks and trouble. (My brother and I, before we had two digits to our ages, discovered roofing tar as a substitute for bubble gum. We sat for hours in the hot sun, just chewing. It was the tarred roof we sat on. After our pants were pried off, we were sent to bed. My brother still had his cud. During the night it fell out of his face and welded his hair to the sheet. He couldn't get undraped until they shaved him bald as a bullet. ) Tile-makers couldn't get along without asphalt, nor automobile manufacturers, nor tree-surgeons. Nor could you. His past had been destroyed. He had no future. Yet he bore, buried within himself, the seeds of Man's only hope! W#tS ! #i The Characters but he could not remember his crime, though the iron collar he wore around his neck reminded him of it night and day. Chosen by charge of a special research project, Ryeland found himself giving orders to generals, colonels, celebrated scientists-who resented it, and showed their resentment in a thousand ways. It was a puzzling situation. Even more puzzling was the project itself, which was simply to develop "a jetless drive -- a new spacepropulsion system which would allow the forces of the Plan of Man to expand into the half-mythical bodies that circled the Sun far beyond Pluto. It seemed impossible. And yet -- there was the spaceling, the queer creature from the distant Reefs of Space that itself seemed to have such a drive. Ryeland was given the captive spaceling to experiment on, though it was the property of pestuous woman, who would surely find revenge if he harmed the creature that was her pet. It was a difficult life, and it led to catastrophe... for Ryeland's rebellious subordinates founcf a way to discredit him with the Machine, and he was ordered off the jetless-drive project and thrown into the Body Bank, that scrapheap for waste dtizens and criminals too far gone for salvage, where their sole remaining task was to give up the orgons of their bodies to repair more useful men and women. It was the end of the tine, there was no doubt of it. Yet fate held a still more shattering blow. In the Body Bank Ryeland met again what his crime had been and why he could not remember it. To hir horror, she did. Ryeland learned why so much of his memory war shodowy ond cenfvsed... for he was not a notural man! He was a 'junk mon'- -- created out of costoff parts .and bits of tissue, nothing but a dummy that some more fortunate vidini of the Body Bank had contrived as a screen to cover his escape! Desperate, Ryeland tried to flee the Body Bank -- but he was caught and hurried to the Administration Building where someone waited to see him. He did not know who; he did not know why. But surely it could not matter any more. Nothing worse could happen -- he had nothing left, not even a body of his owni IF T 'hey rushed him through the corridors, into a room, left him there for a moment; they threw a pair of coveralls at him, gave him barely time to squirm into them and paid no attention to the fact that they were four sizes too small. "It doesn't matter where you're going," rumbled the guard with the white tunic and the red heart. "Come on!" And they led him to another room and once again left him. Through an open door Ryeland saw an operating theater. Thank heaven for meprobomate, he thought without emotion, for this was undoubtedly the end of the trail. The asepsis lights were burning over the twin tables; a full Q. R. crew was in view behind the transparent contamination-bar. On one table was a man of Ryeland's approximate build, with a great sighing bellows box pumping air through a complicated nest of piping. A lung machine? Yes. And the man, Ryeland knew, was about to get new lungs. And the lungs would have to cOme, of course, from Ryeland... Or would they? Ryeland was baffled. For both tables were occupied, the one with a cadaver from Heaven as well as the one with a useful citizen come to collect a new part. It was very queer. But it only meant, probably, he assured himself, that he would be the donor for the next useful part. It was not kind of them to make him witness the operation, of course. But the Plan of Man was only impersonally kind. He glanced at the scene, looked away, then watched with helpless fascination. Faintly he could hear the brisk, businesslike orders of the surgeon, slitting skin, slicing through muscle, sculpting bone... The operation was nearly over when he heard a sound behind him. He turned. Donna Creery walked in the door. Donna Creery! She looked at him as though he were furniture. "Took you long enough to get him," she said grumpily to the man behind her -- chief surgeon of the Clinic, by his bearing and his frown. "All right. I've got this -- " she waved a radar gun -- "so he won't give me any trouble. Will you, Ryeland?" The surgeon said doubtfully, "It's most irregular." "You've seen the Machine's order," purred Donna Creery, and waved a strip of factape. "Oh," said the surgeon hastily, "of course. Miss Creery. You know I wouldn't -- But it's most irregular, all the same." Donna nodded coldly and beckoned to Ryeland. "The Machine does not have to be regular," she said. "Now show us how to get to my rocket." T hey were out of the clinic beyond the wall, out to a landing pit. And there was Donna Creery's rocket speedster, squatting on its fins. The girl whispered: "Chiquita!" Ryeland said strongly, "Wait a minute, Miss Creery Where are you taking me?" She looked at him thoughtfully. "I have orders from the Machine," she said after a moment. "They direct me to take you to another Heaven, where you are needed for a rush repair job on an important member of the Planning staff." "That sounds peculiar," he protested. "Oh, very. Chiquita!" The girl stamped her foot and glared into the ship. There was a golden movement inside, then a faint blue luminous haze. The spaceling floated out. Its tawny eyes were fixed worshipfully on Donna Creery. It wriggled felinely in the air, curled, spun -- in pure joy, it seemed -- and halted, poised in the air, before her. Ryeland started to speak. "Shut up," whispered the girl. "There isn't time to argue. You've got to get out of here before they come to take you back." "Back? But why should they do that? The travel orders from the Machine -- " " -- are forged" She met his gaze calmly. "Yes. I forged them myself, so I should know So the surgeon will be looking for you, as soon as he gets around to filing a routine report of compliance with the Machine. And that will be -- what would you say? Five minutes?" "But I don't understand!" "You don't have to understand!" the girl blazed. "There isn't timel I'm trying to save your life. Also -- " she hesitated. "Truthfully there's another reason. My father needs you." "The Planner? But -- but -- why would he have to forge orders from the Machine?" "I can't tell you now." She stared around. No one was in sight. She said grimly, "Heaven help you if anything goes wrong. I can't take you in my rocket; there isn't room. Anyway, that's the first place they'll look. I don't think they'll bother me. But if you're there -- " She shrugged. "Then what am I supposed to do?" "Do?" she cried. "Why get on Chiquita's back! What do you think I brought her for? Just get on -- she knows where to take you!" R yland rode the spaceling; it was like mounting a running stream. A slim golden shape, more slender than a seal, floating in the air; gold, pure gold that blended into black at the tail, it was the strangest mount a man ever bestrode. Donna said a quick word of command. The spaceling purred faintly, rippled its lazy muscles and whoom. It was like a muffled slap of metal. Suddenly they had leaped a hundred feet into the air. There was no shock, no crushing blow of acceleration. There was just a quick vibrant lift, and they were high in the air. Through the thin coveralls that were his only garment Ryeland felt the purring vibration of the spaceling's body. Down below he saw the Planner's daughter already entering her rocket. She did not intend to wait for trouble. The jets flared. Ryeland heard the sound -- but it was receding, receding although the rocket had already begun to climb; they were climbing too, and fast, Ryeland was breathless. He clung to the spaceling. There was no pressure; only his arms held him to that bare, warm, smooth back. His stomach fluttered. His breathing caught. Down below he saw men moving, insects on the lawn and the walks. But they were not looking up, probably couldn't see him if they did; it was still night, and the hovering helicopters, with their floodlights were between him and the ground. They were n.?arly a thousand feet in the air now. Donna's rocket, a black dot in the center of its own petaled flame, seemed plastered against the concrete of the pit below. Only the fact that its size stayed constant showed that it was following them; then even it began to dwindle. Off to the northeast was a storm, the warning cirrus veil across the sky, the dark towering cumulonimbus, the rain squalls already marching across the dark mountains of Cuba. Jhe spaceling turned toward the storm. "Wait!" cried Ryeland. "Don't go into thatV But the spaceling didn't understand, or wouldn't. It purred warmly, like a fat kitten, and arrowed toward the menacing cloud with its violent gusts. And still Ryeland felt no motion. All his body was accelerated uniformly by the spaceling's field, whatever it was. The air came with them, the pocket which the spaceling wore like a halo, its blue shroud of faintly glowing light. Their flight was not quite noiseless, though nearly; the only sound was a faint distant tearing, though they were barreling through the sky at surely sonic speed. Incredible! Ryeland's mathematician's mind fitted pieces together; the spaceling, he thought, must form a capsule ' which instantly shapes itself to meet the resistance -- forming the perfect streamline shape for its needs, blunt teardrop at a hundred miles an hour, needle as it approached sound's speed, probably wasp-waisted area-rule profile at higher speeds. And still there was no sense of motion, though Heaven had dropped away behind them and was gone. N ow they were over water. All around them was cloud. They were hurtling into the furious wall of towering thunderstorms that was the forefront of a hurricane. Cold rain drenched him in an instant. That was curious, thought the objective, never-stilled part of his mind; rain penetrated the capsule where the rush of air did not! But there was no time to think of it. The rain was pelting icewater, unthe spaceling, too. Its satisfied purr changed to a complaining mew; it shook and shuddered. But it plunged on. Ryeland was hopelessly lost. The storm was the same in all directions, a dim void of fog and icy water, flickering with distant lightning. But the spaceling knew where it was going... he hoped. They drilled through the top of the clouds and came out above them into clear air. Underneath them the shape of the storm revealed itself in a great spiral, the hurricane wheeling around its open eye. A bright light burst on him. It was the sun, rising again on the western horizon -- they were that high! It was a blaze of incandescence in the dark; and still they climbed. A great elation possessed Ryeland. He had done the impossible! He had escaped, with all his limbs and faculties, from the hell they called Heaven! He was no longer a numbered carcass; he was a man again. And Donna Creery had done it, where he had failed; he owed her something. He wondered briefly what it was she had failed to tell him about her father; then dismissed it. That wonder was lost in the greater soaring wonder of free flight. The sky was black around them -- surely the air was thin now. And still they climbed, while the vast hazy floor of sea and cloud became visibly convex. And still they climbed; and the air was thin now. That was all wrong! Ryeland knew that much; the spaceling's field should hold the air. But the creature itsejf was gasning now, panting. Its purring and mewing had tujned into the choking cough of a tiger. They still climbed, but Ryeland could feel the creature falter. They were at a dangerous altitude. Suddenly he was breathless. His drenched body was chilled through, even in the white, bright glare of the naked sun. It was the spaceling's wounds that were endangering them now, Ryeland realized. Gottling's torture chamber had left its marks. The creature's symbiotes had been destroyed, or some of them had. Its fusorians that gave it power, its parasitic Reef animalcules that made it possible for a warm-blooded airbreather to live in space in the first place, their numbers had been greatly diminished. They were not all gone, for there was still some air. It filled his grasping lungs, kept his body fluids from boiling out, screened him at least a little from the cold and the even more deadly UV of the sun. There was some air... but was there enough? Ryeland laughed grimly, with almost the last of his breath. "That's what I'll find out," he panted, hoarsely... and passed out. He was not conscious of the moment when he blacked out; he only knew that he was going.   sheer vonder that he was alive. Donna Creery's perfect face bent over him, making the wonder all the greater. "I made it," he whispered incredulously. The girl said seriously, "Yes, so far. But don't crowd your luck, Ryeland. We're still in trouble." He stirred to get up -- and floated free, until the girl's restraining hand pushed him back against the metal acceleration couch. They were in a spaceship, apparently in IF free-fall. He looked around. Automatically he said, "I've got to find a -- " He stopped. He had been about to ask where the teletype was, so that he could check in with the Machine. But that was no longer necessary, of course. Donna Creery gestured at the cabin of the spaceship. "You like it, Steven? It's yours." He was startled. "Mine?" "Oh, yes. Do you remember the ship that General Fleemer equipped for you, with remote controls from Point Triangle Gray? This is it -- with some changes. I've removed the remote controls. But it was a perfectly good interplanetary rocket, right in orbit where Chiquita could bring you to it. Only -- " she looked worried. "Only I'm surprised that Father isn't here." Ryeland shook his head. "I'm sorry," he said. "I don't understand. Why does the Planner want me here?" She said, "He ought to tell you himself, but perhaps I can. Did you know, Steven, that in the past two months there have been over a hundred major seismic shocks? And they always seem to strike centers of population. My father thinks -- well, it doesn't sound right when I say it. He thinks the Machine is doing it." "The Machine!" "I know, Steven. But Father is worried. He has discovered that General Fleemer and others have been tampering with the Machine! Father is a good man, Steven, and he says he does not understand this. But I do. Fleemer wants to control the Machine -- because he wants to control the Plan of Man -- and destroying the project for discovery of a jetless drive is only one step in his plan. All those seismic shocks and accidents with subtrain tubes and fusion reactors and the new ion drives -- they're all part of it, too. Deliberate sabotage! "And, oh, Steven! How well it has worked! The Machine is only transistors and relays, you know; it knows nothing but what is fed into it. Fleemer has managed to corrupt its input circuits, and now the Machine is almost openly hostile to Father, and the whole crux of the matter right now is the jetless drive. The Machine has come to think that such a drive will destroy the Plan of Man. It has overruled Father's orders on it -- oh, a thousand times -- so that Father has to resort to subterfuge and tricks. He let me rescue you, as one of his moves. But I'm afraid it's too late." She moved away, peering worriedly at the viewports on the spaceship's panel. "They don't seem to be following Not yet, anyhow." Ryeland noticed he was shivering. It was not cold in the ship, but he had only the ill-fitting coveralls to wear and they were soaked through. "Who?" he demanded. "The Plan police," she said, surprised. "General Fleemer will be after Chiquita, even if they don't suspect you are with me. Though we can't count on that, of course; it wouldn't be unreasonable for the Machine to inform them that I had rescued you from Heaven He was going to kill Chiquita, you see, so I stole her." She frowned as Ryeland shook his head. "Why shouldn't I steal her?" the girl flared. "She was mine! And the only safe place for Chiquita is out in space -- out on the Reefs, if I can get her there. And, of course, that's the only safe place for you." Ryeland said angrily, "You're asking me to run away from the Machine! You want me to be an outlaw!" "Oh, Steven, what do you think you are? Have you forgotten Heaven already? I saved your life... You're lucky you got here," she said seriously, stroking the spaceling. "I wasn't at all sure Chiquita could make the jump from atmosphere." "Neither was I." She smiled, and for a moment she was the impish, confident girl who had interviewed him in her bath. But quickly her face clouded again. "I wish Father would come," she said. "Chiquita can't live forever without getting back to the Reefs to replenish her fusorians. And I -- well, I sent my own rocket back to Earth and crashed it where they'll find it. Perhaps they'll think we were both killed. But," she said calmly, "they would have to be stupid to be deceived very long, and the Machine is never stupid. It's -- I don't know -- unbalanced, now. But it is thorough. Father and I discussed it thoroughly; he knows the Machine well. He thinks we have about twelve hours." "Then what?" "Why, then the Machine will trigger your collar." IF I nvoluntarily Ryelands fingers came up to touch the dull metal that encircled his neck. The girl was right; that was what the machine would do. Twelve hours? He didn't know; but probably the Planner did. All right. Then in twelve hours they had to be out of range. "Can we get away from the Machine's radar beam in twelve hours?" he demanded. "I don't know, Steven. I think so. The Machine may not realize that you are in space." The girl restlessly prowled toward the viewports. "But Father isn't here. I don't know how long we can afford to wait. Once we get out to the Reefs, of course, there's nothing to worry about. You won't have your collar any more." He looked startled. She smiled. "Don't you remember, Steven? Ron Donderevo. The man who got his iron collar off; he's out there. I'm sure he can do the same with yours." Restlessly Ryeland touched his collar. "Please," he begged. "Tell me what you know about Donderevo"... about, he thought silently, the man this junk body of mine was built to replace. "You know everything there is to tell. Or almost," she said. "He was once a friend of my father -- in spite of all their differences over the future of the Plan of Man. It was Donderevo who first told my father something about the spacelings and the reefs, and convinced him that the Machine should try to develop a jetless drive. "Unfortunately, when the Plan took over his people, Donderevo engaged in disloyal activities. For that reason he was classified as a Risk and finally sent to the stockpile. The fact that Father communicated with him while he was in the stockpile, and finally connived at his escape, is one of the charges that Fleemer is using now in his effort to discredit Father with the Machine. "I think Donderevo might be able to help Father now, in this fight with Fleemer for control of the Machine and the future of the Plan. At least he could tell the Machine more about the reefs than it got from Lescure's reports -- after Fleemer had finished doctoring them. And that's where we must go, Steve -- to find Donderevo, out to the Reefs of Space!" Ryeland was suddenly afraid to tell Donna how desperately he wanted to see Ron Donderevo. Donderevo might help him remove the iron collar. Donderevo might help him clear up the fog of oblivion and contradiction in his past. But it was also possible that Donderevo would tell him that the collar could not be removed -- not without the elaborate surgical facilities available only at the stockpile. It was even possible that Donderevo would affirm what Angela had told him -- that he was a junk man, a meat machine patched together from a few bits of waste tissue, not worth saving from the collar. If that were true, he thought, he couldn't stand for Donna Creery ever to find it out. The Planner's daughter -- and a few pounds of salvaged human garbage. The gulf between them would be too wide for any warm emotion to cross. Donna Creery looked again at the viewports and sighed. 'T don't know why Father isn't here," she said, "but we dare not wait any longer. I'll send him a message and we'll go. Even the Machine's normal radar beam might reach out this far; we've got to get out of range." She smiled. "It isn't only for your sake, you know. If that collar were triggered in this little ship..." She pursed her lips gravely and shook her head. XV R yeland was deep in a dream of an armless, legless blonde with Oporto's grinning face coming at him with a sonic hacksaw. When the earth began to shake, his body vibrated like a harpstring... and he awoke. Donna Creery was leaning over him. Uncomfortably he stretched and rubbed his tingling hands and ankles. It took him several seconds to wake up. Not unusual; the sleep that spans interplanetary distances is not lightly thrown off. They had put themselves under for what was to have been a voyage of a hundred and fifty days. Were they at the end of it already? But Donna's face was worried, and there was a loud excited mewing from the ship's cargo lock. Ryeland groaned and tried to shake the aches out of his bones. Thank heaven they were in space, he thought. The mild thrust of Hohmann-minima orbits kept the endless contact of body-to-bed from producing the bed sores and bruises that would have been inevitable on Earth. "Steven!" the girl cried frantically. "Sorry," he mumbled, shook himself and woke up at last. "What's the matter?" "Chiquita's gone crazy!" He grunted and climbed up, peering into the cargo hold. The spaceling was flashing about the lock like a tom on the trail of a skulking mouse. She was mewing frantically. "Are we here?" "No, Steven! But Chiquita got so excited that she triggered the alarms and woke me up. We should be traveling for days yet!" "All right. Let's see what's bothering her." "But there's nothing to see. We're in deep space now, Steven. Far out beyond Pluto -- and yet surely not as far as the Reefs. There couldn't possibly be anything here that could bother her..." She stopped, listening. Both of them heard it at the same moment. It was an irritated hammering sound. They stared at each other. It came again, a muffled banging on their ship's hull. "Let's take a look," Ryeland said grimly. The viewports showed nothing, but on the outer door of the airlock was a small window, shielded against chance radiation. Ryeland slipped the catch and slid open the shields. A man stared in, with an expression of impatient annoyance. A man! Ryeland and the girl looked at IF each other and then at the face that peered in on them. It was quite impossible. But it was undeniably true. T he man did not even wear a spacesuit. He wore a ragged blanket, hammering on the valve of the airlock with the handle of a long knife. He was a lean little redbearded man, not young. Donna cried out suddenly. "Steven! I know him. His name is Quiveras. Why, he brought Chiquita to Earth -- to rescue Donderevo from the stockpile." She hesitated, then said abruptly: "Open the lock, Steven." "What?" "Open the lock, man!" "But the air -- " "Oh, there's no worry about that," she said impatiently. "Look!" She pointed behind the man's head where a smooth-lined shape rippled. Another spaceling! No wonder Chiquita had been so upset; undoubtedly she had sensed its presence, a creature like herself though larger and darker. "He's got his own air. The spaceling carried it. How do you suppose he lives? Open the lock!" Ryeland hesitated. Reason told him the girl was right; there could be no other explanation. Reason was certain; but his emotional conditioning against opening a door to the great exploding suck of space was too powerful to give in to mere reason without combat; it took a great deal of self-discipline for Ryeland to turn the valve key. But he did it. A metallic whine; a hiss of equalizing pressure. And the lock was open, and they were still breathing air -- queerly scented air, with a faint, hot, chemical bouquet, but not unpleasant. The little man hurried inside. He whistled sharply and his spaceling followed. It was a red-nosed, stub-winged seal, its nose" pulsing with red light. Its huge eyes peered around the chamber; it was whining shrilly with pleasure and excitement. "Wait!" cried the little man. The spaceling was frantic, but obedient; it paused in the lock while the man spun the closing valve. Then Quiveras said, "All right, Adam. Go meet your friend." The two spacelings flew at each other. Around and around the narrow cargo compartment they spun, mewing and purring in soprano-baritone counterpoint. Quiveras grinned. "Ah, the children! How happy to see each other they are!' He bowed and took off his rag of a hat. "And I, sir and madam. I am Quintano Quivaro Quiveras, your humble servant." He looked again at Donna Creery and smiled with real pleasure. "Ah, the Planner's daughter! It is good to see you! And you, sir; it is good to see you as well, though I do not as yet know your name." "Steve Ryeland." He put out his hand, and gravely they shook. Donna managed to say: "We're pleased to see you too, Mr. Quiveras. But -- " "But what is Quiveras doing here?" The man smiled and bowed again. "Ah, perhaps I may help. My Adam felt the presence of Chiquita here." He reached out and stroked the golden she-spaceling; the two of them hung poised, their flanks touching, just behind him. "So he wished to join you; and then, there is another reason." The smile left his face. "My Adam and I, we have been watching you for some time. Adam has excellent vision, apart from the way that spacelings have of knowing another spaceling is near even when vision is of no use. And Adam saw something. With his help, I saw it too." "What's that?" "Why," said Quiveras seriously, "perhaps you do not know it, but you are being followed by a heavy war rocket of the Plan of Man." I nvoluntarily Ryeland's fingers stole up to touch his collar. Donna Creery's face turned chalkwhite. Their signal to the Planner must have been intercepted; Fleemer knew where they were. The equations of military affairs in open space admit of only one solution: The faster vessel could always force battle on the slower. The logic of the radar-pulse that would trigger the collar on Ryeland's neck made it certain that the battle could be decided only one way. If they fled, the Plan cruiser would overtake them. If they stopped their jets, it would calculate course and position from the last recorded points with no chance whatsoever of error. The jets made a magnificent target, their light and heat a beacon escape would plot another blip on the Plan cruiser's thermal screens. And then the radar pulse would detonate the collar. Ry eland said harshly: "Can we fight? Are there any arms on the ship?" Quiveras's gnarled face took on an expression of surprise. "Fight against the Plan? Oh, no, my young friend. We do not fight them; that is their way. We follow our way. We merely run away." He nodded. "We Reefs, yes; it is a considerable journey. But at the end of the journey is freedom. Perhaps even -- " he followed Ryeland's stroking fingers on the collar with his eyes -- "freedom from that thing about your neck." "We have no lifeboat!" Quiveras pursed his lips. He pointed to the two spacelings, frolicking about. iRyeland said with quick comprehension: "The jetless drive! Of course. They can get us away from our rocket, and as they do not use thermal propulsion, the Plan ship won't be able to spot them. But -- the female is injured, Quiveras. She almost killed me before, in just a few minutes in space. Look." He indicated the ridged scars Colonel Gottling had left on her golden fur. "But she's had time to heal, Steven!" cried Donna Creery. "Don't forget we've been aspace for over four months!" Quiveras looked suddenly worried. Ignoring the girl, he dropped to one knee and crooned to the spaceling. Chiquita frolicked over and hung before him, purring faintly as he stroked the scars. At last Quiveras IF looked up, his gnarled face concerned. "These were bad wounds, Miss Creery. I did not think you would treat her like that." "It wasn't I!" Quiveras shook his head. Obstinately, he said, "They are bad. I do not know if she will ever altogether heal." Ryeland said stonily, "Are you telling us that we can't get away by spaceling, then?" "Oh, no!" The little man was upset. "I did not mean to frighten you. My Adam can hold enough air for us all, I promise. We must go quickly." "No," said Ryeland. The girl and Quiveras paused, staring at him. "Not like that," he said. "This rocket was equipped for me, to work out some of the problems of the jetless drive. I need that equipment -- for, if it is as important as you say, we must have it. The spacelings will have to tow it -- No," he said, not letting Quiveras object, "I know it will be difficult. But I must have it. And one other thing." Quiveras looked at him coldly, then at last smiled. "Very well. If and Chiquita can pull along whatever it is you want. What is the other thing?" Ryeland said: "I want to set a fuse on this ship's fuel compartment. I don't want them poking around in it after we go; I want to blow it up." I n ten minutes they had locked out some tons of computers, electronic instruments, a power source and a handful of other gear; Ryeland took another five to wire contacts to a time-clock and set them to explode the ship's fuel, and then they were ready to leave the spaceship. It was like making up one's mind to leap off a building. They stood in the open airlock, and there outside was the universe of stars. Ryeland felt more helpless and small than ever before in his life; how could human flesh survive that great cold barrage of light? But Quiveras assured them that the spaceling's bubble of gas had remained about the ship, held there by the spaceling even through the ship's hull. And in fact, they could see strange shapes and colors, hardly visible with their eyes, still used to the bright ship's interior and dazzled by the distant display of multitudinous suns. Ryeland and the girl joined hands and leaped, and they floated into the world of the spaceling. They felt nothing, but they began to move away. The two spacelings swam among them, apparently unheeding, but the jetless drive their bodies produced was moving them all at a tangent to the rocket's line of flight, diverging from it slowly. As they drew off from the ship, the captive air the spaceling carried with it detached itself from its resting places along the hull of the ship. The bubble condensed. The air became denser. Scraps of solid material drifted into place. Behind them, in a long string pointing toward the rocket ship they had left, an occasional glint of starshine showed the trail of instruments Ryeland had demanded they take with them. But they saw them only briefly, and then the spaceling's world was coalescing about them, and it was a fairyland. I t was incredible! Donna and Ryeland stared about, unbelieving. As the bits and pieces sorted themselves into their accustomed relationships they became a cool green cloud, so bright that Ryeland could hardly see the stars outside. Strangeleafed vines twined through the cloud," laden with clusters of unfamiliar fruit. Small creatures that were half fish and half bird flitted through the vines. They were at the center, and as the air reached earth-normal density the invisible small creatures that gave it light and life were thickly packed about them. They could move. Ryeland roamed restlessly around the mad little bubble of life they inhabited, with naked space only yards away, staring, thinking, asking quick questions of Quiveras. The little man had apologetically few answers for him, but the facts spoke for themselves. 'Tncredible!" he muttered. "Fantastic!" He caught himself on a tendril of vine eighteen inches from the faint veil that marked the end of the bubble and stared out at the stars. He could recognize no constellations; great Orion and the mighty Southern Cross alike were out there, but buried in a swarm of thousands of lesser lights, invisible on earth but here a snow-sprinkling of radiance. One great blue-white needle lanced IF him, and he knew that he had found nuclear energy at the light end of one star at least. That could only the scale; if the fusorians made be Sirius, many magnitudes brighter only light elements there would be than from Earth's surface, painful too much release of energy, we'd all to look at directly. be dead in a moment, one way or Behind him Donna said hesitantanother. But up past silver fusion ly, "Steven, what is all this?" takes energy..." He shook his Ryeland turned at last to confront head. "Sorry. But I can't help runher. "It's remarkable! I think I unning on about it. This is a complete derstand it, though... The drive little world, with its own complete field holds this little cloud of air. economy." Moving through space, it picks up Donna asked simply, "What about dust and hydrogen gas. These vines food?" have fusorian cells, that fuse the Quiveras interrupted. "Ah, foodV hydrogen into oxygen, carbon and he cried. He launched himself all the other elements -- and also through the air like a swimmer in release light and heat enough for the water, the vines like a strange seaspaceling's metabolism, or for ours. weed. He gathered his hands full of I'd guess," he said thoughtfully, the bright fruits and came soaring "that there's a fair proportion of back. He begged: "Try them! They heavy elements in those plants. Conare good. Platinum? Gold? I do not servation of energy. Fusion liberates know about heavy elements, Mr. Ryeland. But I know about flavorf' At that moment a great soundless flower of fire unfolded behind them. They all whirled to look. Ryeland said soberly: "There goes our rocket. I hope we're going to like this place, Donna. It's all we've got now." T hey gathered close to the film at the very rim of the bubble, peering out. "Not too close," warned Quiveras. "You must not stick even your little finger through it. You will be blown out, you see." Ryeland looked startled, then, after a moment, nodded. "Of course. Anything much larger than a molecule is not reflected, eh? And once the field was penetrated, it would be forced out by the pressure differential." Very cautiously they settled themselves to peer out at the ship they had left behind. The flame was gone, but even in its microseconds it had heated metal to red incandescence and they could see a ruddy skeleton that was all that was left of the craft's main supporting beams. The hull and fitting were scattered by the blast; but near the dark red glow they could make out faint points of light. The war rocket, Quiveras declared positively. The lights they saw were the flare of its auxiliary rockets as it matched position with the abandoned hulk. The spacelings hung looking out through the tangle of glowing vines, searching the dark outward sky. They made oft murmuring and whimpering sounds. Quiveras istened to them, stroking their sleek fur. crooning to them gently. "They are watching the Plan rocket," he told the others. "The ship radiates its own infrared. They can see it well, now that it is coming closer." "Closer?" Ryeland was startled. "Of course, Mr. Ryeland. The Plan is not stupid." "But -- they must think we are dead! And even if not, they have no way of tracing the spacelings' jetless drive -- " "Nor have they," Quiveras told him solemnly. "The Plan is merely thorough. I can understand what they are saying in that cruiser. 'Did they have an escape vessel? If so, where would they be going?' To the Reefs. And the Plan knows vhere the Reefs must be." The spacelings were growing uneasy. "And our friends here are tiring," Quiveras said soberly. "They need rest. Carrying all of us, and all of your equipment, Mr. Ryeland -- even for two of them it is a great load. They cannot go faster, and so they are going to try to hide. There." He pointed out through the glowing vines. of their little atmosphere was in his way. He kicked himself -- very warily! -- to the other end of their bubble and hung, clutching a vine and staring; but if there was something to see his untrained eyes could not make it out. Quiveras followed. "It is a cluster of Reefs," he explained. "There, near those three blue-white stars." Ryeland's Earth-adapted eyes were not equal to the task. But Chiquita and Adam slipped close to him IF and hung among the bright leaves, their sad eyes staring into the starsprinkled space ahead. Ryeland shook his head. "I don't see anything at all." "Nor did I," Quiveras agreed, "until the spacelings showed me. We are not equipped to find a pebble in the dark, countless miles away; but they are." Ryeland said doubtfully, "Even if there are Reefs there, and we get to them -- can't the Plan rocket follow us?" Quiveras shrugged. "Of course. But the Reefs are in a thicker cloud than this little bubble of Adam's, Mr. Ryeland. There are swarms of the little fireflies that you call fusorians; they'll fog his search screens. There are hunks of bigger stuff that will slow him down -- perhaps even wreck him, Mr. Ryeland, if he should be careless! Still, he may get through and find us. Yes. It is a chance, but we have no choice but to take it." They drove on for hours, there was no way of measuring just how long. As destination and pursuer were alike invisible to Ryeland, there were only the shrouded stars as reference points, and their great distance was not affected by the tiny crawl of the spacelings. Adam and Chiquita seemed hardly to be working, as they slipped supplely about through the vines, yet Quiveras assured Ryeland they were moving nearly as fast as the Plan cruiser, in spite of the trail of machines that followed them. Then Quiveras said, "We are almost there!" Ryeland sought among the stars for "there". What made it hardest was that there was neither bow nor stern to their tiny captive world, no sure way of knowing which way they were going. He could find nothing. The stars shone splendid and unobscured, as he hung at nearly the edge of their air capsule -- red stars, blue-white giants, clouds of nebular matter... Then he saw the Reef ahead. I t appeared first as a pale point of light that suddenly grew into a bulging, uneven sphere of splendor. It was a jeweled ball, floating in space, and the jewels were forests of crystal. They came closer, like a comet, then slower. Ryeland saw spiked trees of crystal carbon -- diamond! -- glittering with their own inner light. There were strange bulging brain-shaped masses of blue and violet, patches of ghostly white sand, a frozen forest with bright metal leaves. It was an incredible fairyland to Ryeland and the girl, but Quiveras surveyed it with a shrewd professional eye and shook his head. "Not a good place to hide," he said, peering at the glowing ball. "Still, that solid part might be useful. The Reefs are mostly hollow -- because they're dead inside." Ryeland nodded. "I suppose the surface organisms are the ones that pick up the free hydrogen and grow. The ones inside die of starvation." Quiveras was not listening. He cried gleefully: "Yes! There is a cave! -- If it is not already occupied." Ryeland stared at him. Quiveras shrugged. "These Reefs do not have much gravitation; something must be holding the air there, as the spacelings do. It could be another spaceling. It could be small cells in the Reef itself -- each Reef is its own world, I do not pretend that I know what to expect on this one. But it could be something quite bad." He raised a hand. "Wait. Let us see." The jeweled ball swam closer. "Watch," ordered Quiveras. "See how Chiquita enters the air of this Reef. Adam is pulling us now; Chiquita is controlling our atmosphere. Do you see?" The female spaceling was darting about, while Adam hung motionless. "I did wonder about that," admitted Ryeland. "When the two spheres meet, air pressure will be forcing them apart." Quiveras shook his head. "See, she airlocks the Reef in." Ryeland stared. They came closer to the Reef and closer. From the frightened movements of the little fishbirds, he saw that the shell was being contracted; yet there was no increase of pressure -- "I see!" he cried suddenly. "She is setting up another shell, big enough for both us and the Reef! Then she'll collapse our inner shell, letting the air leak out as it contracts to keep the pressure steady!" Quiveras nodded. There was a sudden vibration, as though the shock-front of a distant explosion had raced past them, and a clicking in their cars. The inner shell was finally gone. Ryeland stared about his new world. The steady rain of starlight, even through their light-fogged atmosphere, gave him a view of a wonderland. The sun itself, hardly brighter than Sirius, made yellowish sparkles in the crystal branches of the -- could he call it "vegetation"? But Quiveras gave him little time to admire the world. "Now we must do our art, Mr. Ryeland," he grinned. Ryeland saw that the two spacelings were hanging at a distance from the dark cave mouth, regarding it with huge wet eyes. Their red noses flickered swiftly. They whimpered, and a shudder ran along Chiquita's scarred flank. "What is our part?" Quiveras said calmly: "The spacelings have natural enemies -- clumsy, armored killers. Very slow -- too slow to catch the spacelings out in space. But extremely deadly. They wait for them in places like these." He said politely, "So we must ferret into this burrow, Mr. Ryeland, if you will do me the honor to join Q uiveras propelled himself to the mouth of the cave, peered inside, looked at the others and shrugged. "We will see," was all he said. Calmly he unwrapped a bundle of rags and took out an old Plan Police handweapon. He was not very skillful with it; he worried at it until he had opened the clip, checked the number of charges it contained -- Ryeland saw that it only held four; # IF undoubtedly Quiveras had found it difficult to obtain them -- snapped it closed and balanced it in his hand. Then with the heel of his worn boot he kicked at a stalagmite of greenish crystal until it broke free. It was eighteen inches long or more and quite sharp. It made a queer but serviceable sword, Ryeland thought, and then realized that it made an even better torch. The interior of the cave was dark. The crystal sword glowed with its trapped fusorian cells. Quiveras scrambled into the cave and Ryeland followed, unable to look at the girl. It was a strange dark lair of winding passages. The entrance was worn smooth -- alarmingly -- as though large bodies had been scraping in and out. Ryeland thought swiftly of the probable age of the Reef, and felt somewhat reassured. Time moved along different scales out here. Change could be lightning fast, or ponderously slow; those ledges might have been worn smooth dark passages, smooth-worn rock walls made of the bodies of onceliving fusorians, had perhaps been dead when the Earth was still a boiling incandescent blob. There simply was no way to tell. Nor had Ryeland any idea of how long or deep the passages might be. They were as labyrinthine as the maze inside a head of sea-coral, where tiny crustaceans wait for tinier fish to blunder in. Quiveras paused where the passage branched -- and, within sight, both divisions inside a dozen yards branched again. He was staring at the wall. As Ryeland joined him, he saw what Quiveras had seen. The worn sides of some of the passages bore curving parallel scars, as though they had been rasped by the claws of some incredible monster. Quiveras said cheerfully, "That one looks the most used, Mr. Ryeland. If we only knew when, eh? Well, ni try it -- asking you, if you please, to remain here on guard." He turned away, hesitated and said solemnly: "You see, it is you who must take the post of danger. For if a pyropod should come from one of the other passages while I am gone..." He made a grave face, spread his hands politely and left. R yeland clung to a projection of rock and waited. Pyropod... He heard the word again, in the soft, apologetic, wheezy voice of Dr. Thrale. He was lying again on the therapy couch in the recreation center, clamped into the cold electrodes, helplessly enduring the merciless probing into his blank memory. He shuddered again, flinching from that pitiless pressure to make him reveal the secret he had never known -- Or had he really ever known how to build a jetless drive? That haunting fog of black oblivion and insane contradiction flowed into his brain. Through it, he heard the lazy malice of Angela's voice, mocking him with her explanation of the riddle. He was a junk man, a meat machine designed to sabotage the plan, without a memory because he lacked a past. A queer companion for the Planner's daughter. He resolved again not to tell her what he was. Now when they were alone, when he and Quiveras were the only human beings in her world, -- could she stand the shock of learning that even he was no real human being? He shook himself impatiently, as if mere motion might dispel! that paralyzing fog and reveal his true identity. That old riddle would have to wait -- perhaps until the timing mechanism detonated the collar, and answered it forever. The problems of the present were more urgent now. It was warm in the cavern, far from the surface of the little deformed globe, where the fusorian cells poured endless heat and light into the atmosphere. But he found himself shivering. Pyropod? Yes. He had heard the term. He did not want to recall just what he had heard about it. Quiveras disappeared, the needlesharp crystal blade giving a strange light. It disappeared around a bend in the passage, and then for a time there was no light at all. Time passed. It was dark... silent... empty. Ryeland felt as though the dead walls around him were closing in. He wiped slippery sweat from his palms, listening, reaching out, because he could not help himself, to touch the walls to make sure that they were not about to squeeze him... Then involuntarily he felt himself grinning. Claustrophobia -- Earth, a floating dust mote in the middle of absolute emptiness! The incongruity reassured him; and he was calm and cheerful when, at last, he saw the glow of light appear again in the passage Quiveras had taken. The crystal sword came into sight and Quiveras hailed him cheerfully. "A dead end, and nothing there. Very well. He drew even with Ryeland and gazed at the other passages. 'T think," he said, with some doubt, "that we will leave these others for now. They do not seem occupied, and it would take us weeks to explore them all. Consider yourself fortunate, my friend. You have not yet been introduced to a pyropod." A t Quiveras's hail the spacelings came swimming gracefully down the tunnel, their red noses blinking as they probed its depths with infrared. Donna Creery followed more slowly, exploring the caves with a child's wonder and awe. "Is it safe?" she asked. Quiveras said calmly, "We will never be safe while Ryeland's collar is with us. If you mean are we safe from pyropods, x do not know. From a full-grown one, yes. I do not guarantee there is not a cub lurking somewhere, but if there is we will find it out and meanwhile shall we not try to make this place into a home?" They worked for three hard days, while the spacelings fluttered and mewed restlessly -- because, Quiveras said without emotion, the Plan cruiser was still somewhere about. IF As there was nothing they could do about it, they did nothing. To their little world they did a great deal. They carried aerial fusorian vines into the caverns, choosing cubicles for sleeping, for eating, for rest, curtaining and cushioning them with the vines, bringing shining crystals of ruby and topaz for heat and illumination. Donna cried out at its beauty. Indeed it was beautiful; and they were not finished. With Quiveras for a teacher, Ryeland learned how to weave nets and ropes out of the fiber from the vines. The surface of the reef provided crystal and great branching arms of metal, pure copper, pure aluminum, pure silver. They hammered the metal into crude tools. And finally they made a sort of curtain, woven from the vines and crusted with broken pieces of crystal, which they stretched across the mouth of the cave to conceal it. Quiveras stood back and regarded it. "Well," he said doubtfully, "it could be thicker and it could look more natural and those gadgets of yours could be hidden in better places. But if the Plan cruiser sniffs around here, it might miss you, at that." "Miss us? What about you?" "I, Miss Creery, will go out to the main Reefs." Quiveras's gnarled face looked eager. "I'll get help, more spacelings. And I'll bring back Ron Donderevo!" Ryeland and the girl were sorry to see him go, but their sorrow was nothing compared to the unhappiness of the two spacelings at being separated. Adam would carry Quiveras; Chiquita would have to stay with them, to maintain their atmosphere and to be ready to carry them away in desperate flight if the Plan cruiser should grow too inquisitive. They watched him leave, all three of them, Ryeland, Donna Creery and the spaceling. He was gone out of sight in a moment. Ryeland thought he caught a single reddish wink from Adam's nose -- perhaps the male spaceling turning restlessly as it drove away, to bid a last farewell to Chiquita. Then there was nothing. They stared till their eyes watered, but it was useless. The Plan cruisei could be lurking a mere hundred miles away -- a thousand men on spacelings could be within ten miles. Without radar gear they were blind. Out there were only the stars. Ryeland's mind drifted out among those stars wonderingly. He tried to imagine the clouds of new hydrogen, constantly being born of the Hoyle effect, and the myraid drifting fusorians that built the hydrogen into heavier elements that might someday be planets. There were other Reefs out there, the first concentrations of matter like the one they occupied, the larger ones that provided a home for the exiles of the Plan -- great ones, even, that might in some remote millenium become the cores for first condensations of titanic new suns. They were all invisible. Donna Creery touched his arm. "It's -- lonely," she whispered. "Let's go back inside." "Inside our cave!" he said harshly. "Back to the stone age! Is this the sort of life that's fit for a princess of the Plan?" She shrank away from him, and m a moment went with the spaceling silently inside the sheltering drift of vines. Ryeland roamed about, trying to work off the sudden storm of anger and helplessness that was besieging him. He tried to calm himself. But calm was impossible to him. Calm, he knew, was a sensation he would not be likely to feel, until he had managed to rid himself of the choking, threatening thing about his neck -- and until he had managed to bridge that gap in his past, until he had escaped that dreadful, creeping cloud of forgetfulness and contradiction -- Or until the collar's explosion brought him the permanent calm of the grave. T ime passed. They both found plenty to do. Alone now, except for the spaceling, they were queerly constrained in each other's company. Ryeland hardly recognized the bright, sure brat of the bath, with the angry Peace Dove and the fighting guard within instant call. Donna was quieter and younger now. They spoke of her father, and for the first time Ryeland was able to think of that semi-legendary Olymiian figure as a human being. Donna was terribly worried about her father. "But we couldn't wait for him, Steven. Only -- I wish we had." He asked her again why the Planner had had to hide from the Machine, and got the same answer he had been given before. It was no answer. "I don't know, Steven, but he was worried. And it's your equations that are the key to it." And that, of course, drove Ryeland out to stare at the banked machines he had brought with him from the rocket, but all he could do was stare. They needed space and order, and on this little reefling there was neither. They lived like primitive islanders, catching the tiny flying things with nets made of vines, feasting on the shining fruits. Ryeland's mind was queasy at the thought of the radiation they were absorbing with every luscious bite, but his stomach was delighted. And, he thought, they were not the first to eat them and live. Perhaps the radiation was purely photonic; perhaps a sort of bioluminescence, like the green glow of a firefly. Ryeland asked the girl again how Fleemer and his allies had got the better of her father, and got the same answer he had been given before. It was no answer. "I don't know, Steve. Except that it is all about the jetless drive. Father told me that he approved the search for an interstellar drive as part of the original Plan, built into the Machine. When he first learned about the spacelings, from Donderevo, he knew that a reactionless drive was possible. He began to organize an effort to learn how to build it. Immediately, he ran into fanatical opposition from men like Fleemer. I don't know the reason for their opposition. It must have been someIF thing more than just the desire to grab Father's place. Somehow, they were able to manipulate the Machine. They have got it under their own control. But I still believe that we could rescue the Machine and Father and the Plan of Man -- if we knew the secret of the spacelings." That, of course, drove Ryeland to begin assembling and testing the computers he had brought from the rocket. But the crawling fog was thicker in his mind. He sat staring at the banked computers, but he could think of no approach more promising than those he had tried when he was still on Fleemer's team. He couldn't be sure that the failure of the team attack was altogether due to Fleemer's sabotage. Anyhow, he reflected, there wasn't much that he could do in his cave on this reeflet. Even if he had been given the blueprints for a perfected reactionless drive, he had no shop equipment. Hopelessly, he gave up the effort. D ays passed. Weeks passed. The spaceling roamed sadly around their little world, still worried. They could not tead its ways as Quiveras had, but its worry was plain. Was it the Plan cruiser, still skulking about? Or a nearer menace? They simply could not tell. Donna grew sulky and unhappy, until they had a brief, brittle quarrel of words one day and it exploded into weeping. She clung to him. "I'm sorry. It's just that I always had so much. Servants, clean clothes, cooked food. Power, too. And now -- " She smiled up at him. Qucerly, Ryeland thrust her away then. He was churned up inside with feelings he could neither analyze nor handle. It was his turn to .be sulky and irritable, because, though he did not know it, his inner self was becoming a battle ground -- the site of a struggle between his common sense, on one hand, and on the other a growing, potent love for the Planner's daughter... Even his dreams were haunted. He slept restlessly, and felt that he was choking... He was in his office, miles under the surface of the Earth in the hidden complex of airconditioned tunnels that held the Machine and its attendants. He heard the knocking on the locked door, and got up to open it for Angela. But it wasn't Angela. It was Donna Creery, whitesmocked like the nurses at the stockpile. She had brought the coffee and sandwiches on a plastic tray, but she screamed and threw them on the floor when she saw his face. "It's Donderevo!" she was screaming. "It was Ron Donderevo -- " He wanted to tell her who he was, but suddenly he was strapped to the therapy couch in the recreation center, with shocks of paralvzing agony stabbing from the electrodes on his body. She was coming toward him again, in the white smock with a stitched red heart on her perfect breast, reaching for him with a long hooked scalpel. "You might as well tell us now." She was wheezing at him with Dr. Thrale's apologetic, asthmatic voice. "Tell us how tOfcbuild a jetless drive." He wanted to tell her. The specifications were clear in his mind, amazingly simple; he couldn't understand why there had to be so much fuss about such a simple thing. But his voice was paralyzed with the the shocks that made waves of dazing pain from the collar around his neck. And Donna wouldn't let him talk. Now she wore a horned radar helmet. She was taunting him, with Fleemer's ugly voice. One touch, Ryeland. Only one little touch on the detonation button, and your precious secret will die with you! Now she had Angela's face. But she still had hands, like Donna. He saw her touch the deadly little button. The collar about his neck blossomed and swelled -- He awoke strangling. "I was dreaming!" He tugged frantically at the collar. No! It was no dream. The collar was there, and surely it was about to explode. His exacerbated imagination felt it pulsing against his rasped throat. He thought he heard a sound from it, a tick, a whine, a purring of faint unstoppable engines. "No!" he shouted and leaped up out of the little nest of leaves where he slept. It was exploding! Not in a year, not in a minute -- now. He flung himself wildly about in the no-gravity, shouting. Donna Creery came swiftly to him, and the terror in her face woke him, drowning his imaginary terrors. "What's the matter?" he demanded harshly. "Steven! It's Chiquita. She -- she IF was wandering about the lower passages, where we've never been, and -- " She stopped, unable to speak on. Behind her the spaceling came, slowly, painfully, mewing tragically. Chiquita's flank was a horror, raw flesh and golden ichor, with the mark of a great sharp claw. T here were four cartridges in the clip. Ryeland checked them, blessed Quiveras for having left the gun and started down the passages. He didn't say anything to Donna Creery; he didn't know what to say. Then there was a pyropod on their Reef... Ryeland's throat was raw and dry. Pyropods. "Flame-feet." Outer-space animals which, Ryeland thought, sounded vaguely like Earthly squids. Ryeland tried to picture one, and failed; but Quiveras had said there was a possibility that the caverns in their Reef might house one. And Chiquita's terrible wounds had converted that possibility into something far stronger. Ryeland paused at the end of the passages they had explored, and picked up . the discarded crystal sword Quiveras had left there. It was still bright; it was all the light he had. Then he drove into the first of the great convoluted burrows. In five minutes he was at an end; the tunnel narrowed sharply, so that he could hardly move, and poised bits of rubble showed that nothing of any size had passed that way in finite time. He went back again. Another tunnel, a much longer one this time, but again a dead end. It was difficult to maneuver; in no-gravity, he could not walk, and the shape and constriction of the tunnel made it hard to leap. He came to another branch and stopped. There were two tunnels, both enormous, both dark and soundless. The air was the air the spaceling had brought, but it had a sharp strange odor, like burning gunpowder. And one of the tunnels was scarred with the enormous claws that had left their sign near the surface. Ryeland plunged in without giving himself time to think. He came almost at once to a chamber. He paused and hung in its entrance, peering about in the faint light his crystal sword gave. It was roughly spherical, so vast that its farther walls were dim; and in a niche at one side of it was a clutter of tangled objects. Warily he approached. It seemed to be a sort of midden, and the blood began to pulse in his ears. It contained odd-shaped objects that might have resembled the bones and fangs and carapaces of animals like no animals that had ever lived on earth. He stood staring at it, every sense poised. Then, with infinite pain, he approached. There was no sound. There was no motion. Gently he poked the crystalline light into a gap in the tangle. But nothing moved and there was nothing revealed. Ryeland moved back and considered. Space had its own scale of time. The discarded bones and the clawmarks in the rock might look just as fresh after another hundred million years. Undoubtedly the cave had been abandoned. He turned. Something screamed behind him. He had only time to halt his turn, to start to move his head back. And the heap of bones exploded. Vhat kept Ryeland from dying at once was the tiny scope of the cavern, compared to the scale of interplanetary distances. The pyropod, rocket driven, enormously strong, hadn't the room to maneuver or even to build up speed. But it blasted up at him with frightening speed. It was huge -- as Earth animals go -- larger than a horse, and armored with mirror-bright scales. It had a solitary eye, a wide mirror on a stalked central organ. It had a single, enormous claw at the end of a writhing, flexible trunk. It roared like a rocket at takeoff -- which it was -- and the great heavy-metal claw snapped violently. But the trash in its way screened Ryeland for a moment; he was thrust back and out of the way, and the pyropod flew past to gouge great chips out of the wall of the cavern. Ryejand took quick aim and fired. Even in the roar of the pyropod's drive, he could hear his bullet scream away, and knew that it had hit that armor and ricocheted off The pyropod did not turn to strike toward him again; it turned away, in fact. and its thin bright tail whipped toward him. White fire jetted out furiously. The tail! The tail was a more fearsome weapon than the claw -- the mighty drive that could hurl it through space could char him in a second! But Ryeland was already moving, and the blast missed him entirely, though a backwash of flame from the wall caught his leg and (he discovered later) raised great angry blisters on his skin. Ryeland crashed into the wall, spun like a racing swimmer in a pool, raised the gun again and fired -- rapidly -- one, two, three! And then his cartridges were gone... But one of those bullets had struck a target. The stalk that held its eye was hit. The bulb exploded; the creature was blinded. It blundered about the chamber like a rocket gone mad, colliding with the walls, recoiling, plunging wildly again. The blazing jet licked perilously close -- And then the jet was screaming away, bouncing and roaring through the tunnel, out, out and away... Ryeland was hurt badly, burned, bleeding, aching in every muscle; and he had no breath left at all after that quick violent encounter. But he did not pause. He leaped to follow the pyropod, Donna was up there! He sailed through dark space, his crystal torch long since lost, tried to see through the utter dark, tried to shield his head from striking against the wall. It was good, now, that the tunnel was so narrow; there was really only one way to go. IF And after interminable moments there was light. He drove toward it, rounded a bend, and saw Donna Creery hurrying toward him -- alive! She bore a coiled branch of the vine with its moons of luminous fusorians. "Steven! Thank God!" She tossed a loop of the vine to him; he caught it, and they drew themselves together. R y e I a n d caught her roughly. "The pyropodi What became of it?" "Gone," said Donna Creery. "It went right by, out into space. Not having a nucleonic harpoon, I let it go. I think we've seen the last of it." "It was hiding in a pile of bones," said Ryeland, suddenly drained. "I -- I think I hit its eye." "Yes. At least, it acted blind. And -- oh, Steven!" He looked at her, not comprehending. Reaction? He tried to reassure her. "It won't be back, Donna. You said yourself -- " "No, no. It's Chiquita, Steven. I think she's dying." He nodded, hardly hearing. "Poor thing. Well, we've avenged her, I guess" "And what about avenging ourselves? Have you forgotten, Steve -- if Chiquita dies, there's nothing to hold our air!" T he spaceling lay motionless in a little cave lined with vines. Now and then she struggled restlessly -- not to move, but to bring fresh air about her. She seemed both bloated and gaunt And the great wounds along her side were now crusted with dirty ocher scabs. "Poor Chiquita," the girl whispered, stroking the soft fur. Donna crooned at the creature, and its great dull eyes fastened on her. Ryeland looked the spaceling over. Her belly was swollen angrily, but the flesh had shrunk from the rest of her body. Her fur was lusterless and unkempt. The flame-red it was cold, black, dry. He touched her: hot. Did she hav a fever? Ryeland could not know, but surely she was hotter than when he had clung to her neck, fleeing the body bank. The spaceling seemed tc know that he was trying to help. She licked her black tongue out at him feebly; it was all the effort she could make. Ryeland said reluctantly, "I don't think there's anything we can do for her." "The light seems to bother her." "All right. That much we can do." But it wasn't easy, in this little world of luminous crystal and vine. They found some growths that glowed only faintly and tugged them into place, thicker and thicker, until the little nook where Chiquita lay became a dim green hiding-hole. Chiquita looked faintly grateful, but mostly she looked sick. They left her and went out to the surface to look at the stars. It was maddening, it was utterly maddening, to be so helpless! Ryeland clung to the edge of the tunnel, staring out toward emptiness. Somewhere out there, invisible but sure, lay the other Reefs The great outer Reefs where fugitive humans managed lives that were free of the Plan -- where, above all, lived Ron DonderIF evo, the native spaceman who had been a student of the science of the Plan, a guest and a prisoner of the Planner. He had worn the iron collar of a Risk -- the selfsame collar that choked Ryeland now, if Angela had told the truth. He had talked to the Planner about a jetless drive, had been consigned to the stockpile, had ridden Chiquita back to the Reefs. But -- was he superhuman? Could he remove Ryeland's collar -- here in the reefs, without all the elaborate surgical facilities that had been available at the stockpile? Could he fill the gap in Ryeland's tormented memory -- or was there really any gap to fill, except the time before the dissected scraps of a hundred salvaged enemies of the Plan had been assembled to make a thinking thing without a past? By now Quiveras might have reached him. By now they might be on their way! Perhaps in a few days Quiveras and the stranger would come to the little Reef and look for Ryeland and the girl. By now Quiveras might have reached him. By now they might be on their way! Perhaps in a few days Quiveras and the stranger would come to the little Reef and look for Ryeland and the girl. And what would they find? Ryeland knew that the most probable answer was... death. T ime passed, and the spaceling stayed alive. But she was wealcer and worse every day. The Reef became a dream to Ryeland. He lost all sense of time. He had no watch and there were no celestial objects to mark days or years very conveniently. He thought of a calendar, and tried to construct one. The sun was bright enough to be visible, but the trouble was that their little Reef had no perceptible rotation. No force from another bbject had ever set it spinning, perhaps; the same stars hung always over the tunnel mouth. It could tell them nothing of time. Painfully Ryeland located winking Algol and began a star-watch; its period would be his clock. Donna said gently: 'Tt won't help. You don't know when the collar will go off." And he realized that she had seen farther into his mind than he himself. It was the ticking year that he was trying to measure, the year which was in any event his maximum hope of life as long as that collar sat sullenly about his neck. Chiquita might not die, the Plan cruiser might not return, but his assassin was with him at every moment. At one of those moments it would strike. That was the ultimate deadly promise of the iron collar. You could flee the radar guns of the Plan Police and even outrun their cruisers. You could in the Reefs of Space perhaps even avoid the wash of pulsed radar which the Machine would flood through the system. But the timing element would not be stopped and would not be merciful. In less than a year it would go off... And Ryeland's guess, based on Algol's cycle and a careful recollection of how they had slept and eaten. was that no less than six months had already passed. Chiquita was now terribly sick. The great claw-gashes had begun to heal, but her fever was high. She seemed thirsty, but she would not drink; she seemed in pain, but she hardly moved. Only a low whimpering mew came from the little bower they had made for her. Ryeland made a decision and went out onto the shell of their Reef to put it into practice. It was only a matter of moments before Donna followed. 'What are you doing?" she demanded sharply. He stopped, caught working over the equipment the spacelings had transported from the ship for him -- the equipment that he had not used and now was proposing to put to a use completely unconnected with his original intention. He said, "How's Chiquita?" But she would not be diverted. What are you doing?" Ryeland said, "Rigging up a radio. I've got all the parts. I -- I thought I might be able to reach Quiveras and ask him to hurry -- " "Or maybe you thought you might reach that Plan cruiser?" Ryeland said strongly: "All right. Why not? Maybe we pushed our luck too far! Things weren't so bad back in the B -- back on Earth, I mean. The Plan of Man is reasonable. They'll take us back if I surrender, and even at worst, it can't be worse than waiting here to die." "Steven!" She reached up to stare into his eyes. "I won't have you going back!" "Who the devil," he yelled in a cold counterfeit of rage, "do you think you're ordering -- " But she stopped his lips. "Don't say it," she whispered. "I won't let you. And anyway, I'm afraid it's too late." It took him a second to react. "Chiquita!" He raced far ahead of her down to the dying spaceling. Chiquita had sunk into a sort of coma, motionless, barely breathing. Her belly was more and more misshapen, as with terminal malnutrition -- or whatever might correspond to it in the structure of a creature from space -- and the rest of her body as wasted as the gaunt, starved babies of Oriental famines of old times. Ryeland reached out a hand to her -- And drew it back! It was too late; it was all over. The spaceling had stopped breathing entirely. Absently Ryeland brushed the dull fur on her cooling neck. Dead, yes. No matter what secrets her alien metabolism held, there was no doubt that life had gone. And now... how long would the field that contained their air persist? Ryeland had no idea. In a firefly, he remembered, the bioluminescence lingered for hours after death. Was this a related effect? Probably not. The strange force that drove the spaceling was something far removed from a mere greenish glow. It might last for a few minutes. It might -- at any split second it might -- disappear, and kill them instantly in a soundless explosion of released air. IF Donna said softly, "Steven. Let's go outside where we can see the stars." T he Reef was a small hollowed planet, wheeling slowly now, perhaps because of some dying convulsion from Chiquita. From the mouth of the cave the whole stardusted splendor of the heavens was revealed. The sun itself, yellow and distant, came up through tangled vines to look at them, like the headlight of a far-off locomotive. "The sun," whispered Ryeland "Still the brightest star. We haven't come so far." They looked out at the mighty constellations, strange in their powdery mask of lesser stars but still identifiable -- mighty Orion, the misty cluster of the Pleiades, the vast silvery sweep of the galaxy. There it was, thought Ryeland soberly, the terrible, wonderful new empire that they had hoped to help claim for Man. And they had failed. It was very strange and wonderful, but he felt almost at peace. They were still alive. It was a fact that brought with it a sense of unbounded wealth. As everything had been lost with the death of the spaceling, now each tiny moment that they were somehow spared was a treasure. Each second was a joy. Ryeland anchored himself to a ledge of space coral, all silver and ruby, with Donna very light in his arms. They talked, not consecutively. There were things each had to say. The one central fact -- the fact that they were clinging to life by only the feeblest of grips -- they did not mention. Donna said: "Father's probably still on Earth. He can't have got my message. He'd have followed if he did. He's a busy, a driving man, Steven, and I used to hate him, but -- Oh, Steven! Now I am only sorry for him. Ryeland said: "You wouldn't remember. You were bathing, and I blundered in. I was embarrassed. I guess you were, too. No, you probably weren't. And you had the Peace Dove. It nearly killed -- what was his name? Oporto." Cloudily it struck him as odd: he had almost forgotten the man who had been the nearest thing he had to a friend. Donna said: "That was Father's idea, the Peace Dove. If you hate black... call it white, and love it. So he took that murdering thing and called it 'Peace'. He always boasted: 'The Planner is the first ruler in all Earth's history who has never needed a bodyguard.' But what would you call those things? My Peace Doves. His Hawks." Ryeland said, with a sudden rush of amazement: "Donna! We're still alive!" T hey looked at each other in wonderment, for sure enough, it was true. They had not died of airstrangulation. Around them their little world was still intact. "But surely the spaceling was dead!" Donna cried. "No Joubt of that. I don't understand this." They looked around anxiously. The stars blazed down on them, and that was all there was to be seen beyond the confines of the tiny air bubble that made their world. "Look!" cried Ryeland. "Something's happening." At the edge of the reeflet, suddenly, like a vanishing ghost... puff! There was a soundless explosion of faint, misty fog. And a colony of flying fish, a lacy pattern of vines, a clump of blossoms with liquid gold in their cups -- they fluttered, shook, flung madly away; and then that corner, too, was still; but it was dead. The shape of the bubble had changed. One corner of their little world had lost its air -- poof! -- like the winking of an eye. For one eternal moment Ryeland thought that this was what they had been waiting for. The spaceling, Chiquita, had died at last; the strange forces that allowed her to hold air about her, and them, had loosened their grasp, and they were faee to face with death. Donna, who felt the abrupt clutch of fear, clung to him tightly. But Ryeland whispered thoughtfully, "It isn't right, Donna. Something's happening, but not what we expected at .all. If the field went, it should go all at once." "But what could it be, then, Steven?" "Let's go see!" Like biped spacelings themselves, they turned and dove into the cavern. Quickly, quickly. Crazed, confused thoughts floated through Ryeland's mind: Their dying little world... all worlds, dying... all the planets of the sun, doomed to death, doomed because Ryeland had failed to give them inertialess travel in time... doomed to die without giving seed to space. They stopped, clutching at palely glowing vines. In the very green darkness Chiquita lay. She was surely dead. There was no possibility of a mistake. But beside her -- Beside her something moved! Beside that shrunken, lifeless skin, something quivered, curled and lifted. It came frolicking toward them, flying -- something small, smaller even than Donna, a mere doll beside the dead Chiquita, racked and shrunken though she was. It was a spaceling! A baby spaceling! Its red nose winked swiftly; it looked at them with bright, friendly eyes. "Oh, you darling!" cried Donna, holding out her arms to it, and it licked at her face with a slim, quick, black tongue. "Look there!" croaked Ryeland, astonished beyond words, pointing. There was another tiny, seal-like creature... and a third, and a fourth, and -- there seemed to be a dozen of them, frolicking and darting with their tiny noses blinking comically, pink light and orange, red and almost purple. Ryeland said softly: "Chiquita may be dead, but her children are not." There were eight of them in all, as well as they could count their quicksilver, gamboling shapes. Eight baby spacelings, frolicking like pups. Had they been born after the death of the mother, in some reproductive mystery of the spacelings' Had they been born before, and wandered off? Ryeland could not know. He only knew that they were here. "Thank heaven," whispered Donna, as Ryeland carried one out into the light to see it. "Thank Something," murmured Ryeland. "Look, Donna. They're just like adult spacelings, but tiny. Born fully formed -- obviously, they are able to maintain a field, able to use the jetless drivel Fortunately for us. Though," he said remembering the lost corner of their paradise, "I think they could stand a little more practice." He stopped, looking up, jaw hanging. Out there somewhere past the air curtain, something moved and winked. "The Plan rocket!" cried Donna in terror. "No! No," shouted Ryeland, leaping up. "Don't you see? It's too small too close. It's a spaceling! Quiveras has come back, and -- look! There's someone else. He has brought Donderevo back with him!" D onderevo! Six feet eight inches tall, a dark-faced man with blue eyes that blazed. His spaceling brought him daintily into the air bubble of their little haven, and Ron Donderevo sprang free. "Donna!" he cried, and caught her hand. Joyously Donna threw her arms about him, pressing her face against his bronzed cheek. When she drew free, she said: "Ron, this is Steve Ryeland." "I remember," Ryeland whispered breathlessly. "When I was a Technicub, about eight years old. And you were a medical student from space, wearing a collar because your people hadn't accepted the Plan -- " Chuckling, the huge man gripped his hand. Ron Donderevo's fringed leather jacket was open at the throat. His neck was a brown muscular column. A thin scar circled it, but he wore no collar. "And I remember you," Donderevo rumbled. "I admired your father. A philosopher and a historian, as well as a mathematician. He's the scholar who helped me understand the real meaning of the space frontier." "Your collar?" Ryeland interrupted him. "You really got out of it?" "Out of the collar, and out of the place they call Heaven." Donderevo nodded solemnly. "I was luckier than your father." "I was never told what became of him." R yeland caught his breath to ask another question, but the sudden iron constriction of his own collar stopped him. He wanted to know how Donderevo had got away, but he was afraid to know the answer. He was afraid that Donderevo would confirm the strange story of Angela Zwick -- that Ryeland was the imitation man that the anti-Plan surgeons had assembled in Donderevo's collar, to cover his escape. "Ron?" Donna's voice was quick and quivering with concern. "Can you get Steve out of his collar?" "Not quite the way I was taken out of mine." Ron Donderevo shook his shagged, craggy head. "Mine was removed in the surgical center at the stockpile where I had been sent for salvage. Half a dozen surgeons helped, using the best equipment -- " "What was done with your collar?" Ryeland interrupted. "I promised not to tell," Donderevo said. "Was a patch -- ?" Ryeland had to gulp and start again. "Was a patchwork man assembled in it? A kind of living dummy to take your place until the spaceling could carry you away?" "Right." The big man nodded casually. "I don't suppose it matters to anybody now." It mattered very much to Ryeland. His flesh turned numb and cold... as it must have been before it was sutured and cemented back into the likeness of a man. His knees felt weak. "What's wrong, Steve?" Donna asked. "You look so pale!" He couldn't tell her that he was that decoy, that patchwork of junk meat. "I was hoping you could take my collar off," he told Donderevo. That was a matter desperate enough to account for his agitation. "If you learned medicine on Earth, can't you -- can't you possibly do the operation?" Donderevo started to shake his head, and suddenly looked hard at Ryeland's face. He glanced at Donna, and peered again at Ryeland. His own face twitched and stiffened, gray beneath the bronze. "I suppose I could try," he admitted reluctantly. "Of course you understand that I lack the experience and the fine equipment those surgeons had. Operating here, with only a portable surgery, without trained assistants, I can promise you one chance in four that you'll survive the operation -- one chance in five that you'll walk again, even if you do survive." Ryeland fell dizzily back against a great crystal branch. Twittering iridescent bird-fish, jarred loose, swam tinkling away. "And yet," rumbled Donderevo compassionately, "you are right, Steve, for you have no chance otherwise. The Plan can kill you in ten seconds, as easy as that. The rocket Push a button -- poof! -- your code impulse is transmitted -- you're dead. And so am I," he said earnestly, "and poor Quiveras here, and Donna. So you are right, for you see, Steven, we must save you somehow or you may kill us all." "Describe it to me," said Ryeland emptily. "Tell me what it entails. Exactly." D onderevo hesitated, and then began. Ron Donderevo, that huge man, his hands soft as a maiden's, his voice deep as a tiger's growl; Ron Donderevo had performed many an operation for the Plan. But on Earth, in the Body Bank, he said with meticulous care, there were things that could not be dupIF Heated here. There were nurses and surgeons beyond counting. (Here was only young Donna and old Quiveras, neither of them trained.) There was equipment by the warehousefuH. Here was only what had been packed in on the back of spacelings. Enough, yes -- if nothing went wrong. But there were no extras. If a blood pump should fail, there was no other. There in the Body Bank was the unmatched reservoir of human parts that constituted a reserve against spoilage. And here were only the four of them, and no more parts than they needed to go around. The first step, he said, would be to create an atmosphere of asepsis around the anesthetized Ryeland. Easy enough, particularly in the negligible gravity of the spaceling's bubble, and particularly where the only ambient germs were those the four of them had brought in. A soft hissing from a yellowish metal tube Donderevo had brought -- he demonstrated it -- accounted for a polyantibiotic spray. Then -- scalpels, retractors, sutures, clamps. Sterile and inherently inhospitable to microscopic life, they came out of the gleaming containers at Donderevo's orders. Donna was whitefaced but steady as she listened and looked at the instruments. She shrank away as he described how the first scalpel would trace a thin red line around Ryeland's neck, just under the collar; but then she was all right. The epidermis and dermis would have to be slit and pulled back, like a stocking from a leg. Red flesh and white muscle would swiftly be cut and retracted. The great trapezius muscles would have to be cut, caught and held -- it was important that muscles be kept under tension. The small blood vessels of the neck needed to be tied off; ,the large ones -- the carotids, the jugular the vertebral blood supply -- were to be cut and quickly clamped to the plastic tubes of a double-chambered mechanical heart -- not because Ryeland's own heart was out of circuit, yet, but because there was blood loss, Qonstantly, from every vessel and uncountable capillary, from the disturbed cells themselves. Extra reserves of blood were needed and held in the mechanical heart's chambers, for a man's own heart was not equal to the task. Then the nerves, carefully dissected out and clamped to the wondrous organic silver leads that alone had made major replacement of parts possible. Nervous tissue does not readily regenerate in the higher vertebrates -- not without help. Organic silver is the solder that holds the parts together; organic silver in the form of braided wire strands is the "connection" that permits the extension of a nerve, so that performance is not lost during surgery. As the cervical ganglia were cut, great sections of Ryeland's body would convulse quiveringly. Then the bones. Sonic saws to slice into the third cervical vertebra. The spinal cord -- opened, sealed, tied. The fluid dammed inside its chamber -- "That's enough," interrupted Ryeland, his face frozen into a mask. "I get the picture. I don't need any more." His eyes sought Donna's, and lie tried to speak to her... but could not. "Go ahead," he said. "Operate!" He stepped forward, swung himself onto the operating cradle and lay patiently while Donderevo and Quiveras strapped him in. Then Donderevo nodded and Donna moved forward, her face trembling on the verge of repressed tears, in her hand the soft flexible mask that sealed his lips and plugged his nostrils. He moved his head aside quickly. "Good-by, my dearest," he whispered. "For a while." Then he allowed her to fit the mask. Crashing, crashing, the crystal trees swam down on him. The little reeflet folded into a bud, with himself in the heart of it like the pure liquid gold in the cup of one of its strange flowers... And he was unconscious. H e was unconscious. But his mind was racing on. He was dreaming. He was remembering. The haunting fog came swirling up out of the past. It had followed him all the way from Earth. It was all around him now. cold and silent and clinging It covered Donna and Ron Donderevo. and distorted them Everything changed, twisted into hopeless contradiction. He was no longer in the portable surgery. Now the straps that held him were those of the therapy couch in the recreation center. The people over him were Dr. Thrale and General Fleemer. "Tell us, Ryeland," Thrale's soft insistent voice was wheezing. "We know about the knocking on the door, after the teletype girl left your office to bring sandwiches and coffee. We know you left the papers on your desk and went to open the door. Tell us who came in." Suddenly, he knew. Somehow, the anesthetic had cleared away that clinging fog. It wasn't Angela Zwick! It wasn't even the Plan Police -- they really hadn't come until the following Monday. It was a thin man in a blood-spotted fatigue uniform, bent under the bulging weight of a soiled space bag. "Horrocks -- " "Shhh!" Ryeland let him into the room and locked the door again. Horrocks dropped the space bag and stood leaning on the desk. He was panting heavily. Droplets of red foam sprayed out of his mouth and spattered over the sheafs of yellow teletape on the desk. "You're hurt," Ryeland said. "Let me get a doctor." "That can wait," Dan Horrocks gasped. "I've got a message for you -- that's got more priority. From an old -- friend of yours." Ryeland helped him into a chair and listened to the message. It came in gasped words that were sometimes incoherent. The old friend was Ron Donderevo. Horrocks had met him at a tiny colony on an unchartside the Plan, when Colonel Lescure's ship had stopped there to pick up reaction mass The message itself took a long IF time for the stricken man to deliver, and longer still for Ry eland to grasp. It began with the existence of the Reefs of Space and the fusorian life that had built them. The point of it was the way the spacelings flew. "Donderevo wants you to know space isn't dead," Horrocks panted hoarsely. "A living frontier -- alive and infinite. Rockets can't -- can't reach it usefully. We've got to have -- propulsion -- with no reaction mass." In the dream he tried to tell the wounded man that any sort of jetless drive was forbidden by the Third Law of Motion. "Wrong -- " the wounded man interrupted him. "Spacelings -- fly! Donderevo said -- tell you that. All you need to know. Except the fact -- your father taught him. The historic effect -- effect of the free front -- " Horrocks coughed, spraying Ryeland with flecks of red. "Sorry!" he gasped. "Mean frontier. Closed frontier -- closed society. That's the Plan." He paused to cough again, turning painfully away from Ryeland. "Open frontier -- that's the reefs. Freedom. Forever!"  Ryeland needed time to understand that agonized summary of a fundamental fact, but later, when he began to grasp it, he thought he knew what had happened to his father. The Plan existed to regiment the closed society that had spread to the last frontier that rockets could reach. His father had seen the infinite promise of the new frontier of interstellar space -- but even a dream of that open frontier was treason to the closed world of the Plan. "Donderevo knows Planner -- Creery," Horrocks finished faintly. "Thinks we can trust -- trust him to understand -- that man is .more -- important than the Plan. If we can show him a working drive. But he says -- he says trust -- nobody -- nobody else." E ven after his message was delivered, Horrocks didn't want a doctor. He let Ryeland give him a eubiotic emergency shot from the survival kit that he had stolen from the Cristobal Colon, and hid in the rest room across the corridor before Angela Zwick came back with the sandwiches and coffee. By the time Ryeland had got rid of her, Horrocks was gone. The message was unbelievable -- but Horrocks had left the red-spattered space bag. Ryeland dumped it on his desk, and shivered with wonder. There was a great, glowing octahedral crystal of carbon coral. There were dazzling stereos of reefs and pyropods and spacelings. There was a notebook of Ron Donderevo's observations, proving that the spacelings really flew without reaction. Forced to believe, Ryeland's mind reacted. As Donderevo had told Horrocks to tell him, all he needed to know was the fact that the spacelings flew. With that simple datum actually accepted, the rest was obvious. As a mathematician, he knew that equations had to balance. As a physicist, however, he had learned that the balancing quantity might be physically elusive. The neutrino, required to balance the equations of a nuclear reaction, was one such example. In his own equations of mass-creation and space-expansion, which described the Hoyle effect, the new mass equalled x -- an unknown quantity, more elusive than even the neutrino, which he had failed to identify in nature. B...t now he saw it. Printed in the simple fact of the spaceling's flight, it was plain as the fact that two plus two is four. The unknown quantity which equalled the new mass in his equations was at last identified. It was momentum! The momentum of the expanding universe, which ultimately pushed the receeding galaxies beyond the velocity of light! With a professional satisfaction, he noted that the Third Law of Motion had not been violated. It had simply been transformed. The kinetic energy of the flying spaceling was balanced by a precisely equivalent energy of new mass. The reaction was governed by the classical equation of energy and mass, E mc#. The enormous last factor, the squared velocity of light, meant that a tiny mass was the equivalent of enormous kinetic energy. That was what had made his x so hard to identity. On its longest jetless flight, a spaceling would add only an imperceptible breath of new hydrogen to the cloud of atoms that its own motion had created. L ocked alone in his office. Ryeland went to work. A surging elation had swept away all his fatigue, and even the fear that Horrocks had brought. That single substitution of momentum for the unknown quantity in his own cosmological equations had given him the theory. A simple transformation described the field conditions required for the creation of new mass and the equivalent momentum. The problems of material and design were more troublesome, but by Sunday noon he had set up the complete specifications for a reactionless propulsion system with an effective Suddenly hungry and groggy, he stumbled across the hushed dimness of the tunnel to wash his face in the laboratory that had not been scrubbed since Horrocks had sprayed the basin with blood. He ate the last dry beef algae sandwich, and the last bitter drops of cold yeast coffee and went to sleep in his chair, wondering dully how to go about reaching Planner Creery without trusting anybody else. He woke early Monday morning with a stiff neck and the fading recollection of a nightmare in which he had been running with Horrocks from the Plan Police. He hid the space bag behind a filing cabinet, stuffed the blood-sprayed teletapes into the incinerator, and packed his specifications and the stereos in his briefcase. Two hours before the time for Angela and Oporto to come, he hurried away, into the maze of graywalled tunnels that housed all the linked computers of the Planning Machine and the working quarters of the Planner's staff. IF Trust nobody... The tunnels were dim and empty. Cool air roared here and there from the ducts. The Monday morning white-collar rush hadn't begun, but now and then he met a maintenance man in gray coveralls. It was strange to think of the solid miles of Earth above, when he had the key to the stars in his hands. Though he had never been to the Planner's office, he knew the way. Outside the automatic elevator, a guard looked at him sharply and waved him on past the warning He was not a Risk. He wore no security collar. Outside the Planner's suite, another guard studied his badge and tapped the number into a teletype. Waiting for the Machine to answer, Ryeland held his breath. But the guard looked up from the clattering machine, with a reluctant respect easing his official frown. "Go in, sir." A teletype girl in the waiting room wanted to know his business. He informed her that he had a confidential report for Planner Creery. She wanted to know the nature of it. When he insisted that it was too confidential for any ears except the Planner's, she made an appointment for him to see an executive associate. The executive associate was a huge, blue-faced frog of a man. A polished wood slab on his desk was impressively lettered: General Rudolph Fleemer. His bulging eyes were sharp, with a quick curiosity about Ryeland's confidential report. Unfortunately, Planner Creery had not returned from a weekend cruise with his family. He would doubtless be in his office later in the week, but even then pressure of accumulated work would be extreme. Although Planner Creery was well aware that Ryeland's distinguished achievements in helical field engineering had been useful to the Plan, the extent of his duties forced him to delegate most responsibilities to subordinates. General Fleemer implied that people who refused to trust the Planner's associates were seldom able to see the Planner himself. Reluctantly, when he saw that he could do no better, Ryelands left a message stating that his business involved Ron Donderevo and a new space propulsion system. General Fleemer promised sullenly to signal him later in the week, if Planner Creery chose to see him. Noon had passed before Ryeland got back to office. If Oporto and the teletype girl had come to work, he saw no sign of them. The bloodspattered space bag was still in place behind the filing cabinet, and a long yellow strip of teletape from the untended machine was piling up on the floor. He locked the office door and looked around for a place to hide his specifications for the jetless drive. There was no space behind his reference books. The gap between the filing cabinet and the wall was already dangerously conspicuous. His desk had no drawers. In fact, he reflected, there was no room in the Plan for personal secrets or private documents. He found no hiding place -- none better than his memory. He was dropping the specifications into the incinerator slot, when he heard the loud impatient knocking on his door... A gain in the dream he was an buried recreation center. The suites on both sides of him were occupied by disloyal surgeons who had been trapped in some plot against the Plan. The therapy room down the tunnel held the unplanned thing that they had assembled from scraps of waste tissue, which raved insanely in its straps and bandages while it was alive. Then the surgeons were gone. There was only Horrocks, in the next suite, and Oporto in the one across the corridor. He was seldom aware even of them, because the stewards kept him most of the time in the therapy room where the junk man had died. He was strapped to the couch, with the iron collar on his neck and electrodes clamped to his shivering flesh. Merciless light blazed down on his face. The white-smocked fat therapist stood over him, wheezing questions in a soft apologetic voice. What was the message that Horrocks had brought him from Ron Donderevo? Where were fusorians and pyropods and spacelings? What was the way to build a jetless drive? At first he could have answered, but a burning shock from the collar IF paralyzed his voice whenever he tried to speak. Even when he was trust anybody with what he knew, they wouldn't let him say a word. They gave him no chance to understand, left him no will even to dream of escape. Donderevo? Reefs of space? Jetless drive? The soft insistent voice and the agony went on, until all his past was lost in a fog of pain and insane contradiction. Even when the collar didn't shock him, he didn't try to speak. He didn't even try to think of the answer. His mind had been erased. XX R yeland awoke, blinking against a glare of light and found a man in white bending over him. It took him a long time to understand that it was not Dr. Thrale, but Donderevo; longer still to realize that the crystal glint and glowing color of the cave was right and natural, so sure he had been that he would find himself in the aseptic white of the therapy room. He was in the opetating cradle. The straps on his body had been loosened. Things began to click into place. There was Donderevo, yes, and the girl with her back to him undoubtedly was Donna Creery, and the other figure -- He sat up involuntarily, eyes wide. For the third figure in the room was not Quiveras. It was a Technicorps officer, watching him with the calculation of a poised cobra. With a sudden spasm of desperate hope and fear Ryeland's hands came up to his neck. They touched the familiar hard curve of the collar. He still wore it. He was still a Risk, his "e hanging on the whim of every guard with a radar pistol or on the flipover of a relay in the distant synapses of the Machine. "What -- " For a moment his voice was paralyzed, still half in the dream, remembering the violence of the shocks that had conditioned him not to speak the truths he knew. But he fought to get words out: "What went wrong?" Donderevo said compassionately, "We were too late. Before we had more than started the spacelings let us know the Plan cruiser was nearby. It breached the bubble around this reeflet. We sewed you up, and now we are all back in the Plan of Man." Unconsciously his hand touched the scar on his own throat. "I'm sorry about your collar. Ryeland," he said, "but if I'm not mistaken it will be no long time before I'm once more wearing one of my own." The nurse turned, and Ryeland had his third shock. For it was not Donna. "Where is she?" he demanded. "Safe," rumbled Donderevo. "Or as safe as any one under the Plan. Her father was in the cruiser. She's with him now." "May I -- " Ryeland had to stop and gulp, because a memory of agony had paralyzed his throat. "May I see them?" "I'll tell them you're awake," m Donderevo said. He moved toward the doorway, and turned back with a hesitant expression. "I had better warn you that you can't expect much help from Creery. You see, he's not the Planner any longer. In fact, he's wearing a collar of his own." R yeland was sitting on the edge of the portable cradle with a sheet wrapped around him, when Donna brought her father into that crystal-lighted cave of space. Though the former Planner was smiling tenderly at his daughter, his face looked pinched and gray. He wore the thin denim of a Risk. The chrome-steel collar shimmered with reflected crystal glints. Two officious men followed Creery. One was a stocky Technicorps colonel, who looked bleakly Satanic with his radar horns. The other was a communications sergeant, with a gray-cased portable teleset slung to his body. Donna nervously repeated what Donderevo had already told Ryeland about her father's arrival. "I was hoping," she finished wistfully, "that Father could unlock your collar." "Not even my own." Creery's stiff smile faded. "You can see that things have changed Our old friend General Fleemer is acting Planner now. I have been reclassified, and assigned to this hazardous special mission." He glanced uncomfortably back at the colonel. Donna's face twitched. She whispered, "What's your special mission, Father?" "It is concerned with the Plan of Man," he said. "You see, since the Machine had been reliably informed of the limitless extent of the Reefs of Space, it has been projecting a new phase of the Plan. In this second phase, the abundant resources of the space frontier will end any need for the strict regimentation of the original Plan. Unfortunately, this second phase cannot begin until the new frontier is actually open to the masses of mankind. Obviously, that requires a reactionless space drive." The former Planner paused. His haggard eyes looked sharply at Donderevo, regretfully at Ryeland, blankly at the Technicorps colonel. "General Fleemer managed to convince the Machine that I was no longer competent," he "said. "I suppose you know about the numerous failures of the helical field equipment that you had designed." His dull stare came back to Ryeland. "Fleemer laid all those disasters at my feet. As a result of such apparent executive errors, I was replaced. "I insisted on one last chance to find a reactionless drive. I had enough power left so that Fleemer was unable to block the assignment. That's my mission now. I saw the spacelings that came out to meet the cruiser. I must learn how they fly!" His voice was hopeless. "If Ryeland couldn't find the answer," Donderevo said, "I doubt that it exists." "But -- I found it!" T he collar was very tight. For a moment Ryeland's throat was paralyzed again. The old fog of agony and contradiction thickened in his mind. He looked at the man and at Donna. Her smile was sunshine, clearing the fog. He remembered. He could speak. He explained his theory of the equivalence of momentum and new mass, which related the flight of the spacelings to the expansion of the universe. He recited the specifications that he had memorized before the Plan Police burst into his office on that lost Monday. The colonel watched, a skeptical Satan, while they discussed the design and dictated the specifications to the sergeant at the portable teleset. They waited, while the message was digested by the special section of the Planning Machine aboard the cruiser. Time passed -- while slow radio pulsed the message to Earth. Ryeland looked at Donna Creery's anxious face -- and remembered the bandaged patchwork man who had raved and died in the therapy room down the tunnel from his suite in the recreation center. Then he himself was not the junk man! That part of Angela's story had been a malicious lie! The teleset clattered. Ryeland crowded with the former Planner and Donderevo and the girl to read the tape. Officiously, the colonel waved them back. He peered at the tape, and reached to finger the buttons of his radar gear. But his expression changed. T knew it, Mr. Planner." His voice was suddenly smoothly affable. 'T knew that Fleemer was nothing better than a conniving traitor, who will certainly get his comeuppance now! Any man with a spark of wit knew that jetless flight had to come." Grinning, he offered his hand to Creery. 'T want to be the first to congratulate you, Mr. Planner. Andyou, too, Mr. Ryeland. The special section of the Planning Machine in the cruiser has completed its preliminary evaluation of your invention. 'Tt has relayed a message to the master complex of the Machine on Earth, alerting it to prepare the Plan of Man for transition to the second phase, in which the freedom of the space frontier will render our present strict security controls both impossible and unnecessary. "As a first step toward the effectuation of that second phase, it is propagating a radar pulse -- " Ryeland heard a click at his throat. His collar snapped open. As if moved by the same pulse, the girl stepped forward and into his arms. Together they moved out of the cave into the faerie shimmer of the reeflet. To one side hung the great gray mass of the Plan cruiser, no longer an enemy. Beyond lay the stars. Tte stars. The limitless frontier for mankind -- the space between suns, where hydrogen is constantly born to make new worlds, as freedom is constantly born in the hearts of men. whispered Ryeland. And the girl said firmly: "Our IF  Novelette A Loot beyond avarice, raw materials past courting -- there had to be a catch! I A Aylward of Copernicus Observatory," said Angus. Up td that point, Captain Martinu had seriously been considering leaving the party. The band was much too loud. The dancing was far too energetic for someone like himself, who was used to long periods of free fall that wasted the muscles. And the promise of interesting people to talk to, with which Angus had persuaded him to come along, had not been fulfilled. Now, though, he felt a sudden stir of interest as he shook the hand of the short, bespectacled, balding scientist. He said, "You mean you're the Aylward they named the Aylward Field after?" "Er -- " Aylward looked uncomfortable. "Well, as a matter of fact, yes, I am." "As a result of which," Angus said, IF 'I owe you my life, among other things." He ran his hand through his shock of coarse black hair, which stuck up from his head, in the currently fashionable Fijian style, like a chimney-sweep's brush. Martinu said, "And I owe you a up a buster with your field in the old Castor, when I was a junior engine tech." Rather diffidently, Aylward eyed the other's immaculate uniform. "And stayed on in the space service? he said. "Isn't that unusual?" "Oh, unique!" Martinu agreed with a trace of pride. "I'm the only man in the service who's picked up a buster and not immediately bought himself out of a career job. I say, is there anything I can do for you?" Aylward seemed to be in some distress, his breathing deep and stertorous, his shoulders hunching forward. He said, "You can help me to a chair, if you will. I've been on Luna for the past seventeen years. Full gravity makes me terribly tired." Martinu hastily took the professor's arm. He was in top physical condition -- had to be -- but even so he was quickly exhausted by a couple of hours on his feet, so he could appreciate Aylward's discomfort. Angus, as always, had vanished the moment he saw a conversation starting and gone to spark another one elsewhere. There was a vacant double seat in the nearest of the alcoves off the dance floor. Martinu headed for it. There was a couple engaged in violent love-making on the other seat but he ignored their looks of irritation as he sat Aylward down. He said, "Let me get you a drink." "That's very kind of you," said Aylward. He wiped sweat from his forehead with a bandanna handkerchief matching his Mexican-styled cummerbund. "A long cool one, for choice." "Will do," said Martinu, and went in search of a waiter. He was on his way back with the drinks when Angus, a look of anxiety on his long face, pushed through a cluster of other guests and caught his arm. "Martinu, I guess I should warn you about old Aylward. I mean, he's a nice guy and a genius and all that. But like a lot of geniuses he's a bit nutty on one point. Unfortunately you've hit it right away." "What? Busters?" "Yes. He has a perfectly absurd theory about what they are and where they come from. If you get him started on it, he'll bend your ear all night." Martinu shrugged. "If he hasn't got a right to theorize about busters, who has? Besides, the Aylward Field got me a share in one. I reckon listening to him for an hour or two is a cheap price to pay for that." "Damn it, I had to tell him what a buster was, once!" Angus made sweeping gesture which spilled his drink over the back of his hand. Fishing for a handkerchief to dry it, he went on, "In fact, if it hadn't been for me -- " Something in Martinu's expression warned him. He broke off "I guess I told you about that. Sorry. IF But don't say I didn't warn you, will you?" Martinu grinned and walked on. T he lovers had gone, presumably in search of more privacy. He set a tall frosted glass beside the professor and sat down himself. "I got you julep," he said. "Is that all right?" "Perfect." Aylward produced a length of tubing and dropped one end into the glass to save himself the effort of holding it up while he drank. "What are you having?" "Slivovitz," said Martinu. "Sort of homage to my Balkan ancestry. Anyway, what brings you back to Earth after such a long time, professor?" "Oh, someone seems to be infringing the patents on the Field," Aylward answered. "Angus told me I was needed, so I came down. He's my agent, you know -- and very good he is. I don't know how I'd manage without him. I've always found the world of commerce far more complicated than any problem in astrophysics, because it's easier to improve your equipment than yourself." "You haVe quite a setup at Copernicus, don't you? They tell me it's the best equipped observatory in the System, and you financed practically all of it yourself. May I inquire -- does the Field bring you in a good income?" Aylward gave a tired smile. "Excellent! I never expected so much return for so little effort." He drew out the tube from his now half-empty glass and began to run it absently between his fingers. "People sometimes ask me," he went on, "why I stick at my job when I'm wealthy enough to live in luxury on Earth. I think you'll probably understand me when I say I think I made a sensible decision." He cocked any eyebrow at Martinu. The captain suddenly found himself liking Aylward a lot. He smiled, and as he nodded agreement his hair bobbed around his face. It was too soft for the Fijian style, so he had had to settle for curls like a Queen Anne wig. Being used to a free-fall crewcut he found it a permanent irritation. Damn these silly Earthside fads! "I wouldn't even have come to this party but for Angus's insistence, Aylward went on. "I depend completely on him, as I said, and he does have this tendency to fly off into space over the littlest things... We were on the Algol together when we located the buster which started the whole thing. Did he ever tell you the story?" Almost, Martinu said, "He's told everybody!" But he checked himself. For one thing, Angus's version of the story had probably been colored by the passage of time, while Aylward's might give a different slant. And for another, though the professor's tone had been conventionally light, Martinu sensed that he was actually aching to find someone to listen to him. Angus had more than likely gone around warning all his other guests about Aylward's obsession with the buster problem. He set his glass down on his knee. "That was when Rusch was in com# mand, wasn't it?" he said. "Yes, I'd very much like to hear about it." II T he radar tech first class at number three screen held his breath for a long moment. When he let it out, it was to speak in a voice shaky with excitement. "Buster, sir!" he said. The lieutenant on the other side of the room whipped around and bounded over with a hard kick at the far wall. He caught the back of the tech's chair with one hand and hung there floating, his eyes wide. "Where -- where do you see it?" he demanded. "There, sir." The tech put his finger on a large green blip near the center of the screen. "It broke through about ten seconds ago. I saw it arrive. And the range and mass are exactly right." He hardly waited for an answer before shouting to the orderly at the phone desk. "Green, get me a line to the bridge!" "Aye-aye, sir," said the orderly unemotionally. The lieutenant turned to the screen again. He said, "What's the range?" "About four and a half kil, sir. Right under our feet." The lieutenant whistled. "Well, for sure it didn't sneak up on us. Read it for relative velocity, will you?" The tech slid cross-hairs over the screen, centered on the blip, pressed the switch of the doppler integrator. They waited the necessary five seconds and a figure went up on the dial. "Six hundred," the lieutenant said "Hasn't settled into its natural orbit yet. I think -- " He was going to say he thought the tech was right, but the communications orderly interrupted. "Bridge, sir!" "Chuck it over," said the lieutenant, and picked the phone put of the air as it soared across the room. He continued into it, "Ahmed, screen-room watch, sir. One of my techs thinks we're on a buster." "Hah!" said Captain Rusch skeptically. "How are we doing for white whales this week?" "It showed up without warning on number three screen at four and a half kilomiles, sir. We haven't had a chance to check its orbit yet, but its relative velocity is only six hundred. There was a pause. At length Rusch grunted. "Right, I'll get a 'scope on it," he said. "Bearing?" "Oh seven-six and a half, sir." "Thank you. Lieutenant. I'll let you know the verdict. Don't get to worked up till we're sure, will you?" That, of course, was a pious hope, Rusch reflected as he gave the bridge phone back to his own communications orderly. He could tell from the expressions on the faces around him. Even the normally placid Commander Gabrilov, who had been close enough to hear what Ahmed said, was showing excitement. "Okay," Rusch said. "O-kay. I don't have to say it again." Gabrilov gave a shamefaced grin lie IF and pushed himsell over to the 'scope controls. 'Oh-seven... six and a half," he said under his breath as he set them. "Four and a half kil... Yes, there's something there all right." "Get it on the screens," Rusch said. "Come on now!" He felt his heart pounding faster as he glanced at the big screen mounted over the pilot board at the forward end of the bridge. A click. An ill-defined, misshapen object appeared in the center of the square frame. It could have been anything out of the asteroid belt. There was a long silence. At last Gabrilov said, "Do you think it could really be a buster?" "Well, why the hell don't you take steps to find out?" Rusch snapped. Gabrilov colored. "Sorry, sir!" he mumbled. He barked at the communications orderly. "Tell Warrant Officer Fisher to draw power for a laser beam! Ask Lieutenant Ahmed to stand by for spectroanalysis!" "Aye-aye!" said the orderly fervently, his eyes bright. While they were waiting, Rusch glanced at Gabrilov. He said as though, there had been no interruption, "It could be a buster, of course. It's some while since the last one was found, but there have been forty-five of fhe things, and they turned up all over the System. One was found in a lunar equilateral, wasn't it? But even if this is a buster, you've got to remember one thing." "What?" "They may not all be worth picking up. Some of them may only bo lumps of iron, for instance. It hasn't happened yet, but it's possible." Gabrilov bit his lip and looked lugubrious. The communications orderly said, "Sir! Screen room!" Rusch seized the phone. Gabrilov came diving over to hover beside him. "Get this, sir!" Ahmed's voice said. "Spectroanalysis shows iron -- cobalt -- nickel -- " Gabrilov pulled a face, looking down at the floor. "But also!" Ahmed said triumphantly. "Also silver, gold, uranium thorium, platinum, osmium, iridium..." He went on, but Rusch had lowered the phone. "Number forty-six," he said quietly. W hatever the reason for all that shouting and banging and laughing, Aylward wished they would stop it and let him concentrate. He was trying to cope with more figures than his portable calculator could handle, and running side factors in his head always gave him a headache. The door of his cabin slammed back and Angus burst in, frantic with excitement. The chain of figures vanished into limbo and Aylward clapped his hand to his face. "For heaven's sake, what are you playing at?" he snarled. "Didn't you hear?" said Angus, braking himself on the far wall with his foot and bouncing back towards Aylward. "What are you doing?" "Trying to resolve some survey data -- if you'll kindly give me the chance to finish the job." Aylward spoke with heavy sarcasm; he was an old-young man of thirty-five with glasses and an expression which was usually mild but now was thunderous. "I never heard such a racket!" "But we've picked up a buster!" Angus exclaimed. Aylward sighed and pushed his papers under a clip to hold them to the table before sliding his chair back in its guides. "Is that serious?" he said. "Does it take long?" Angus hooked a leg under the tabletop and shook his head pityingly. "Are you trying to say you don't know what a buster is?" he demanded incredulously. "You can carry an ivory-tower pose too far, you know!" "All right, tell me what it is," Aylward snapped. Angus rolled his eyes, but shrugged and complied. "Nobody knows what they are -- exactly. They're lumps of matter that apparently drop from nowhere. Radar doesn't show them till they're well within detector range, and they think this may have something to do with the fact that they're fuller of high-number radioactives than a pudding is ot plums." "Oh, yes!" Aylward said. "Of course Tve heard of them! But there haven't been any for some time, have there? What are they like?" "Turn your screen on, and you'll see one. Captain Rusch had the 'scope image piped in for everyone to look at." Aylward did so. The screen lit with a knife-sharp picture of a roughly spherical object, scarred across by the sweep of the highpowered laser beam. It was approximately a hundred feet in diameter. Lights from the ship were playing on it now, and made it gleam against the black depths of space. "I wonder how much we'll get," Angus said in an awed tone. "Come again?" #"These things contain fabuA lous riches!" Angus gave him a supercilious glance. "So your ignorance doesn't show too much, listen and I'll give you the background. "The firt one was found by the Aurora about six years ago. They couldn't believe their eyes when they saw it drop out of nowhere -- a hundred-foot ball of concentrated wealth. They got thousands of tons of platinum out of it, gold, silver, uranium, and so many diamonds they practically bankrupted the commercial manufacturers. All the rest -- there've been forty-five to date -- have been cast in the same mould. The precious metals have more or less flooded the market, but the demand for radioactives is still high, and everyone who's found a buster has become rich for life. "After the Aurora case there was a gold rush to the asteroid belt -- no, don't interrupt, let me finish! But you don't seem to find busters with the ordinary planetoids. They showed up air over the System. And another odd thing -- this is the first to be discovered in some years, alIF though at one time they were being found at the rate of about two a month. Of course, this is probably a statistical accident; they're virtually undetectable until you're right on top of them." Aylward said, "All right, all right! I remember no. They predicted chaos. But in the event we absorbed the impact pretty well." "So well you don't seem to have noticed it at all," Angus commented dryly. Aylward ignored the jab. "Just a second," he said. He was frowning, for no reason Angus could think of. "If forty-five were found, and they were coming at an average two per month, the rush lasted two years. You don't know the dates of the first and last reported findings, do you?" "Huh?" Angus blinked. "Well, the Aurora got the first on twenty-seventh April, eight-six -- uh -- and the Capella got the forty-fifth some time in March of eighty-eight. Middle of March -- I think the seventeenth. Why?" Aylward said, "And it's ninety-two now!" He began frantically unstrapping himself from his chair. "Hey! Where are you off to in such a hurry?" Aylward looked grim. "Not being a seasoned space-traveler," he said, "I was a bit worried before making this trip about the number of ships that have been lost lately. I looked into it fairly closely to make sure I had a statistical chance of getting home." "What's that got to do with -- ?" "Since you have such a good memory for dates, you can tell me when the current run of losses started. They said thirty had gone missing in the past four years -- more than in the preceeding two decades!" Bewildered, Angus said, "Sure I can tell you. The Dubhe was lost on the Venus run some time between tenth March and first April of eighty-eight." "And the next ship to go?" "The Lucifer, She vanished -- " He broke off and bit his lip. "About two weeks later," Alyward said, kicking himself through the door. Angus hung where he was for a moment; then he gave a gasp and dived in the other's wake. Ill T he door of the bridge slid back with a squeal of complaint. Rusch turned. When he saw who the intruder was, he frowned. It was all very well to say that young Aylward was potentially the greatest living authority on theoretical astrophysics; it was all very well for him to want to make surveys distant from the sun -- but on simple principle Rusch disapproved of non-service personnel shipping on anything other than a proper passenger liner. However, the rosy glow attendant on the discovery of a buster had mellowed him to the point at which he did not even ask brusquely who had authorized Aylward to trespass on the bridge. He merely said, "Yes, Mr. Aylward? What do you want?" "Angus tells me you've located what they call a buster," Aylward said. His face was pale, and his eyes were very wide behind his glasses. "Yes, we have," Rusch agreed. A thought struck him, and he called to Gabrilov on the other side of the room. "I forgot to order 'splice the mainbrace, Mr. Gabrilov! I imagine the men are expecting it." "Aye-aye, sir!" "Captain!" Alyward said desperately. Rusch turned a frosty eye on him; he had jumped to the obvious conclusion. "D o n't worry, Mr. Aylward. There's enough valuable material in that thing out there to keep all of us in comfort for the rest of our natural lives. And spatial law provide that non-service personnel are entitled to two-thirds of a crewman's share. All we can do right now is stake our claim, of course, and with luck tow it into orbit at our destination. But we'll start the mining as soon as -- " "Captain, if I were you I'd be very chary even of staking a claim, let alone mining that thing!" Aylward regretted that force of habit had made him draw his feet down to the floor, because the captain was floating a foot off it, and so looked a long way down at him. There was a frigid silence. At last Rusch said. "Would you like to explain yourself, Mr. Aylward? If you can, that is." "Well, it seems to me -- " Aylward hesitated how to make this clear? Then he plunged on. "Isn't it a fact that no buster has been reported for four years, though there was a positive spate of them before that? And didn't the start of the current run of ships lost in space -- thirty known vessels and who knows how many others belonging to prospectors and freebooters -- didn't this coincide with the end of the stream of reported busters?" "By God, that's right!" The exclamation came from Gabrilov. "I'm sorry, sir," he added to Rusch. 'But the Dubhe was the first to go since they perfected atomics. And I have every reason to remember that she vanished about a fortnight fter the forty-fifth buster -- the Capellas. I was due to be aboard, but I was held back by an ear infection." "The odds against this are tremendous," Aylward said. He saw that Gabrilov's interruption had impressed Rusch, and was in haste to seize his momentary advantage. "Which is why I think it would be terribly dangerous to come too close to the buster. Uh -- what exactly is involved in what you call 'staking a claim' ?" "Just a moment!" Rusch said. "Are you envisaging that the buster might be unstable and blow up?" "Well..." Aylward looked at the floor. "There's an awful lot of reactive material in it, they tell me." "Hmph! It can't be very sensitive, then. We spectroanalyzed it with a laser beam intense enough to boil some of its surface off. What do you think, Gabrilov?" G abrilov was silent for a few seconds. At length he said, "Well, sir -- we don't lose anything by being careful. To stake our claim, we'd normally match velocities and coast in close, wouldn't we? We're still calculating whether we have IF enough reaction mass to take the thing in tow. But I don't think we have, so we'll have to send someone over and plant an identification beacon -- but much of the surface will be hot. I see several reasons why we should stand well off and take time out to program a remote-controlled missile to act as a marker." Rusch pondered. "Yes, it'd be cutting things fine to try and get something that massive into orbit at the end of this trip. I was working on the assumption that all we could do would be to mark her with a longlife beacon and come back under no load to fetch her... Very well, Mr. Aylward. I'll arrange to send out an unmanned lifeboat with the beacon in it. There's enough iron in the buster for electromagnets to get a grip. And to satisfy your qualms, we'll keep our distance." "Thank you, Captain," Aylward said. He was surprised to find, now that he'd made his point, that he was shaking all over and his forehead was slippery with sweat. They tied the lifeboat controls directly in to the pilot board on the bridge, and Gabrilov took charge. On the screen was a split-image projection: one screen showed the view from the lifeboat itself, the other the picture from the side of the ship as the lifeboat curved outwards towards the buster. Almost a quarter of an hour crept by on leaden feet as Gabrilov delicately maneuvered the tiny lifeboat closer and closer to the buster. Abruptly a tiny buzzer on the control board beeped and kept on beeping. "A hundred miles," Gabrilov said, not looking away from the screen in which the buster had grown progressively from a mere spot of light to a sizeable globe. "The homer has picked it up. Shall I just let it go its own way now?" "How far above the surface will the magnets take charge?"' "From about ten miles they ought to give a soft enough landing for the beacon to survive undamaged." "Then try and match velocities with the lifeboat about ten miles off." Gabrilov raised an eyebrow and looked worried, but he moved the main jet control slightly. The image of the lifeboat in the other half of the screen showed a spurt of reaction mass. More time limped by. At last Gabrilov gave a precisely timed touch to the braking jet control, and sat back. "Very nice," Rusch said under his breath. "Yes, she's going down." Aylward wondered if his heartbeats were audible to those around him; he was almost deaf with the rush of blood in his ears, and he was breathing fast and urgently. On the screen, the buster grew to moonsize, Earth size, and still larger; by now the lifeboat and the buster could no longer be seen separately from the ship without high magnification. The beeping grew to an intolerable unbroken buzz and stopped short. "Well, she's down," Gabrilov said unnecessarily. "And it looks as though -- " He got no further. On both halves of the screen there was suddenly an eruption of incredible, sun-like light, as though a miniature star had been born. #rew's getting restive, sir," Gabrilov said, putting back the phone. "That was the MO with the casualty statement. One man was watching through binoculars. He's going to need new eyes when we land, and a man in the nav section was looking down a 'scope, and he'll need one new retina. The radar tech who first spotted it has gone hysterical and needed sedation, and we have at least half a dozen cases of radiation sickness incipient." Rusch grunted. He had been more affected by their narrow escape than he wanted to reveal. He said, "It seems to me some of us joined the service for no better reason than the chance of sharing in a buster! The thing would have blown us to glory if we'd gone much closer. Tell 'em they're lucky to be alive. Did the thing leave any debris, by the way?" "Not a scrap," said Gabrilov gloomily. "Oh, there's probably some dust hell-bent for the stars, but nothing big enough to pick up." "It can't have been a total-conversion reaction!" The idea seemed to hit Rusch like a physical blow. 'Np -- or even at this distance, we wouldn't have survived to talk about it." Gabrilov drew himself down to a chair and formed his body into a posture as though resting on the seat. After a moment, he said, "Lieutenant Ahmed was talking about space-mines. Weapons of war. At first I thought he was just suffering from the after-effects of seeing his dreams of riches go bang. But the more I reflect, the more I'm inclined to wonder." across the room at Aylward. "What do you think?" he demanded. Aylward shook his head seriously. "I don't think it's war. I mean -- well, we haven't suffered much material damage. It's cost us thirty or so ships, but we have three and a half thousand in regular service. The loss of experienced space personnel is probably more serious, but still it's a fleabite. And besides, why should... someone who can afford to disguise a mine with thousands of tons of metal, and induce a reaction as efficient as the one we saw, waste effort on sowing a few mines randomly in space? They could so easily make a job of it by launching a few into orbits intersecting Earth's. No, I don't think we have to invoke an enemy. My guess is that the busters are inherently unstable, being composed of such heavy elements. Conceivably they don't even belong in our order of space-time. Alteration of the nature of the space around them -- on the arrival in the vicinity of a large and massive object, such as a spaceship -- might upset their not very good equilibrium and blow them back into the continuum from which they came." He frowned deep ly. "And yet this leaves so many questions unanswered. Why, for instance, were many of them safely brought into orbits around humanoccupied worlds? I had it in the back of my mind that they might be IF contraterrene, but since some of them were -- uh -- hooked, this is out of the question. I think I'm going to give this matter some further investigation." "Well, we can't do much here," Rusch said heavily. "We have sick men on board who need planetside medical care, but even if we hadn't I'd order immediate planetfall. This news about busters is too urgent to keep to ourselves. Gabrilov!" "Sir?" "Get the nav section to program us an orbit that will take us in radio range of a government station as soon as possible, and then home. Have the men strap down for a turning maneuver. And you'd better have the MO issue decelerine, too. We're in a hurry!" IV M artinu looked regretfully at his empty glass, and realized as he did so that the gentle voice of Professor Aylward had stopped. With an effort he brought himself back to the present, eyeing the other with curiosity. One would never have taken him for such a damned good story-teller. "So that was how it all began," he said after a pause. Aylward was tying knots now in his length of tubing. He nodded. "Mark you," he said, "it wasn't easy to convince the authorities. I say. I'm sorry to have to ask you, but would you do me a favor." "Of course." "Well, I'd like another drink, and I don't feel up to fetching one." 'Oh, certainly!" Martinu pulled himself to his feet. His muscles complained a little, but he adjusted after a moment or two and walked off with their glasses to find a waiter again. He was feeling a little superior by the time he got back. After all, Aylward enjoyed at least some gravity most of his life, whereas a spaceman like himself had to cope with the change from no gravity at all to one full gee every time he landed on Earth. Handing Aylward his new drink, Martinu wondered whether it was genuine devotion to duty or some defect of personality which made the tubby man hide himself away on the far side of the moon. He suspected the latter, now he came to think about it. What a shame -- to be so outstanding in one narrow field, and yet basically incompetent in the most important field of all, that of being an ordinary person. With disconcerting insight Aylward said, "There's no need to be sorry for me, you know." Martinu choked on a mouthful of his drink and began to make frantic denials. Aylward ignored him. Staring at the dancers inexhaustibly whirling around the floor, he went on, "I pity you as much as you pity me, and both of us ought to pity the people here. Like mice, when the cat's away. Was he going to become maudlin, for heaven's sake? Martinu decided to change the subject as quickly as possible. He said, "You were saying something about convincing the authorities, professor." "Was I?" Aylward blinked; the alcohol was taking effect on him. "Ah, so I was! Yes, I remember a blockheaded idiot named Machin -- a bureaucrat if ever there was one -- who tried to make out that we'd concocted a plot to filch all future busters away from their rightful owners. Like most people, he needed to have his nose rubbed in the truth before he'd accept it. But for him, we could have saved the Sirrius #CT remember the SiriusV MarX tinu said. "I had friends on her. She found a buster within radio range of Luna Port -- " "And because of Machin and his like," Aylward interrupted, "it went right in to grab it, and was blown up with eight hundred people aboard. Too many people saw it happen with their own eyes, and went blind like the crewmen of the Algol, for that affair to be hushed up. "So they fell over backwards to make amends. I was given facilities for taking proper equipment to the spot when the next buster appeared. By the time the fifth or sixth one showed up. I'd worked out the theoretical pattern of the Field. They try and tell me it was difficult to do. but don't you believe it The math is simple enough. What did give trouble was getting the generating equipment down to portable size. But we managed it in the end, made it a commercial proposition -- . nd busters held no more terrors; we could stabilize them in our spacetime long enough to cut them up and separate out the radioactives." His s's were getting the least bit i#e slurred, and he was staring at his fingers as though unsure quite how many he could see. "Angus tells me," he went on after a pause, "that it might have been a very bad thing. It was the direct cause of the vast inflation we underwent -- when? -- oh, thirteen or fourteen years ago, because the market for precious metals was saturated. It's the cause of prices like five bucks for a cup of coffee and two hundred for a taxi ride. I remember I used to dream of having it get you? I bet Angus is spending to include the whole of the gaiety around them. Distantly in the background a theremin was playing a solo in imitation of a trumpet. Martinu nodded pontifically. "But of course it also cured us of the tendency to place arbitrary values on things," Aylward finished. "Now we prize only work invested as a backing for currency, and the uranium from the busters made cheap fission-power possible, so maybe the trade was a good one. Ah!" A waiter in search of empty glasses entered the alcove, and Aylward signaled to him. "Get the captain another!" he instructed. "And one of the same for me." Martinu hesitated, then shrugged. "Slivovitz," he told the waiter, who nodded and hurried away. A man and a girl, holding hands, looked in to see if the alcove was unoccupied, and on finding it wasn't moved away. The waiter returned with the fresh glasses. "Foof!" Aylward said, having IF gulped at his. "That's rather good." He lowered the glass cautiously beside him, then leaned back, sleepily half-closing his eyes. "Look at them," he said. "Three bell the cat?" Martinu, whose own wits were apparently slipping a little, said foggily, "I beg your pardon?" blind mice. Who'll bell the cat? " repeated Aylward with dignity. "Though there isn't a cat, that I know of. For 'Who'll bell the cat?' read 'The mouse ran up the clock'." No, it was no good. Martinu didn't try to follow that one. A ylward finished his drink, with an appreciative belch, and said, "I suppose mice don't do so badly, really. What were we talking about?" "Mice, apparently," Martinu said. "I was talking about mice," Aylward corrected. "We were talking about busters. This can't last, you know." "What can't last?" "All this!" said Aylward largely. He gestured. "Not just this party -- everything else too. All unconscious of their doom the little victims play. Tell me, do you think the human race is master of its fate, or do you believe, like some people, that we're property?" Martinu was relieved to hear a fairly sensible remark for a change. He considered the question. "That's one of Fort's speculations, isn't it? I -- well, I don't know." "I'll tell you," Aylward promised. "Do you think you're of value to anyone but yourself?" "Well, no." "You're lucky. So am I. Just think of all the poor people who think they do matter. How disappointed they'll be when they find they don't!" "When will that be?" Martinu said, feeling it was expected. "Oh, definitely some time. Do you know what a buster is? I mean, what it's for?" Martinu was finding this a little tedious. He wished he had taken Angus's advice. "Tell me," he requested resignedly. "I warn you, you won't believe me. Angus doesn't, and he's a typical hard-headed individual. None of the other people I've told has believed me either. Anyway, I'll tell you. You said you didn't know if we were property or not. Well, we aren't property. Because we aren't worth owning. We're just one hell of a nuisance. Did you ever find yourself bothered with mice?" Sheer politeness, nothing else, drove Martinu to bring to bear what concentration he had left. "When I was a kid," he said finally, "I recall my mother had a house full of them. But they never bothered me. I rather liked them -- except for the stink." "How did your mother get rid of them?" "Well, I guess we tried trapping them first. That didn't work for long -- the cunning so-and-so's soon learned to avoid the traps. So in the end we poisoned them." Another couple appeared at the entrance of the alcove, with their arms round each other They were too absorbed to notice that anyone else was present, and walked past the seat where Aylward and Martinu were towards the curtains hanging behind it. Glad of some distraction, Martinu glanced over his shoulder and saw that they had drawn one of the curtains back to reveal an open window; they were leaning on the sill and staring at the stars. He envied them. "All right," Aylward said. "Now if you wanted to do something like that to men, what would you use for baiting your traps?" "Pm sorry?" Martinu came back with a start. Aylward repeated the question. "Well," Martinu said, humoring him, "Pd use something either useful or precious." "Exactly. And you'd lay some groundbait first, to lure the unsuspecting victims to the traps when they were put down." Suddenly Martinu got it. He wondered why it had taken him so long, he said disgustedly. But after a moment he saw the amusing side of it -- and after all, Angus had warned him! He chuckled. "So they're mousetraps, and we're the mice!" he said. "Aat an idea! But aren't you overlooking one thing in your analogy. Howabout the poison?" "I was coming to that," said Aylward with equanimity. "And so, I judge, are the 'people' who planned the busters. When the mice started dodging the traps, did your mother latch on at once?" "No, we kept right on setting them for a while. It was only when they became a real pest we turned to poison." "Pre-cisely!" Aylward looked pleased. "I imagine that they -- whoever they are -- will decide that their traps aren't working any nore. Then someone will find a super-large, stable buster and bring it to Earth, and -- that will be that." A cold chill moved down Martinu's spine. Trying to ascribe it to the open window behind him, he said slowly, "Haven't you heard?" "Heard what?" "Mohammed Abdul in the Vega just brought in the first stable buster since the Capella'sl Parked it in orbit today! And -- and it's an outsize one, a giant!" Alyward's face, all of a sudden, went pasty-pale. He looked at Martinu and tried to speak, but couldn't. Behind them, the girl looking out the window said in a tone of puzzlement, "Honey, what's the time?" "Three o'clock. Why?" said her companion. "I thought it wasn't dawn yet. And that isn't even the east over there. But look how red the sky is Don't miss Worlds of Tomorrow! Complete story by Keith Laumer IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: I just finished reading the July If, and I enjoyed it very much. Mightiest Qorn was one of the best Retief stories IVe read so far. I'm looking forward to more in this series. The Faces Outside was very good, and so was Down to the Worlds of Men, and I hope to see more by these two new writers. I didn't intend to start the serial until I had all the parts, but I accidentally got interested in it, and now I am eagerly awaiting the next issue. I fen joy all the features in If, especially the letter column. I have two small suggestions. First, why not print the approximate date the next issue goes on sale? It'd make it harder for non-subscribers to miss an issue. Second, please print the number of installment there will be in a new serial so the reader know what he's getting into. Outside of these small things, I hope If stays exactly the same. Keep up the good work on your fine magazine; it's one of my favorites. -- Arthur Horan # New York Avenue Brooklyn #, New York  You've got a good point about printing the number of installments a serial will take. We'll do it. Actually we plan to hold all future serials to two parts -- simply because four months is too long to ask you to wait! -- Editor,    Dear Editor: I wish to protest the suggestion of Mr. Norwood in the July issue of If, that you expand the letter column to five pages. A letter column is an untrustworthy and usually boring beast, which talks for extended periods on subjects of interest only to itself, and in a manner which often shows an ignorance of English grammar. If you must print readers' letters, you could at least show the editorial discrimination concerning them that you show toward your stories, printing only the outstandone, e.g., those of general interest. As a rule, an individuars opinions of a story are not of general interest when they are expressed in general terms of approval or disapproval. Specific, constructive criticism is valuable, but I fear that most letters are of value only to the editor, and should not find their way into print. I would suggest, then, that the letter column be included in the magazine only when you have received enough letters to make it worth the space, which would normally be used for a story. -- John T. Sapienza, Jr. Box #, # Walnut Street Philadelphia #, Pennsylvania #i   Dear Editor: I have a relevant if rather belated (belated because we always get the issues late over here) comment on You and Nostradamus, A bank of organs of the human body was predicted, and on a recent news bulletin it was announced that such a bank was operating here. Specifically, heart valves of young road crash victims were being used to replace worn-out organs of elderly people. One of the main difficulties appeared to be contacting of the relatives of the deceased within # hours -- after which the organs are useless. There was a statement that the bank was fast running out of supplies (but no mention of tatooing Another interesting item on the same bulletin was that doctors discussing quarantine procedures foresaw future difficulties with space vehicles and their men If has improved greatly in artwork, paper and printing recently. My main grievance is that there are no book reviews, which could easily be made room for by cutting out one of your shorter shorts, which are usually pretty poor. If is certainly becoming more readable, and you seem to provide fair Space Opera -- which is in itself a novelty. More and better, please! E. E. Smith and Heinlein's serials are good selling points, as well as the Retief series. -- Terene Bull #, Mansfield Road Northampton, England  Smith? Well, we have a couple coming up that will interest you. One, by this same E. E. Smith, is a little number called Skylark DuQuesne. We don't quite know when we'll publish it, because the manuscript isn't in yet -- but Doc is putting the finishing touches on it right now ! And now we're out of room again. Our 'first" story for this month is Long Day in Court by a fellow who hides under the pseudonym of "Jonathan Brand" and, under his real name, occupies a responsible position with a large university. This is his first fiction anywhere -- but not his last, because we've already bought morel Next issue? Philip K. Dick, Robert F. Young, a particularly fine two-part serial beginning by Poul Anderson -- yes, it's a good one. And we have a problem in semantics concerning it for you to chew over: The next issue of If contains two Poul Anderson stories, but only one of them is by Poul Anderson. How come? Well, come around next issue and see! -- Editor. IF If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers -- challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names in science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohl, Davidson, Simak, Bloch, Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Send me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Address. Use coupon or order by letter if you wish A Correspondence Institution # South Dearborn St., Dept. #-# Please send me, free of rost or ohlifation, your illustrated booklet "Law Training for Leadership." Name Age... Address County City  Zone State... your previous schooling -- you can multiply your opfwrtunities for rapid promotion, big income and prestige through LaSalle Law Training at home, A knowledge of Law is regarded today as indispensable equipment in every activity of business. The greatly increased role of government in business, the many new problems of Law involving taxes, in surance, contracts, liability, employment, and much more -- all require the legally-trained executive who can make day-to-day decisions effectively. That is why leading corporations seek out such men for key positions and reward them with top salaries. You can master Law easily and enjoyably at home -- at remarkably low cost -- under the supervision of LaSalle's distinguished Law faculty. You work with actual legal cases, acquiring real experience. Upon completion of your training, you are awarded a Bachelor of Laws degree if qualified. The famed LaSalle Law Library of # volumes is given to you as part of your course. Send  century LaSalle has jqj. been an acknowledged leader in busithis training, with more than # students. Send for the free booklet Book  Training for Leadership" and see  how LaSalle can help you move up rapidly in your career. Address: # So. Dearborn St... Chicago #, #. Stop wasting time in a dead-end job! Enjoy the big rewards offered the Law-trained man in business m as a way to increased earnings JANUARY #  #c His enemies were his fellow men -- his only ally was a creature whom it was sure death to touch! -- and many more great science-fiction stories. The s in your neighborhood won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh mir iXamr Sirrr No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! # for #; #, #; #, with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor So! Cohen, Publisher David Perton, Production Manager John Assante, Art Director Cover by McKenna from Three Worlds to Conquer IF published bi-monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial T here I sat, as the ancient saying goes, with my teeth in my mouth and my bare face hanging out. Clamped to my head was a telephone operator's transceiver; before me was a iarge microphone; at my left was Hizzoner the Editor, F. Pohl, Esq., similarly caparisoned; and across from us sat a personable man hight Ed Joyce, who runs this dio. The transceivers shrilled in our ears at intervals, and from Out There in Radioland people threw questions by telephone. It is a great sport for those among you who would like to know what a live decoy feels like when he recognizes, among the bulrushes, a shooter of sitting ducks. Actually, this fear wasn't realized that day, and we had some interesting questions and a pleasant time of it; but one question does, I think, deserve a little space here. IF be generally to -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe ... ! Scribe Q-X.M. i San Jose, California  Please send me the free book. The Mastery j i of Life, which explains how I may learn to j i use my faculties and powers of mind.  i Name i i  Address I  City ! WTe Rosicrucians Fred had been describing the ref life in the laboratory. "Don't you think," demanded the disembodied voice from Out There in Etc., "that to create life in the laboratory is to usurp God?" Answer: No. Man's hands are God's work; the work of man's hands is God's work. (I spoke -- and speak -- for myself, of course.) So much for the question and the questioner, but I'm glad he brought it up and equally glad to do likewise here. The recurring suggestion that there's some sort of Armageddon going on between Science and Religion is, I think, a straw man for bigots. That Science has at one time or another dealt certain kinds of Religion a heavy blow, I do not argue. I do believe, however, that what received the blow was this or that set of fixed convictions, and not Religion itself. And I think that the idea that Science and Religion must of necessity be opposed to one another is a throwback at least to the #th Century -- perhaps farther -- and that to engage in this battle any more is equivalent to, and as quaint as, re-fighting the War of the Roses. It seems to me that this Armageddon notion springs from a concept which is more than a little insulting to both camps. Reduced to its simplest terms, it reads: Knowledge is Finite. The rationale would seem to be this: that jnly God can know everything and do everything. That the more man knows, the closer he gets to knowing It all, the more his science does, the closer it gets to doing it all; and that the end product vould be an omniscient and omnipotent man who would usurp the place of an omniscient and omnipotent God. Now, if science proves anything at all, it is that both knowledge and power potentials are infinite. The ultimate in either can never be reached. For those who care to believe it, God already has this knowledge and potency. How then could there possibly be a conflict in the matter? Furthermore, science has demonstrated time and again, and will always demonstrate, that the production of solutions is the richest source of new problems. This too seems to be an infinite process. As the size of our body of knowledge grows, so does the size of the as-yetunknown. And ever shall. Many churchmen can take this calmly in stride, regarding it (in which I concur) as a living manifestation of the greatness of this infinite Cause. I know personally a good many scientists Being people, they present a cross-section of convictions and attitudes quite as varied as those of any people. In the area of religion, I have met scientists far more devout than I could ever want to be; I've met unmoved, habitual, Sundaybest churchgoers, backslid Orthodoxers; agnostics, atheists and peo pi who just don't care one way or another. There is no secret sect of guys with test-tubes out to destroy the temples. There are more anti-religionists outside Science than in it... and if God thinks about this at all, He probably feels that He made a cosmos quite roomy enough to contain them all. IF HHf mm.  :...S-WSV t'tl'fifo. 'v.V'i IF  Short Story Against the invaders from space man had a secret ally -- from the ocean's depths! M ack maintained later he had merely assessed the situation and acted accordingly -- something any dolphin could have done. The Admiral was just plain impressed -- and proved it -- and, for his part, Gabriel Anaka was overwhelmingly satisfied in having proved one point. The only ones who had no comment at all were the Tegels and the manta ray. First, there had been the spotting of the Tegel ship, a feat made easier (if not pleasanter) by its monstrous size. While the earth fleet circled it warily, the best minds available were put to work in an effort to establish communications and find out what the intentions were. The Tegels obliged, in their own time, and when the response to the beamed math-logic was received, the message didn't take long to decipher. It said in effect: "Your oceans interesting. Investigating." The signature symbols were roughly equivalent to "Tegels." While military minds pondered what was meant by "investigating," the Tegels provided the answer. They plopped down into the Gulf of Mexico a few miles off the Alabama coast "Starship Falls Off Alabama," one responsible southern daily informed its readers. The Admiral, with considerably less humor, dispatched a submarine to the scene. This move resulted in a long silence followed by a curt communication requesting "the absence of disturbances in our vicinity." There was no overt threat, but, as the Admiral pointed out, there was something ominous about the way "our" was used. Afro-Asian Commander Hoghenza recommended treaty talks. Soviet Commander Tushkin urged immediate attack. Indian Commander Bihar advocated neutrality for the Gulf of Mexico. The Admiral went in circles with them. Finally he got them to agree -- to investigate. And the best way to investigate, the Admiral concluded, was with Mack and Anaka. It was a conclusion arrived at with more than a few reservations. Mack was one of the ablest dolphins serving with Earth Fleet, but, to the Admiral's way of thinking, the eight-foot cetacean was a little too "unmilitary" in his attitude. Too independent, bluntly. He thought the same of Anaka, but there was no way of getting around it. A man-dolphin team was the best way to keep tabs on the Tegels, and Mack and the tall Polynesian had demonstrated their ability to get along. Demonstrated it too well in some cases, the Admiral thought. Item: On Venus, Anaka and Mack arrested on charge of trying to procure a gilled Venusian for immoral purposes. Case dismissed -- but widely reported -- after Mack argued it would have been impossible for either of them to be immoral with a lizard even if they had been sober. Item: Off Ganymede, Anaka and Mack demoted for polluting hydroponics tank in experiment to ferment algae alcohol. And so on. The Admiral sighed andsummoned the two to Fleet Headquarters. Anaka stood stiffly at attention, eyes fixed on a crack in the wall. "Furthermore," the Admiral continued sternly, "I want to impress on you the fact that the Tegels may be technologically equal -- or even superior -- to us." "Yes, Admiral." The Admiral picked up a model space cruiser and eyed it thoughtfully. "As for you, Mack," he said, turning toward the circular tank, "I don't think I need stress the importance of discipline in this matter." "Admiral... right. Not... needing... stress... point." The words came booming out of the amplifying unit surgically implanted by Mack's "mouth" -- the blowhole on top of his head. The Admiral's face turned red. He considered a lecture on what could happen -- what might happen -- if the Tegels turned out to be both militarily able and hostile at the same time. But he .changed his mind and stalked out of the room. IF 'V-, v T S v ' #A . A  ikv  ' n "Vft' s  The last thing he saw before he slammed the door was Anaka looking at Mack in admiration as the dolphin did a neat figure-eight on his back. # # X) oss ibly    dull... as... mulI let... head," Mack commented later as he towed Anaka around the Tegel ship in a wide circle for the fiftieth time. "Yeah," Anaka agreed disgustedly, hitting the stud to the small outside mask speaker with his chin. He loosened his grip on the plastic reins trailing from the halter around the dolphin's body. "Guess I'd better file a report." It was understood Mack wouldn't have to do it unless an emergency came up. It took him too long to form the difficult human words by vibrating the blowhole which served as his nostril. Anaka kicked his feet and headed for the surface, where the buoy with the tele-beam bobbed monotonously. The Admiral had demanded complete, concise reports. Anaka complied. "No activity around the ship," he advised. "And no sign of a Tegel yet." He signed off and went under again. When he reached the big dolphin, he hit him on the head playfully with a meaty fist. "Chow?" "Thinking... good... splendid... damfine... ideas." Anaka pulled a tube of "frogman's crud" from his belt and sucked on the tasteless combination of mushy fruit and protein. "You... enjoy?" "Sure." "Then... hoping... swallow... whole... thing," Mack rumbled, thwacking Anaka on the back cheerfully with his tail. Anaka choked, messing up the inside of his mask. "Overgrown sardine!" he shouted. Mack whistled a dolphin laugh and swam for shallower waters, where he overtook a school of speckled trout. He managed to gulp down three small ones before the rest of the school escaped. Anaka flipped off the glaring Hensen light and finished his meal in darkness, mulling over things to do to Mack. #," First Garn bubbled happi ly, "this is found in plentitudes?" With two tentacles he brought to his mouth the delightful new food creature they had discovered. He took a small bite, munching in pleasure. "There is much of it," Second Garn affirmed, watching the small spade fish disappear. "Such an offering," First Garn gurgled piously, "calls for gratitude." His small red eyes glowed meaningfully. "Indeed," Second Garn said, bringing out the metal-leatf Dutiful. He handed it to First Garn, as was proper, and First Garn began the intonation: "Prime Garn, power; Prime Garn, obedience; Prime Garn, laws... " The Tegel crew extended its myriad listening tentacles in obedient reverence. IF When it was over, the Tegel ship opened its suction locks to bring in more food samples to see if this new planet was worth while. It wasn't really necessary, however. First Garn had already decided. T he manta ray was big. It also was irritable. The irritation started with 'the churning motor of the fourteen-foot boat. And it reached its peak when the three men aboard started casting alongside the bat-like ray for the lemon fish that swam under it, feeding on offal. The ray went down in a powerdive. When it came up, the boat made another run on it for more casting. With an angry flip, the three thousand pound ray hurled itself over the boat. One man screamed and went over the side. The other two ducked and closed their eyes. Mack heard the distant crack as the ray hit the water, and, seconds later, pinpointed it with his natural sonar. "Unholy... king... mackerel!" "Huh? What in hell?" Anaka had been catching a nap, strapped to Mack's back with the reins. "Ray." "So what? There's lots of rays around here." The Polynesian unstrapped himself. "Lots... maybe," Mack thundered, pointing his beak toward the Tegel ship, "but... not... going   . that... direction!"Uh, oh!" Anaka had caught the ray in the Hensen light. "That's the biggest one I ever saw." "Maybe... trouble." Anaka thought a moment. "If it kicks up any fuss around their ship, no telling how they'll react." "Good... idea... getting... you... better... position... if... need... call... help." Mack swished his tail for emphasis. "Okay. I'm going up a hundred feet." "Going... further!" The Tegel ship was in fairly shallow water -- about three hundred feet -- but Mack knew any violence in the water could rip Anaka's skin-thin pressure suit. Anaka knew it, too, but he didn't like the idea of leaving Mack alone. "Listen, dammit, you aren't giving me orders!" "Not... arguing... now!" Mack got under Anaka and pushed him up. By the time Anaka could make out the buoy by natural light, he was grinning behind his mask. Mack always looked after him. "Be careful, Daddy!" "Suggest... you... idiot!" Mack prodded Anaka in the rear with his beak and swam back down alone. F irst Garn wiggled his tentacles exuberantly. Second Garn turned brown in vicarious pleasure. "There is," First Garn said, "absolutely no reason why we should not clear the way for colonization. No reason whatsoever." He took another bite out of the small white trout. "In fact," he continued, "Tokh himself could not dissuade me from taking over these splendid feeding grounds now." He tossed the remnants of the fish to Second Garn, who turned orange in appreciation. First Garn turned to take another sample from the specimen container. " Alarm, First Garn!" the watch crew signaled in unison before he could grab another small fish. "Alarm? Specify the nature." "It is a monster, First Garn," the watch crew replied. "It is coming toward our vessel!" First Garn swam to the observation scope and activated a scan beam. It took only a second to lock in on the approaching ray. "By Tokh, it is a monster!" Second Garn sneaked a glimpse and turned purple in apprehension. "Prepare to blast!" First Garn ordered. All three hundred of the blast crew readied the weapon. "Destroy!" The ray shuddered as the electron pellet struck, sending pain surging down every nerve path. Tail lashing in agony, it moved closer to the Tegel ship. First Garn turned blue. "Use primary weapon!" A thousand tentacles worked the fire-control panel. A slim projectile streaked toward the ray.  M ack rolled over when the shock waive hit him. After he regained his even keel, he quickly probed the water with his sonar. He spotted only pieces of the big ray. Mack turned away from the Tegel ship and sped up to Anaka. The Polynesian had been fa. enough from the explosion to avoid injury, but was waving his arms frantically as Mack approached. "Hell, I didn't catch any of it. What happened?" "Tegels... destroy... ray." "They spot you?" "Don't... think. Being... still ... and... not... too... near. "What kind of weapons?" "Unknowing... first... tried... but... didn't... seem ,... advanced." "And?" "Second... probably... high... explosives." "High explosives?" There was a trace of incredulity in Anaka's voice. "With a ship like that, you'd think they'd have some fission stuff." "Possible... probable... but... only... damfool... use... fission... in... water... close... range." "That figures. We better get to base personally with this." He grabbed the halter and let the reins out. Mack was thinking all the way back. # # A Tot only is it stupid," the Ad-L 'N miral barked, "it's also suicidal -- for us." Anaka, not wholly convinced the Admiral was wrong, kept his silence. Mack didn't. It seemed perfectly logical to him. "Urge... reconsider... Admiral. Hard... for... me... express... your... language... but... positive... will... work. "You have no guarantee, dammit And we can't take chances!" IF "Suggest... Admiral... knows... less... these... matters    than... dolphin." The storm signals were evident on the Admiral's face. "Don't be insubordinate, Mack," the Admiral growled. "Will... leave... then." Mack had him dead to rights. Although the dolphins were nominally under Fleet advisories, the Treaty of # gave them absolute freedom from human interference. Their service was voluntary. The Admiral glared down at Mack in the tank. "Get the hell out, in that case. No one's stopping you." Mack didn't reply. He glanced at Anaka once, then swam through the tank tunnel into the open sea. The Admiral turned to Anaka. "You think he was right?" "Well, I just don't know, sir." "As long as you have any doubt about it," the Admiral snapped, "you're confined to quarters." F irst Gam considered the ray's destruction proof that any dangerous life forms could be handled. "And isn't it true," he asked Second Garn, "that we have seen no other threatening forms?" "Yes, First Garn." "And that we have seen no intelligent opposition f to our rightful presence here?" "Yes, First Garn." "Then we may assume that the intelligent life forms are inferior and fear us. Prepare the summons." Broken down to its simplest semantic elements, the summons said: "Food good. Come." M ack took the lead and, in age-' old respect for the joy of life and its expression in graceful swim ming, slapped the water hard withhis tail every minute. The others waited patiently, and finally Mack spoke in the rapid whistling, clicking, grunting dolphin language. "I think we are obligated to act for them." "That might be," the dolphin behind him said, "but can you offer a truly valid reason?" "They are our friends." "You have told us of this Admiral." "But he is at a disadvantage. He does not understand the ways of the waters." "And you think these Tegels can be regarded in that light?" "There is every reason to believe so." "We will get no thanks for it, in all probability." "We have had our thanks." The meaning was clear, and several of the dolphins further back whistled their agreement. "Think," Mack said, "of all they gave us. A symbolic language. The ability to develop our own culture. Even a chance to explore space with them." The dolphin behind Mack could not argue. Before Homo sapiens discovered that dolphins had brains as fully developed as man's, the dolphins were an intelligent, but cultureless, species. They played, fed and bred with only a primitive language of a few basic meanings. Man had made something more of them, and Mack wanted a chance to prove it. "Will you follow me?" he asked. "Yes," the dolphin behind him aid. Mack listened. "Yes," the others whistled. Mack led the way. naka had disobeyed orders. Being confined to quarters had been bad enough, but the Admiral's indignation had increased instead of mellowing. He had told Anaka he wouldn't be working with dolphins any more -- Mack or any others. Anaka thought about it for a while in his room. "The hell with it," he said. He put on his pressure suit and walked to the beach. The water felt good as it covered him. Almost like his natural element. Mack picked the Polynesian up on his sonar about a mile from the Tegel ship. "What... doing... here?" he asked, nuzzling Anaka's mask gently. "Coming to watch after you, stupid." Anaka felt a little like crying. "Suggesting... trouble... with... Admiral?" "A little." Anaka tried to sound casual. "We... f ix... that... trouble," Mack predicted. Anaka felt suspicion forming in the back of his mind. "How's that?" "You... watch." Anaka swung the Hensen light around. He picked out two dolphins coming in. Then more. And more. "What in hell?" Mack whistled rapidly, and the dolphins formed a long line behind him. "Oh, no!" Anaka moaned as it dawned on him. "You can't be serious." "Very... serious." "They'll make mincemeat out of you, Mack. You dolphins have no weapons!" "We... thinking... Tegels... stupid," Mack asserted affably. "Stupid enough for spaceflight?" "Special... kind... stupid." "I can't talk you out of it?" "No." "In that case," Anaka said firmly, "I might as well watch the slaughter. And you're not going to talk me out of it." He took the underwater rocket-gun from its sheath. Mack gave the equivalent of a shrug with his tail and let Anaka hang on to his back. F irst Garn floated complacently as the technical crew prepared to send the rocket bobbing to the surface, from whence it would blast into orbit and transmit. "This is a moment of historic note," he told Second Garn, who turned a deep crimson in agreement. "Soon," First Garn predicted, "all of our people will offer us thanks." He waved his tentacles majestically. "Let the rocket go!" He followed it with a scan beam. It rose almost two hundred feet before an alert dolphin saw it, butted it to the bottom, hammered it into the mud and "sat" on it IF I V Special Christmas Gift Rates galaxy   # Issues # # Issues # # Issues # Add # for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions # Issues # # Issues # # Issues # Add # for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions omorroW # Issues # # Issues # HI # Issues # Add # for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions fj # Issues of Each  # # In K I # Issues of Each  # # In  mWm  m. If Add # for eoch (# Issues) foreign subscriptior Enclosed please find  in payment for subscriptions to be sent in accordance with the offers indicated in each case below:  I enclose additional gifts, on separate sheet No Postage Stamp Necessary if Mailed in the.U.S Permit No. # Sec, #, P.L.R. No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States New York. N. Y. a "Prepare all weapons!" First Garn raged. Mack whistled urgently. The dolphins withdrew rapidly and set up a cross-pattern of false sonar echoes. "Destroy!" First Garn screamed. The electron pellets and projectiles went off on a wild tack, misled by th. fake sonar. "Out of ship for attack!" First Garn screeched. The Tegels swam out after the dolphins, pulling portable assault weapons. Mack led the dolphins toward the Tegels. "Bring weapons to bear!" First Gam felt victory nearing. At close range, it could not be otherwise. The thousand-tenacled fire-control team brought the weapons to bear, carefully and accurately as the dolphins slowly came closer. So carefully was it done that by the time they were ready Mack had led the dolphins in a burst of speed behind them. "We have been outwitted!" First Garn shrieked. Several hundred Tegels swung around, noted First Garn was correct and awaited his command. It never came. Mack swallowed him with ease, and split seconds later the other dolphins were similarly occupied. Anaka remembered later, with some regret, that he had not fired a single shot. #Tn that case," the Admiral A laughed, slapping Anaka on the back, "I guess we'll have to credit the dolphins with the whole thing." "Yes, sir." The Admiral squatted down by the tank. "Mack, I disagreed with you when you told me what you wanted to do. I still think the risk was too great and, by all rights, both of you should be busted again." He paused smilingly. "That is if you'll let yourself be busted voluntarily -- again." "Think... dolphins," Mack said from the tank, "still... know... more... those... things..." The Admiral looked at Mack affectionately "Let me in on it?" Mack spouted a tall column of water, taking a deep breath. "Had... hunch... Tegels... have... fish... way... thinking." "Huh? Anaka beat the Admiral to the punch. "Had... feeling... would... follow... leader... blindly." "But, dammit," the Admiral broke in, "they were capable of space flight, so they must have been smarter than fish." "Smart... some... ways... stupid... others." "I think I get a part of it, Admiral," Anaka offered "He's trying tell us they had a blind spot in their behavior -- so far as the dolphins were concerned. In other words, without leadership they were absolutely helpless, incapable of independent action." The Admiral frowned. "How in hell could you count on getting them outside?" "Was... thinking... if... made... mad... enough... would... come... after... us." 'You didn't know that for sure, though," Anaka insisted. "No... but... knew... if... like... fish... in... thought... might... attack... in... group... like..." "Like a school of fish?" The Admiral's mouth was open. "Hoped... so." Anaka put his hand on the dolphin's head. "Were you sure you could foul up their weapons effectively?" "Not...sure... anything. Had... good... hunch... and... felt... our... duty." "Well, I'll be damned," the Admiral said reverently. "Probably," Anaka agreed. The Admiral didn't even hear him. He was thinking of another assignment for Mack and Anaka. T he President, reading from the official report, told the cheering crowds the dolphins took the chance because they felt they had better odds underwater than might have been had in an open space battle with the Tegels. And, he added somberly, teams going over the Tegel ship had indeed proved they were right. There was silence when he informed them of the summons that had been recovered and translated. Mack was not listening. He was tired from the lengthy questioning of the last few days. And he was thinking of a smaller, slimmer dolphin he had not seen for a long time. So he was reasonably surprised when Anaka, standing next to the President grabbed him around the middle and half lifted him out of the tank. He was even more surprised when the President taped the medal to his broad flanks. But the real moment of pride came later when the new space cruiser blasted out of its berth for its maiden trip Out. Mack was swimming in the spacious control tank -- Captain Mack of The Dolphin . Anaka was there in the No. # spot, helping the crew get used to Mack... It didn't take long.  Before they passed the Martian orbit, they had dropped the formal "sir" and just called him Captain Mack.  Mack liked it. So did the smaller dolphin who swam in the extralarge tank in Mack's quarters. They . In the December Worlds of Tomorrow Sequel to Big Baby, Arcturus Times Three, etc by J. T. McIntosh -- and many more! On sale now at all newsstands -- or IP IF  Feature F rom my throne here in the center of the universe, I took issue with a recent survey of science fiction, saying it was a pity not to have mentioned a certain half-dozen writers who had influenced the field. A faint rumor is going around that these six don't cut all that much ice, which is manifestly absurd -- as much so as the implication that there are other universes besides the one which revolves about this chair. Seriously, we do indeed perform many or most of our own definitions, and for me, science fiction could hardly be what it is, and what it has been to me, without these six -- in addition, of course, to the Hugo's and Heinleins, the Startlings and Stapledons, and all the other fixed stars in the sf firmament. These six were mentioned, not because of literary gigantism, not because you and you should burn offerings before their ikons, but only because sf could not be what it is to me without them. As you'll see, their status in my cosmos is personal andor professional. I stress again that I trouble to mention because they have been structural in my sf -- not necessarily yours. A. J. Budrys : In his very early twenties, Burdys produced a number of short stories each of which concerned, to greater, or less degree, old people. I freely confess that I don't know as much about anything as he did about old people -- the wistfulness, the scar-tissue, the compacted conservatism -- and the distilled knowledge that only a life-time of living can endow. There is at times an unleavened quality about his writing, which may be, for all I know, only consistent with this phenomenal percocity; for all that, it is my considered opinion that Budrys, should he care to travel that road, has the material in him for lasting greatness. Nevil Shute : Not only a perfect Journeyman nuts-and-bolts writer -- one who does his homework and uses all his tools -- Shute is to me the most perfect example of the general public's blind-spot concerning sf. If many sf writers have slightly paranoid feelings, it's because a readership which can readily discriminate between Shane and Hopalong Cassidy , between Graham Greene and Mickey Spillane, doesn't and won't learn the difference between the top ranks of sf and the funny papers. If On the Beach had been written by Edgar Pangborn (but then he wouldn't; and if he did, he might not have been able to sell it to any magazine in the field) no one would have heard of it. If Shute had written A Mirror for Observers (but then he couldn't) it would have been made into a Class A movie. In other words, any mainstream writer can get away with mediocre sf. Great sf tends to stay right in the clubhouse, even when it outranks its. contemporaries in every other field. Why, most of the people who buy this kind of thing don't even know they're reading science fiction; Fail Safe is a sf novel; so is #, and Seven Days in May, and Advise and Consent , and any other work which takes current knowledge and extrapolates it to probable or possible ends. (This, by the way, isn't my definition of sf -- just because it isn't all that sf does.) Edgar Pangborn is, then, Shute's mirror image in this matter. Go find A Mirror for Observers if you can and wonder with me how prose so polished, pacing so skilled, could with justice ever have been allowed to slip down the oubliette. wide a generalization to say that every sf satire, every sf comedy and every attempt at witty and biting criticism found in the field is a poor and usuually cheap imitation of what this man has been doing since the '#s. In addition I owe him a great deal personally, for his incredibly involved and complex mind can at times produce constructive comment so pointed and astute that the fortunate recipient is permanently improved by it. Admittedly the price may be to create two whole categories for our species: humanity, and Wm. Tenn, for each of which you must create your ethos and your laws. I've done that. And to me it's worth it. Vercors acquired this single name, if I remember correctly, in his days as a lethal journalist in the French Resistance. Most of his work reflects an almost unique ability to drive to real basics and subject them to scrutiny and analysis. The one book which affected me the most, both for content and method, is You Shall Know Them. The simple narrative situation is the discovery of a species, deep in the Outback, which is either a superior ape or an inferior man. Which it is presents the problem. Those who wish to train the creatures to work in mills and factories say they're animals. Those who feel otherwise set up a powerful . counterforce, most of the power being in noise and indignation. The protagonist decides to have the matter proved, and in his laboratory in England he personally impregnates one IF of the females (let me add here that this simple fact, when gossiped around, horrified potential readers by book its rightful place. Please tell your Aunt Amelia that the process was clinical, unromantic and performed with instruments) and when the offspring was born, he killed it (painlessly, Aunty) and then phoned the police. Now if the creature was an animal, so what? But if it were human, he was a murderer. Therefore: go to court. V ercors wrote this book around the (to me) shattering discovery that never in any literature, in all its history, has there been a true definition of Man. Descriptions, yes. Genuine definitions, no. He also pays the kind of tribute to the English courts which Joseph Conrad paid the English language; both men had adequate knowledge and experience to choose among many. He felt that the one place on earth where such a definition could be winnowed out was in an English Court of Law, and the bulk of the book is the trial transcript; and I'm not about to tell you how it comes out. What's important here is a matter of definition too. 'Here's a towering example of what sf is, can be and should be: an exploration of mores, attitudes and motivations, as well as science, clear down to bedrock so basic that it bears on every human being who ever drew breath. There are few expressions heard or read which have had such an impact on me; that I bewail the lack of a mention for this author is probably this difficulty I keep having that you think my universe isn't the universe. Tom Godwin is a name which possibly won't be found graven on granite three millennia from now; yet one story (of the many competent ones he has written) was another personal blockbuster. The Cold Equations is an extremely simple statement of the fact that natural law is to be used, not broken. A scout ship on a mercy mission upon which several lives depend is found to have a stowaway. Due to the un-bendable strictures of the situation, the stowaway must be thrown out or the ship will crash. Concededly, Godwin makes the most of the situation by having the stowaway turn out to be a pretty girl in her teens; aside from that, there's nothing in the story that isn't straight, clear and uncompromising. The human equation is of course agonizing, but in terms of the real problem it is meaningless. The solution to the problem is so clear there is no choice; so it isn't at all a problemand-answer story. It is that great rarity, an unequivocating examination of a real situation. The fact that such a situation has never exactly occurred is quite beside the point. And ever since I read that story, it has made itself a category and an aim. This too is what sf is for. I t might be interesting to see what other writers (and readers, too) have to say about their special personal monuments -- those which have been obscured by the public skyline. IF  Feature #. Perfectly harmless unless smashed #. What ballistic missiles travel in #. Certain mate of a sea vessel #. Given a chance, it will grow on you #. Turns red in a current #. Per aspera ad #. Fantasy-writer factions could use a few more #. A free drink in Mexico #. In France, you drink your cafe In one #. What some pigeons insist on doing #. Sports car #. The Atomic #. What vampires do all day #. A Roman emperor who should have listened to a soothsayer #. The inventor of dynamite #. A schooi and type of jacket #. A Spaniard cheers for a Swede #  else!" #. "Get a look at that!" #. An urgently important social event in school #. A popular vehicle m our #th state #. What Flash Gordon's ray pistol is responsible for an awful lot of #. Miss Chase, of the stage and movies #. Famous .also-ran #. First of last three words spoken to his best friend by ## Across. #. " , c'est l'amour!" #. One hundred fifty-one Romans #. Half a comic dance duo; name of a lady spy #. If you haven't got neon, argon, or radon, you can always fall back on -- #. A Chinese boat; Mister Spade's face #. You fight a toro, or milk a #. What you hate to see a good story do #. Safest locale for rocket pilot when his ship is between planets and he has no space suit #. You say werewolves have hairy faces; scientists say they are #. What the U.S. hopes to land on the moon #. Pertaining to the ear #. What a test-rocket sled runs by #. What flowers lose on the moon #. A block of salt for cattle #. Form of some alien monsters #. Evil spirit #. Crewmen on long rocket runs could play some deucey #. If heroes practice virtues, villains commit #. Measure of electrical power #. If the heroine goes to Mars, the hero goes #. A Swede yells his name at a bullfight #. What a drunken hero may get caught in #. "What's in ?" (# words) # . Man's name meaning "of the king" #. A kangaroo's legs, a rocket's engines, and a witch's broom are each, ip their own way,  # . What you better not do to a space suit on the moon #. Robin's best friend #. A southwestern tribe #. Avenues or holy people (abbr.) # . Nickname for Big Dipper; Latin stem for bears #. The man from Aberdeen says he won't #L A leading miracle fabric #. Name for specialized study of anodes #. Type of warfare young Tarzan was involved in #. What Scrooge's close friends called him IF #. Not dead nor asleep, but In-between state #. How to fly a one-man spaceship #. A delicate kind of lace #. What .Mars is covered with, mostly (# words) #. Charles Lamb's pen-name as essayist #. The unlucky spaceman managed to ## Down his spacesult, and it #. Flammable earth used for fuel #. After three days in space looking for the landing field, it was really a for sore eyes #. What incoming spaceships do on the upper atmosphere #. Word used in comparing different objects #. Our second-largest state #. A product you won't need on Inner Mercury #. The compass direction of Chicago from Albuquerque #. Beach in California #. Young girl who talked to chess pieces and playing cards #. What the villain always is, just before he gets blasted. #. Miss Negri of silent-screen days #. Units of force or power #. What some hardheads still think science-fiction is #. What SF fans feel toward those hardheads #. If "Romany Life" is about gypsies, then a gypsy must be a #. Name of a man who learned how to get into the cave of certain Arabian thieves #. Traveller between anode and cathode #. If you weigh a few oz. on Earth, you'll weigh a few on Jupiter IF  Novelette He knew a robot was only a tool to be used by men  But the big question was -- who was using who? I T he fast, silent way it crossed the room wasn't just efficiency. It was an insult or, more likely, a challenge. As if crossing rooms with out making a noise were some kind of game: Now you got a turn. Questions Controller Karl Paker, who by regulation had to rise and greet even robots a courteous three paces in front of his desk, remained squarely behind it, thoroughly seated and -- in his mind anyway -- swollen with hate. His bones, God knew, made noises enough, what with the accumulated frictions of fifty-five too-busy years. More, he limped. He wasn't going to give this thing a chance to listen and watch. The next instant he saw his mistake. You have to move to stay ahead of robots. Ahead morally, that is; physically you can't hope to as IP much as stay even. This one took and turned Paker's insult. Finding those last three steps open it took them, then seated itself on the corner of his desk. Paker couldn't breathe. Something went wrong in his throat. Pushing back his chair a little and gripping the arms he regarded his visitor -- to all outward appearance, a handsome, rather slender youth of about twenty, smooth-skinned and bright-eyed. You could tell it from the human only by its too-perfect humanity. In his mind Paker took the bottle of Earth cognac from the bottom left-hand drawer and, swinging from all the way back, christened that faintly rose right cheek good and gory. Or greasy, since that was the best it could do. But the very delicacy of its coloring somehow warned him that the three-hundred credit bottle, and not his visitor, would be the one to suffer; what he had to deal with wasn't so much cheek as it was brass. He sank back and merely glared at the drawer handle. "Well?" he said when his throat was working again. The robot gave him a youthful smile, though the thing was maybe three times his age "I am R #," it said. "However, you may call me Rob, or even Robby, if you have the appropriate personality-index. I am a human factors coordinator for this region. You are the Questions Controller and I am here at your request." "Yes," said Paker, not looking up. "Wefl." But he could face up to things, even things as humiliating as this. "Look here," he started over, now meeting the robot's eyes -- or whatever it wanted to call them. "We need help. I evaluate the questions. There seems to be only one of any promise, even if I don't like it. So I'm asking: Are there conditions under which the robot kind would agree to help us?" As soon as he was done saying it he dropped his gaze back to the left bottom drawer. Cognac might not be a club, but it would make an awfully comfortable hole to hide in. A fter all, he'd gone into questions control work some twenty-seven years ago because it seemed the one area where human beings had it over robots -- in fact, had to have it over robots to survive. Well, not survive, he thought. Robots would look after humans to that extent. Otherwise, where was his purpose, But in the present furiously competitive expansion into space, the only edge robots didn't have was in questions: Men could ask new ones, robots couldn't. And when you got the questions, the best you could do was ask the robot for help. Oh, yes. He'd need a lot of cognac to hide the taste of that. " 'We' means more humans than you," observed R #. "Me," said Paker. "The three thousand human beings left in this region. And lots more, maybe even We're in a real hole." He waited, but it was silent. Dramatic pauses never worked on machines. "We've lost two planets." He IF rose, limped to the filing cabinet by the window. Let it see the limp. Here the thing wasn't sitting on top of him anyhow. "I've got it all on tape for you, since that's the quickest way. But it might help if you heard it from a human too; tapes are computer-filtered. Out there around #C#, just seventeen light years and four months from where I'm standing, there's a nice Earth-type world, exactly the sort we've got to have if we're going to prevent..." He paused, blinked. " -- to prevent our taking over. Yes. Human policy is no secret." It wasn't. Or if it was a secret, it was an open one. If robots got the stars, as they were already getting two thirds of them, then you had no place to go. You would have to live in houses not out in the open, and when that happened you were lost. Robots were such damn good housekeepers. "Anyway, in due course we went down on the planet -- Baggins' world. Too fast, of course. There's never enough time to prepare things right, if we're going to stay ahead. And we couldn't let your kind have that world. Why, a man could almost walk around there in the raw!" H e faced the robot, which was still perched on his desk as if that were the only comfortable seat in the room. "Planets that congenial aren't easy to come by, you know. Trouble is, somebody else already lived there. An intelligent somebody." Paker thrust out his hands -- half fight, half appeal. "Maybe you can figure how we felt. There are lots of more or less intelligent animals in the universe, but until we got to Baggins' world nothing in the human class. It was like when you've been on a scout ship for a very long time, just yourself all alone, and then you make planetfall and suddenly there are other people talking too. That's how it's been with the hiiman race, except for you greasers. Well, we could talk to Bagginses, or almost, though they didn't seem quite right -- " "You mean they are not human." "Maybe something like that. Only you're not human too, and we can talk. What it was with the Bagginses, they didn't seem to have any ambition." Paker considered briefly. "We went down. I should explain they're enough to let us have the surface. Which we already had, for that matter. Anyway, there don't seem to be many of them, they're only under this small part of one continent. No ambition, like I said. Not quite right. "Well, that 'not quite right turned out to be plenty wrong. One of our teams located a fantastic vein of radioactives and sank a mine. It's not often you can mine radioactives in a habitable system. Well, I guess you could say mining in that spot was out by the treaty, but it was inevitable. They ought to have seen that. "The vein happened to be the gut of the Bagginses power system. No body knew they were that advanced! Of course, they misunderstood. Turned out they have robots too, only ones that follow orders instead of trying to steal the universe out from under your nose. They burned us off tiie planet." He made a face. "You know what would happen if I tried to play chess with you?" "I would win. Chess is no competition for us." "Yes. Well, that's how it was. They aren't better armed. As a matter of fact most of their weapons are copies of ours. But they took us, and made us look easy. Then they sent their machines out and they took us on Robinson's world too. Either they already had a stardrive and hadn't bothered to use it before, or else they worked up one like that -- " he snapped his fingers past his ear -- "so as to come after us. Two Earthweeks ago their machines hit Columbia, a strong, well-established colony of almost three thousand people, and they made that look easy too. We're no competition, as you put it." Paken went back to his desk and, robot or no, sat down, opened that bottom left-hand drawer. He hesitated, but the consequences of his last discourtesy were right there in front of him, practically bolted to the desktop. Knowing how silly it sounded he said: "I need a drink. Will you join me in one?" "Thank you, no," said R #I and, amazingly, left the desk to go sit in the chair itwas supposed to. After the first flush of relief, Paker wasn't sure this was better: It had such a hideously tidy way of sitting. When he had poured the cognac and placed the bottle carefully on the spot where his visitor had perched, simply -- as he told himself -- because that was where he wanted the bottle, he said: "I was inaccurate at one point earlier. I gave the impression that the Bagginses are in our class. But the right way to put it would be to say we're nowhere near theirs." Then he took the first sip of cognac. Now he had said it, now he had really said it all. "I cannot accept that," it said, using that unspeakable courteous voice robots always used when they were saying something that might offend you. "Animals of the sort your account suggests would not be your superiors in any meaningful way. They should be the reverse. However, I will be able to appraise their capacities more accurately after I have done the tapes. Now I can say only that if the situation is much as you've described it, we will probably decide to help." "How soon can you say?" Paker asked, a little too eagerly. "They may decide to hit here next." "Shortly. I should like to use your private bathroom, please." Paker opened his mouth, but nothing was in it to say. Cognac cost too much to spill, so he got the glass down properly, and then the shock started coming out. He began helplessly and horribly to blush. He could feel it go all the way down to his navel. "But!" he yelled, trying not to. "I mean, surely you don'tl" "I must communicate," said R #, in the same easy, courteous voice. "I prefer to do it in private and in pleasant, mathematically neat surroundings." IP TT#hile it was gone he put away   a good thirty credits' worth of cognac, but his sense of outrage burned right through the stuff. There were places robots should have absolutely no business. He felt that strongly. And he found that, try as he would to stop it, his mind insisted on showing him, like a set of smutty playing cards, pictures of that thing in his bathroom. And God alone knew what it meant by "communicate." Certainly only a robot would think it was the sort of thing you did in private -- or in his bathroom, with the door locked. For he'd heard it lock the door in still another burlesque of human modesty. "Well?" he said angrily when the door clicked again and it returned. #I stopped before reaching his desk and struck a parade rest -- a position human beings took because it was comfortable if you had to stand in one place a long time, and because, if you were human, you always had this problem of what to do with your hands. The posture infuriated him still further because neither problem could occur to a robot, ever. "Yes," it said. "You are in a hole, as you put it. We will help you." Then it said something else and he said, "What?" because he didn't quite hear. But he wasn't really asking. He was too taken up with the relief gushing through him, as if his blood had only this instant started to flow. Robots didn't lie. From an engineering point of view they coi sidered lying complicated out of all proportion to the uses it might have, and simply didn't build in the necessary circuits. So if this one said they would help -- they would. He hadn't dll this minute believed it; their business in the universe seemed to be making things hard, not easy. But they were going to help! "What?" he said again, more to hear that repeated than to hear something new. "I said, I can tell you a good deal about them." "Them?" he repeated. "I mean by 'them' what you call the Bagginses. I have just gone through the entire file on Baggins world." "That's nonsense," he said. "You can't have." "We investigated the species some three hundred Earth years ago. I will tell you about them, because it will be good for you to know." "Good?" he said. "Look here, what have you been doing in my bathroom?" "I have been communicating," said the robot stiffly. The trouble with their voices was you knew every bit of expression had been put in deliberately, by choice. But expression wasn't something you "put in." It was part of the organism's total functioning, like a yell of pain when somebody stepped on your foot, or the way blood rushed to the bruised spot. "In my bathroom?" he said. "That's outrageous!" He didn't quite know what was outrageous, but something was. T# #T , 'he Bagginses," it said, "are a A machine-dominated race. I was right, incidentally, in saying that they were in no significant way your suS eriors. The right conclusion to be rawn from the way that you were outgeneraled on Columbia and Robinson's world is that the machines you fought were controlled through subspace by a master brain back on Baggin's world. You had no chance." "What you mean is that their machines take orders from them," said Paker thickly. "Instead of going off on their own hook. That's what you mean by machine-dominated." "You have an excessively belligerent attitude," observed R #. "You should remember that under too much stimulus circuits burn out instead of operating. What I mean by saying the Bagginses are what must be called a machine-dominated race is that their civilization is oriented around machines. The Bagginses discovered about three thousand Earth years ago that their emotional needs could be entirely satisfied by directing an electric current to a nerve complex at the base of the eye. Your kind once made a similar discovery but have escaped its consequences. Their civilized development stopped. Automata do the work, but, as you observed, have not been structured to permit independent judgment. This is another indication of the Bagginses' compulsive need for security, a racial drive whose origin the investigative team could not determine." "Compulsive, hell. It just shows they're smarter than we were." "You are mistaken. Moreover, we can predict with a high order of probability that this need will lead them to seek out and destroy humankind wherever you may happen to be. We would rather not have humans eliminated from the universe; therefore we must join forces with you in this region until the Bagginses have been destroyed. Their destruction should take, with luck, no more than two Earth months." "Just like that, eh? You feel sure of yourselves, don't you?" "I am sure my feelings are what they should be," replied R #I precisely. Paker put his head on the desk, even though theother was still regarding him from that idiotic parade rest. Robots claimed to have feelings, but he intended never to believe it. There had to be limits. He sat up again, put the bottle away, slammed shut the drawer. He intended to be on his dignity now. "I don't know about that," he said. "But if you're so great on feelings, you must at least know what it feels like to be humiliated." There he hesitated, for it came to him that probably wasn't true. When would a robot be exposed to humiliation? "Anyway," he went on, "you ought to know what making a request like this does to us. We're fighting you -- or would be, if that weren't hopeless. At the least we're in a race with you'for the galaxy. We wouldn't be out here except for that, overextended and unprepared as we are. It's mostly your fault. How do you think it feels to come begging you the way I've done? You might have spared me being on my knees" IP R #I broke out of his parade rest and gestured sympathetically. "You misunderstand," he said. "Speaking your way, I do not want you or any of the human kind on his knees. I want you rather to stand on your own feet more. Thus, what you have said is absurd." Paker rose, limped around the desk "That was cruel," he said, standing in front of the thing and close. "A robot did this to me. One of your heavy models, not looking where it put its feet." "I know the story, and you have not said it accurately. MK # has large feet, requiring fifty square decimeters of surface, and when gravity came on there was no place else to put them. I also know that you could have the defective part replaced." "It's not a part. It's me " T he robot regarded him without expression, as if he hadn't spoken yet. "All right!" It was Paker's turn to sit on the desk. "But a man's entitled to some privacy. It's my bathroom." "I was communicating, as I have already told you. Subuniverse #, which you may not know about yet, as human minds are too confused to make use of it, is a cosmos consisting of abstractions or forms, the stuff of pure thought. Mind enters it in the same way a starship enters SubU #, except that one has only to think a pattern to create the realitywarp, so one does not need sunfield generators. However, one does need complete freedom to concentrate, and I prefer not to turn off my sensors around humans: That is bad manners Also, humans with derangements like yours have been known to attack exposed robots." Paker looked away. "Well?" he said. "So what are we going to do about the Bagginses? What's this two-month miracle of yours?" "Our records are three hundred years old, but a civilization such as I have described is necessarily static. The mind synthesis in which I have participated suggested that, considering the fact that these animals have not empowered their machinery with independent judgment, the vulnerable spot should be in the animals themselves." "Just the point you things would fix on." "The problem then becomes one of finding a way to deprive these animals of independent judgment. The surest way, on the basis of the information at present available, seems to be to destroy the animals entirely. They cannot make decisions if they do not exist, and without them their machines are harmless." " 'Trust a robot to state the obvious, " quoted Paker. "You are" right now up to where I am -- where we humans got, I might add, without even thinking about it. The question is, where do we go from here?" "I go to Baggins' world, if you can provide me with a probe-class ship that is small and fast enough to land there without being detected. If you cannot, then I go to Betel # where my kind are readying such a ship, and then to Baggins' world. You," it added conscientiously, "are the one to say where you go, but I can think of no reason for you to go anyplace out of the ordinary. No human needs to change his plans. I will take care of this problem." Paker stopped before saying what he wanted to. "We're involved too! I would like to know your plans so as to think about ours. We make up our own minds, you know." "Once on Baggins' world I shall try to destroy all these animals. You complained that I was stating the obvious." He clenched his hands. "Like that? You'll wander around and pull their heads off or what? You're just one robot, and these creatures by your own admission are a danger to the whole humankind. After all!" R #I was silent. "Plans that are not known cannot be anticipated," it said at last, making that deliberate, youthful smile. He felt the blood coming back into his cheeks and stood up, walked around behind the thing. He was looking out the window at the sky. It would darken and then turn somehow thin, and darken again. He felt something in him -- some moral quality -- tighten, and suddenly and agonizingly twist back on itself, the way a leg will go suddenly bent and hard with cramp. "I see," he said. Unhappily, he did. What the thing had said was right, even if having it said was intolerable. "Well, we can provide the probe-ship. Happens I own a modified bug. My plan is to go along." He hadn't planned that -- hadn't, in fact, planned anything until he said it, but now he found himself suddenly committed. It was his ship. "That's my business, I expect, just as what you intend to do is yours." R #I rose and came around and considered him. "You are old and lame and of doubtful usefulness." It was using the polite voice. Karl Paker smiled at it. "I can hold my own," he said. "One thing, I know how to disable a robot of your model. Even with its sensors on." Ill B ut disabling the thing -- even during the time when he could have done it -- wasn't the problem. The big problem was holding his own. Over the next two Earthmonths he learned how far claiming he could took him, how much that easy remark committed him to. Paker tossed another chunk of vegetation into the fire and watched the stuff try to crawl out. You would never think that messy green tangle could move unless you tried to burn it. But there it was, scrabbling wildly at the six-inch wall of earth R #I had put up to hold his fires together. Perhaps, for that matter, it couldn't move until you put it in a fire. God knew he himself had been doing things for five weeks now so far outside what he could, that in the norIF mal course he wouldn't even have tried -- all in the name of holding his own. "Robot!" he called, when the vegetation stopped struggling. R #I was sitting on a rock some twenty feet away, wearing a green sportshirt in forty degrees of frost. But its nose was red, as if with cold. Paker wondered a good deal about that. "I hear you," it said. "It's fifteen hours, Earth, time. Your two months are up." The thing regarded him. "Well, they're still kicking," said Paker, shifting around so he could reach the farther pile of vegetation with his lone hand. "We have failed. I thought that you already knew this." "I did." "Then I do not understand you. You must have been aware of the fact that I already knew it." He was too cold to laugh, but he could still make the right face to go with the kind of laughter he was thinking. "I expect I knew that too." "Then there is something wrong with you. As I have explained three times now, communication is an asymmetrical' relation with respect to the information communicated. Thus, if you -- " "I've had about enough of your communication," broke in Paker savagely. "That's one word we could do without." He threw a new lump into the fire. "It's not as if you were always saying new things yourself all the time. Oh, no." "Perhaps you need a new trench," observed the robot. "Though I dug the last one only five days ago. If you would not eat so much -- " "I eat to stay warm!" he shouted. Then he sat back, bracing himself on the plastic sheath where his right hand had been. He tried to stop jumping inside. How many times had the thing said something like that over the past week? Something that, if you could believe a robot could want to, had to be a calculated attempt to goad him on? A robot's mind didn't work by free association. If it got from the idea of communication to the idea of his trench, it got there according to a strict deductive order. In which case what were the postulates? Was the general idea to irritate hell out of him? He couldn't quite believe it had that in mind; but just in case this was possible, he was going to remain very calm. "What I mean is," he went on, to be saying something, "where do we go now? What next?" "You should die within fifteen or twenty days, but you may last a little longer. Predicting humans in this respect is difficult. When you are dead, I shall turn myself off." "After you've had the fun of seeing me go... I wish it had got us." "The hovercar machine probably had orders only to protect the young animals, as I have explained repeatedly. When we no longer endangered them, it forgot about us. Such machines cannot decide to do something on their own." "So turn yourself off." "I will not be rude." P aker considered its nose for a while, then went on. "Why do I waste my time talking to you, I wonder? Two Earthmonths ago I would have crawled through fire first." "Humans are I a n g u a g e-structured," explained R #I "You are under stress and require the consolation of jabbering. However, you have not listened to what I say since I fixed your arm." "But you say it anyhow. Why? Just so I can hear the sound of your pretty voice?" "I try to think of what I say as though I were your mother, but perhaps I make mistakes. Working with metaphors is difficult." Paker kept very still for a moment. "Some time you'll go too far," he breathed. "I shall not go so far as off this planet, in all probability," observed the robot. "Still, unlike you, I can always be switched back on." It executed a different, brotherly smile. Paker turned his back in spite of the cold. In his imagination he could see the landing party -- robots, probably -- stuffing his stiff form into a black undertaker's bag and bringing back movement to R #I by turning a switch. Of course, if they were robots they wouldn't have a black bag; but that was what he saw them using all the same. The worst part was he couldn't blame it for their failure. Not honestly. Animals, as the thing had explained once they were down and far enough away from the Hermes to be safe, were convenient to destroy not IF only because they damaged easily, He faced back to the fire, throwing but because once you killed one it in more crawly stuff. No, the plan couldn't be turned back on or its was all neat and logical, even now. parts used over. Which made sense. So logical that any good mechanical So what was the problem? You brain could work it out, as he had asked where the animals were most one good not-hand to prove. With vulnerable, and how you could go his teeth he pulled the glove off the at them so as to be sure of getting other hand, the one he still had, and them all. Logical questions, both, began to massage the rubbery cheek. The sort implicit in the information You could put that in the fire and you already had, the sort a mait might start crawling too. chine not only could ask but could But not a robot. It just switched itask better than a man. The answer self off. Once you were politely was logical too. You hit them "where dead, of course, the new animals are made." Because "I'm beginning to see why you -- as it had politely explained when things don't own more of the galaxy he told it the facts of life -- mathan you do," he called -- even chines were superior lovers; if your though R #I could hear him whislover was electric, you didn't bother per, as he perfectly well knew. "In with sex. You turned over the probspite of all your advantages, you're lem of reproduction to specialists. quitters." Paker's left cheek was going stiff. "I have explained the situation to you, but you are sloppy inside and forget things. You may use whatever mathematics you like to describe the problem, and I cancel out in every case. The Bagginses' master brain can coordinate more data than I, and it incorporates similar structures. As I cancel out, in the relevant sense I do not exist. You cannot say of something that does not exist that it is a quitter." It really meant that, Paker decided. That was the trouble with a mathematically precise language. When a robot went wrong, it went all the way. A human managed to spread out the error -- just because the language was sloppy. Like human minds; something you could never quite trust. But something that could meet change, too. As a sloppy human you were always up against something new, and had to keep your meanings loose to deal with it. So you could mean something new. You could make meanings; that was the secret of good questions. But a robot could only work over things until they fitted already established meanings, and, if that didn't work, give it up. " I still itch in the hand I don't have," he explained. "I even try to use it." "You will tell me when these attempts begin to succeed." P aker looked up. "You miss the point," he said, but despaired of making clear just what the point was. That was how it worked: You said something you didn't mean or understand even, and then you had to create a meaning for it. "I mean," he tried, "we're here and damn it, it's cold. We ought to do something." "I am still here," observed R #, "in the sense of being able to dig trenches, to lift heavy objects or to lay fires. You can do small, simple things like opening food sacks." Paker was quiet, since one thing he couldn't do any more was take out an R model. "I suppose I'll have to put some kind of gadget on that stump," he said into air. "I don't like it, but it's too unhandy without." "That is true." He glared at it. "Look here. Why don't you go away? That's something else you can do. If you went far enough away you could turn yourself off without being rude, you know." "You would freeze." It got down from the rock -- a handsome twentyyear-old whose breath didn't frost at minus forty. But it had a red nose. "Look," it said, squatting beside him and extending a right hand complete with fingernails and light brown hairs. "Your kind cannot make one so good. This is an efficient model. If you were equipped with one you would not even want to go back to the organic sort, it would seem so much less useful. For example, with this you would be able to hold together the materials for a fire while it got started well, without being burned." It flexed the fingers at him. "I would like to go away and switch myself off. I have no purpose here worthy of the name, and I am unhappy. But while I have this and you do not, you are depenr dent on me and I must remain." "Oh, unhappy," said Paker hutchIF # mg from it a few steps around the fire. "Go on!" But God knew he was dependent on it -- not just for creature comforts, but for survival. Or would be, if he had any chance of surviving. "You know," he brought out, "I may not have two good feet to stand on, but one hand is plenty to sit on." "You have made another of your nonsensical remarks," said R #I in a gloomy voice. Of course, a voice like that was calculated, but with what intention? Did he really care what its intention was? It was trying to do something to him, anyway. "What I mean is," he said, "if I'm here to die, I can do it all by myself. I don't need your help. If I could turn you off it would be in the bag and -- " and there he stopped, because he was thinking of something else now. He saw a way. "Listen!" he told it, shouting over a distance of two feet. "Think of yourself as a Baggins machine." He paused for a moment, because that was a pleasant thought. "And humankind is this green stuff you've got to hold down while it gets to burning. Now if we take away you, I -- I'm the Bagginses, I guess -- freeze to death, isn't that right?" "I do not know," said R #I in a minute. "Thinking of these three entities this way is awkward." "We should have known from the start! Of course! The thing to do is hit the machinery!" "Destroying mechanical lifeforms is poor strategy." "The brain, robot! The master brain! And, stupid, you didn't think of it!" R #I inspected the fire for a minute. Then it put its face through a complete Smile. "I almost might have predicted that you would think of such a plan," it said, when it was finished with the smile. "It could succeed, however." "And you didn't think of it," repeated Paker, who was quite warm now, even to the ends of all his toes. IV B ut after that he wasn't warm again for so long it might have been forever. They marched crosscountry for three days to reach what, on the three-hundred-year-old map in R #'s brain, looked like a good point to dig into a tunnel complex, and all that time they had no fire. Every four hours R #I halted. They would stare at each other while the stiffness sank into Paker's joints and his breathing came back to normal; then they were jogging on again. Paker didn't ask for the halts. Hadn't he said he could hold his own? But he knew R #I could have gone the whole distance without stopping, and every four hours he took the break without a word. It wasn't enough, of course; perhaps that made it easier to take. But he knew. For the rest, he depended on medicines to hold his own the little green pills that would clean his blood, let him go on, on, on, without sleep; the white pills when his balance got too shakey; the purple pills when he needed spurts of energy; the bigger white pills whose use he had forgotten. He didn't have enough, and he was counting the precious green ones again, trying to make the count come out slightly higher, when the robot said, "We will dig here," almost casually, as if it were telling him the world was a small place, wasn't it? He staggered on another thirty steps, counting helplessly. Then he got himself stopped and turned around, and then he dropped. He sat and watched the thing sink into the ground without so much as pretending he could help -- in spite of its "we." His underwear was supposedly good for fifty degrees of frost, but that wasn't true. He was brittle with cold. Was this the planet he'd claimed you could go around on in the raw? Then, without knowing how, he was somewhere in the dark leaning on a too-human shoulder and he pushed away. That he hadn't been going to do. He wanted to cry, but he couldn't do that either. It was warm again, all except his soul, and suddenly on his left he heard harsh breathing. The robot brushed by him, moving fast, and he heard a fuzzy sound and then a sharp crack ! "What was that?" he said, but couldn't control his voice and it came out only one vowel, a sort of nasal bubble. Perfect fingers gently pressed against his mouth. He had to hold in hard not to bite. They went on down. It was never possible for him to lead, but the plan was his, so he was leading in that sense. More, he was taking care of himself now, even if his bad foot came down too hard now and then. He could hold his own. After all, they'd been in the tunnels before... From time to time they passed vague little clouds of pink light along the left wall, clouds dilating and contracting regularly, like a heartbeat. Once the pink flared out as he went by and he saw a square, naked compartment, and in the far corner something -- more a mass than a shape. It changed and uttered a noise of some sort. Then he was past. Had that been the enemy? But what was the noise it made? A moan of pleasure, maybe. He had seen pictures of Bagginses: small, brown-skinned, wrinkly-looking creatures almost like elves. Miraculously close to the human. You wanted to talk to them. You could talk to them, if only a little, and there was the true miracle. In all those centuries of exploration and expansion humankind hadn't found anyone else to talk to, not counting robots. And of course you didn't count robots. But he didn't want to talk to that . T hey went down, on what seemed to him a long spiral, and there were no more pink lights. The darkness sank away for a long time, always curving a little toward his game side. The robot was leading him by the hand now, as if he were a threeyear-old. With his other thumb -- the one he didn't have any more -- stuck in his mouth, probably. IF Suddenly they were in the middle of a great hissing. Up ahead was something giant that filled up the black, coming at them. He was flung flat against the wall. Breath went out of him; the hissing rushed up to a roar all around. He was sick and desperate trying to breathe, the air pulled from his mouth. The robot held him flat. There was no room; he had to bend over. Then he was breathing and the darkness was clear again. The hissing got smaller up the way they had come; abruptly what must be a bend cut it in half. "That was a hovercar transport," explained R #, speaking, incredibly, in a normal voice, so that for an instant the darkness seemed td jump at Paker from half a dozen places. "We are close to the difficult part of our mission now. Thirtyfour meters ahead, if I have measured accurately, is the conveyor belt which that transport just left. I do not know how fast the belt moves. However, seventy kilometers distant in the direction of its movement, the belt should pass a wall on the other side of which are located the control circuits to be destroyed. The belt is the best approach, according to my map. You are tired, and you are in a comparatively safe place. I will go on from here alone." Even at five or six inches he couldn't see its face, but he suspected it was doing the boyish smile: Go suck your thumb, old man. This calls for youth -- or metal. Paker passed the wrong hand over his face; his mind lurched a little. "I can manage." He said it without expression, fighting the heaviness of his breathing. But he said nothing about holding his own. That was behind him now. "I cannot undertake to be responsible for your safety once I am on the conveyor belt. I will be busy with more important things than you." Paker closed his eyes. He let breath out hugely, even though its face might be right there. "Look here," he said. "You can never be responsible for me. Do you understand that? Never. Not for a minute. It's our battle, and I'm going on. You'd better try to understand that, too." "I will make the situation clear. I may have to do more than simply to ignore you. If I find that your presence is likely to interfere with what I must do, I will be obliged to render you inoperative." For a moment Paker just breathed. Why didn't it say "kill?" "I'll manage," he repeated, and started by it in the dark. S o they went on together. The belt was slow and he lay on his back letting the blackness slide over him and slide over him. He was sleepy. Here! Biting at his lips didn't help. Would the robot wake him or merely let him go on, riding slowly into the limbo of this hideous world? In any case he couldn't ask. A question of pride more than of a broken neck; his muscles were too sore for him to sit up. While your eyes were open you could stay awake, but how to be sure your eyes were open still? And then something had him by the shoulder and R #'s voice was at him, too close in the darkness. "In three Earth minutes I will say to you, 'Run! and when I say that you must face back the way we haye come and run as rapidly as possible." His shoulder was his own again. Paker sat up, shuddering. Seven pills remained in the hip pouch and because his fingers couldn't tell which was which he swallowed them all. When the robot shouted at him -- shoutedl -- he started to run, only to find that he was already running, leaning away from his lame side as if to leave it behind, going furiously, all but galloping. The air boomed out, again, again. Behind and over his left shoulder a sudden great jag of white broke the dark. Then something moved abruptly and the crash detonated -- inside his ears this time. He tried to shake it out, blinking hard. Behind, the darkness caved slowly into a pale green, and there was a room, long and with something like a giant starship drive for one wall. A blur went through the hole while it was still widening, and then he turned and lunged for all that light. He fell. He was on his knees at the middle of the belt arid overhead the hole passed by. Well, said something odd inside him, at least you were headed in the right direction. Then he screamed and was running again. He caught up with the hole without any trouble. When he fell again he was able to grab the edge with his single hand. For an instant he simply hung there, his heels skittering away from him helplessly. He hooked the other elbow into the opening and pulled himself toward it. Head. And shoulders. His feet found purchase and he pushed himself up and through. The floor was probably a meter or so lower than the conveyor belt, and as he fell a gout of blue-white kicked under him. Then he dropped through where it had been and slammed flat, nose first, and he was weeping and trying to breathe and rolling all at once, and around the heat swirled like heavy windswept smoke. Almost where he had fallen a young man in a flaming sports shirt crouched behind a cabinet: Robot R #. A huge hovercar filled the entrance across the room, its bumper pressed against the sides. As the robot moved from one side of the cabinet to the other a gun on top of the aircar moved too, keeping almost exact pace with its opponent; and just as the robot reached the edge that bluewhite slammed out. The air was alive with heat. Then Paker saw the thing that was most of the right wall, and that wasn't like a starship drive at all. He forgot the battle in the middle of the room. What it did look like was a giant secondary circuit for an R model. Not quite the same, but awfully close. The main difference was that where, on an R model, the secondary would have hooked into a decision-making component, this thing led to a strip of knobs and a viewplate of some kind. And before the viewplate, in IF a tiny chair, sagged a Baggins, looking a bit like soggy pudding. The way any animal looked after you hit it with an organic scrambler. But apparently it had been able to feed in the decisive order first. And what good was a scrambler against that thing at the door? Suddenly R #I went over the top of the cabinet. The gun was a little behind, and the bolt caught it in the legs. The robot spun completely around in the air and dropped back behind the cabinet with a crash that Paker felt over here, in his eyes. Above the cabinet, where its legs had been, uncoiled a little puff of gray smoke; the robot lay motionless. And who could blame it? So now came his turn. Paker played his scrambler over the aircar on the off chance it had a Baggins operator, then threw his weapon at it. No response. Slowly he stood up and he was still there, not a crash of imploding air. The gun was still fixed on the cabinet. What if it was impossible? He was the one with feet to stand on now. He bet himself that he wouldn't get three steps, and then that he wouldn't get three more. And three more. The next one would put him into the line of fire. His legs wouldn't take it, neither of them. So Paker lay down and rolled. Then he stood up, but he didn't have to bet himself any more. H e walked all the way across and he was standing over the tau node of what was, for all practical purposes, an R model. In disabling an R model you had to hook into the navel -- if you could stand to think of its having a navel -- and pull left hard with one hand, reach in with the other and twist Right here! That was about what an R model itself did, when it turned off its sensors. In effect, you wero making a closed system of the elaborate set of chemical imbalances that served a robot for thought. Only he couldn't. The thing was too big. He hadn't strength enough. But it didn't matter. He had time enough to detach the connecting lines one by one. He was jerking at a red and yellow one when the hissing stopped -- the hissing that he hadn't really heard -- and behind him the hover car sank like soft thunder to the floor. Muscles relaxed all along his back. He worked the remaining three lines free and wiped the sweat from his face and neck. His hand came away completely red. Nosebleed. Then Paker sat down and laughed. What he wanted to do was shout, "I'm king of the mountain!" He hadn't said that in maybe fortyfive Earth years; but he hadn't felt it in about that long either. And now he was horribly tired -- even if he was king of the mountain. So happily, he only thought about how funny it would be for a man his age to say something as young and as vainglorious as that, no matter what he might feel. Happily he did no more, because while he was still laughing a young voice said: "If you can help me up to my knees and over to that hovercar, and if it has independent controls. we should try to finish this job promptly. I have been in communication with my people, but we will have to secure our advantage for the next seven Earth weeks." And, looking over, he saw R #I modestly take its finger from its navel. # #T ook here," said Paker, sham-L bling over to the haphazard wheelchair they had constructed for R #, "I can face up to it when I've been wrong. Or I can try, anyhow. But emotions ! I still can't swallow that." He waved his hand before it uncertainly, and sat down on the bumper of the hovercar. One of the thousand things he had learned these four Earth months was that he shrugged with his hands rather than his shoulders. Trying to do it with one hand was like hopping when you wanted to run. A bad feeling. He looked at the sky with its ridiculous green sun, then back at R # f. There was a streak of rust over its right eyebrow that made the thing's face, for Paker, immensely more bearable, almost nice in fact. What he wanted to say was, "I would respect you if you were the kind of thing it is possible to respect." But he couldn't say that. Nor was it quite right, either. But there was a need to say it, and the need had been with him and stronger every day since they worked their way out of that monsterwarren, always in his mouth, and making him say altogether too many other things. So he went on talking, when what he really needed was a good slug of cognac. R #I continued to regard him silently. This was apparently one of its days for not speaking unless you put everything to it in the form of a question. "I mean," he tried, "why don't you come back and help man?" Which wasn't what he meant at all. "You should not ask that after your exposure to Baggins culture. When we discovered this world three hundred Earth years ago, we decided to leave it alone so that your kind could see what happens when mechanical lifeforms and animals cooperate. You disappoint me, Questions Controller." He was quiet for a moment because this was news. After all their conversations on Baggins' world the thing still withheld information, waiting for him to find the right question. He, God knew, hadn't any secrets left! He looked at the sky again, then asked: "Well? What happens?" "Machines dominate." "But if we take precautions? We're pretty shrewd, you know." "Your kind cannot well take more precautions than did the Bagginses." Another reminder that he'd run no real danger crossing that hourslong room, what with that giant brain not having enough discretion to tell a nosebleed from a friend, as long as the nosebleed was walking around in a friendly way? He'd heard too much about that six Earth weeks ago. He wasn't so sure, either. Or it might just mean what it said: you IF couldn't take more precautions, not possibly. And this was true. Paker made a vague guttural noise. Let it figure out whether he was agreeing or not. He tried the other side: "General idea is, you're doing your best to dominate right now." "Such an idea is absurd. I am too polite to suppose that you could entertain it." "But suppose I do?" The radio R #I had tricked together began to gabble in the hovercar cabin, and he limped three steps over and leaned into the door and pushed on the key. "Paker here," he said, amazed at the everyday sound of his voice. "I am sending." Then he moved the pointer to where a long, nervous tone began to trickle from the set and weighed down the key with a rock ready there for the purpose. Standing erect he looked to the north where a ship was likely to come in. But he couldn't see the fire trail, if there was one. He went back to his seat on the bumper. "Not long now. Well? Suppose I do? What are you up to if you're not trying to beat us?" "I am structured against supposing a thing so impolite." "I've noticed you can get around that kind of structure when it suits you to." It was silent. But wasn't the answer plain enough, once you looked at robots sympathetically? Once you realized there could be that particular question. Once you'd gone through what he had. "You're pushing us," he said. "The whole business of galactic expansion, the whole faked-out competition, is just a thing you've set up to keep us going. Not to let us get any rest, ever." "Animals tend to exaggerate their need for rest," agreed R #. "Just like you pushed me. You made us camp ten degree? of latitude farther north than necessary. Why? Because you figured the cold would keep me working. That's why you were riding me all the time, too. It wasn't really bad feeling." Paker rose, creaking. "Also, I know that when you got it in the legs that was calculated. You were still pushing  #I me. R #I said nothing and he walked on by it and stood looking out toward a streak of purple forest and above it the open sky. If you were a made thing, then your reason for being was somewhere outside you -- in those others, your creators. You existed to serve them. And in yourself you were nothing. You had to have them. You couldn't originate a purpose -- not on the fundamental level -- any more than you could originate a new question. What you could do, though, was use what was in you to the limit. "Wasn't this it?" he went on. "Somewhere back when you decided we were going soft, like the Bagginses. The problem was, we were alone out in space. No contest. Nobody ever came up to our mark, and probably we were starting not to come up to it too -- leaning on you too much for own good. So you decided the best way to serve us was to set up some hard competition." How long had he known this? Well, for a long time and only just this moment, both. "To get us back on our feet." He came around to where R #I could see him. "I guess what I want to say is -- thank God you were able to decide." Was he going to blush now, of all damned things? "You asked me earlier about my emotions," said the robot. " 'Feelings would be the better word. I think I can make you understand them." "I want to do that.' "You must not think of a feeling as something that happens inside you. Without an environment you would never feel anything. A feeling is, in essence, the relation your structure has to your environment." "You fit or you don't," he agreed, but he was not sure he really understood. "Perhaps that is correct. But I am explaining my feelings. My ideal environment is a mathematical one similar to subuniverse #, starting with self-evident axioms and working itself out into a closed system of a high order of complexity. In such an environment I would be perfectly happy." Paker considered. "And in the environment containing human beings?" he asked.  R #I smiled carefully. "Well, then, as you would say. I hate you. I also hate all your kind."  ' A gripping new novel of the far future Winner of the # "Best Story " Award for The Dragon Masters Enthralling novella by Fritz Leiber Philip K. Dick Damon Knight Willy Ley December issue on sale now at all newsstands -- or send #l to Galaxy, #I Hudson Street, New York City #. IP # Short Star I " I v"" i mi  Never play poker with a worm -- especially when it's an alien I T he leader worm, known in the Earth translation as The Hell Of A Long One -- he was three me ters long and approximately onehalf-meter thick -- wriggled happily on his white porcelain throne. f What beautiful porcelain we shall have with the calcined bones of these two Earthmen, Cards Wartson and Novice Howard!" The other three worms were also overjoyed, as well as sycophantic. "Such lovely, lovely porcelain!" they chanted, wriggling in time. Cards Wartson and Novice "Nosey" Howard, lying guarded on the floor, saw objections to the plan. Cards reminded the worms, "You can just quit wriggling for joy now. You can't use our bones, because we've still got us wrapped around them!" "That can be remedied," crooned the leader. "And it should be, when Earthmen come around we Martians and want to play poker, and then can't pay off when they lose." The other worms tittered delightedly. "You gave me a fast shuffle with those thousand legs of yours," complained Cards. "Those cards whizzed around in a circle so fast I couldn't follow them at all." "Yes, but he'd have won anyway, with you always trying to fill those inside straights," interjected Nosey critically. Then he looked at his captors. "But  don't owe you worms anything. I wasn't even playing cards with you." "No," retorted The Hell Of A Long One, "you were just snooping around where you had no business to be. Probably prying into our porcelain making secrets. And you upset a cabinet of my clay tablets, breaking half of them." "I can't help it if you don't have paper on this planet," shrugged How ard. "We'd trade you paper if you wanted it. When you make everything out of sand and dirt it's bound to be brittle." "Especially when clumsy spies come around," leered the leader, once again exciting the merriment of the other worms. "As art dealers, we of course are interested in your porcelain art objects," replied Howard stiffly, trying to cover his idle snooping with a little dignity. "Anyway interrupted Wartson, "what ever makes you want to put bone ash in your porcelain paste? You'll just come out with medium hard paste. There surely isn't any sale for anything but hard-paste porcelain -- why, this medium-paste stuff isn't worth the freight to Earth." "Bone ash is so rare on this planet," explained The Hell Of A Long One dreamily. "We worms have no bones, nor have any of the other fauna on the planet. Only fossils remain to us." "But still," Wartson said in disgust, "soft paste is soft paste." "Ah, but the new pastels! The new, delicate shades we shall discover!" breathed the leader worm ecstatically. "Who would want to sell beauty such as that?" Wartson and Howard could see they weren't going to talk the monster out of it. "Well, let's deal another hand," said Cards resignedly, reaching for the deck. "Double or nothing, what do you say?" I t had all begun earlier in the day, when the four art dealers drove down the dried-up canal in their jointly owned space car toward Erlanger, the home village of The Hell Of A Long One. They had had premonitions -- from long experience -- of the disasters to come. Jock Hickerson was driving, and he gave the first admonition. "Cards," he rasped, "quit trying to beat these natives at poker!" "Now you know that with a reasonable amount of luck -- " "Which you haven't had any of the last twenty years!" "I got the old finesse, anyway," said Cards proudly. "Sure you have!" flung back Jock. "You fill those inside straights of yours one out of every # times!" "I wish you could miss banging up the flaps of this space car that often," retorted Cards. "I don't know what you're talking about," said Jock loftily. "Just stop this can for a minute and I'll point out its scars to you!" IF returned Cards. "I swear, I don't know how she holds air out in space any more. Can't you keep away from these stone canal walls?" "I have to dodge the sand dunes." The other art dealer member of the car pool, a half-breed Indian named Teepee McGuzzle interposed sadly, "This sure is a dry place." "I hope those worms haven't got anything to make it wetter for you either," said Howard. "All we need is to have you on another roaring toot." "You can't roar when you toot," pointed out Teepee with some justification. "You make a mighty fine try at it," said Jock. "It was dirty of you fellows to thieve away my grog at the space port," mourned Teepee. "People are so undercover any more that a fellow doesn't know what to think. Twenty years ago if people wanted to be dishonest they did it out in the open, where you could see them. Nowadays people are so sneaky you can hardly tell what they are doing -- even if you watch them." "You should have stayed on the reservation," advised Cards. "If I had stayed on the Seminole reservation we wouldn't have this space car pool and be saving oodles of travel expense, because I'm the one who got the idea in the first place," said Teepee. "Here's the town we're looking for -- Erlanger," interjected Howard as a hundred half-oval, white porcelain structures loomed up in the early morning dust. A few minutes later they were conferring with The Hell Of A Long One -- or rather, Cards was. Ignoring his business as a porcelain art dealer, he drew a deck of cards from his pocket and proceeded to explain the principles of stud poker to the worm. The other art dealers were unable to get in a word. Novice Howard wandered into another room of the ovular structure and snooped where he did not belong. Teepee went hunting for alcohol. Jock dozed in a corner. T he two disasters happened together. Just as Cards Wartson got to owing far more than he could pay, the worms heard a crash in the next room. Rushing in, they discovered the broken clay records. Jock awoke at Teepee's urgent nudging. "Come on, we gotta get outa here!" "What's going on?" "Cards owes them a pot of money and Nosey broke something. They are going to kill both of them! Let's get out of here before they grab us!" "Why should they grab us? We haven't done anything." "Wait until they find out I drank up all their moss squeezing!" "Good God!" said Jock, running for the door. The two men did not stop running until they were safely locked in the space car. "Well, let's get back to the space port," urged Teepee when they had got their breath. "What for?" asked Jock, surprised. "To get some weapons. Rescue Cards and Nosey." "We don't need any weapons at all to whip those monsters." "I'm not wrestling with any threemeter worms," Teepee said decisively"Me either. So here's what we're going to do. We'll crash into the side of the building, on the side the worms are on, and before the worms get over the surprise we'll grab up Cards and Nosey and be on our way." "Don't you think maybe those porcelain walls are too thick?" objected Teepee. "Maybe we'll just tear up our ship." "Not if we hit her hard enough! Let's just slide back the plastic top now, so we'll be ready for a fast grab when we crash in!" "Let her rip!" said Teepee, drunkenly sliding back the greenhouse. They embarked upon the crazy scheme, backing off a hundred meters and then ramming the building at the vehicle's top ground speed. However, the space sedan, instead of breaking into the white porcelain, ran up the slick side of the building. Just as it arrived at a large ventilator hole in the top of the oval structure, it flipped over, and the two men tumbled down into the waiting grasp of the monsters. Teepee was the first to get to his feet. "There's just one little old thing I want to say," he declared, weaving a little, "and that is, I'm so glad to be here!" "I am glad you enjoy our company," returned The Hell Of A Long One. "It's not that," said Teepee. "It's just that I want to confess. If there's anything I can't stand, it's an undercover thief." "Kindly continue." "I drank up your moss squeezings," Teepee said humbly. "Stole our nectar!" "Drank every drop." "You'll catch it now! More calcined bones!" "I suppose so. That fermented spinach was the lousiest nectar I ever drank, too. Sure wasn't worth what I'm going to pay for it." Nosey Howard felt the urge too. "I also want to confess. When I broke your clay plates I was really snooping into your sex lives. I thought there might be some dirty jokes on them." "Dirty jokes?" the H. A. Long One asked, mystified. "You know. Slightly abnormal sex practices." "I can't imagine what you mean." "Well, on Earth for instance, a male and female after consorting for two or three evenings without mating may -- " He whispered busily. "You mean they may not mate the instant they sight each other?" asked The Hell Of A Long One, as he and his fellow monsters burst into frenzied fits of laughter. "So that's what dirty jokes are! No wonder you go to such extreme lengths to get new ones. Tell us more dirty jokes." "Well," said Nosey Howard, riding high, "there was this old maid -- I mean this female -- who never did -- " "Never did! Stop it, you are excruciating! I can't stand it!" gasped the worm, writhing his thousand legs together in merriment "She never did!" IF D o you have to keep scraping this can against the sides of the canal?" complained Wartson as the foursome made their way down the canal, weaving around the sand dunes in their battered space car. "You're going to break this whole case of porcelain figurines. "That's the thanks I get for getting us out of that mess," Jock said complacently as he recklessly whizzed from one side to the other of the stone-walled throughway. "Yes, you were a big help," answered Nosey Howard caustically. He tenderly cradled his armload of Martian clay tablets. "Instead of going to the spaceport for weapons, you dump your no-good selves right back in there again!  was the one who got them back in good humor." He added with pride, "Wait until they get that Emily Post book I promised them; they'll tear themselves apart laughing!" "How about that Everglades moonshine I promised them?" queried Teepee McGuzzle, waving a souvenir nectar pot. "It'll turn that yellow fuzz of theirs . a mildew green!" "They'll never see another poker hand like the one I wound up wit! though," said Cards Wartson cunningly. "Instead of watching me, they were watching you two turr bling down through the hole in the ceiling. First time I ever drew three cards to an inside straight flush!" In Our Next Issue--The funniest, fastest-moving Retief story yet by Keith Laumer by Robert F. Young by Poul Anderson IP  Novelette You've read Poul Anderson stories before -- but you've never read a Poul Anderson story like this one I T hat morning, as he carefully shaved his head until it glistened, Aaron Tozzo pondered a vision too unfortunate to be endured.He saw in his mind fifteen convicts from Nachbaren Slager, each man only one inch high, in a ship the size of a child's balloon. The ship, traveling at almost the speed of light, continued. on forever, with the men aboard neither knowing nor caring what became of them. The worst part of the vision was just that in all probability it was true. He dried his head, rubbed oil into his skin, then touched the button within his throat. When contact with the Bureau switchboard had been established, Tozzo said, "I admit we can do nothing to get those fifteen men back, but at least we can refuse to send any more." His comment, recorded by the switchboard, was passed on to his co-workers. They all agreed; he listened to their voices chiming in as he put on his smock, slippers and overcoat. Obviously, the flight had been an error; even the public knew that now. But -- "But we're going on," Edwin Fermeti, Tozzo's superior, said above the clamor. "We've already got the volunteers." "Also from Nachbaren Slager?" Tozzo asked. Naturally the prisoners there would volunteer; their lifespan at the camp was no more than five or six years. And if this flight to Proxima were successful, the men aboard would obtain their freedom. They would not have to return to any of the five inhabited planets within the Sol System. "Where does it matter where they originate?" Fermeti said smoothly. Tozzo said, "Our effort should be directed toward improving the U.S. Department of Penology, instead of trying to reach other stars." He had a sudden urge to resign his position with the Emigration Bureau and go into politics as a reform candidate. Later, as he sat at the breakfast table, his wife patted him sympathetically on the arm. "Aaron, you haven't been able to solve it yet, have you?" "No," he admitted shortly. "And now I don't even care." He did not tell her about the other ship loads of convicts which had fruitlessly been expended; it was forbidden to discuss that with anyone not employed by a department of the Government. "Could they be re-entering on their own?" "No. Because mass was lost here, in the Sol System. To re-enter they have to obtain equal mass back, to replace it. That's the whole point." Exasperated, he sipped his tea and ignored her. Women, he thought. Attractive but not bright. "They need mass back," he repeated. "Which would be fine if they were making a round trip, I suppose. But this is? an attempt to colonize; it's not a guided tour that returns to its point of origin." "How long does it take them to reach Proxima?" Leonore asked. "All reduced like that, to an inch high." "About four years." Her eyes grew large. "That's marvelous." Grumbling at her, Tozzo pushed his chair back from the table and rose. I wish they'd take her, he said to himself, since she imagines it's so marvelous. But Leonore would be too smart to volunteer. Leonore said softly, "Then I was right. The Bureau has sent people. You as much as admitted it just now." Flushing, Tozzo said, "Don't tell anybody; none of your female friends especially. Or it's my job." He glared at her. On that hostile note, he set off for the Bureau. A s Tozzo unlocked his office door, Edwin Fermeti hailed him. "You think Donald Nils is somewhere on a planet circling Proxima at this very moment?" Nils was a notorious murderer who had volunteered for one of the Bureau's flights. "I wonder -- maybe he's carrying around a lump of sugar five times his size." "Not really very funny," Tozzo said. Fermeti shrugged. "Just hoping to relieve the pessimism. I think we're all getting discouraged." He followed Tozzo into his office. "Maybe we should volunteer ourselves IF for the next flight." It sounded almost as if he meant it, and Tozzo glanced quickly at him. "Joke," Fermeti said. "One more flight," Tozzo said, "and if it fails, I resign." "I'll tell you something," Fermeti said. "We have a new tack." Now Tozzo's co-worker Craig Gilly had come sauntering up. To the two men, Fermeti said, "We're going to try using pre-cogs in obtaining our formula for re-entry." His eyes flickered as he saw their reaction. Astonished, Gilly said, "But all the pre-cogs are dead. Destroyed by Presidential order twenty years ago." Tozzo, impressed, said, "He's going to dip back into the past to obtain a pre-cog. Isn't that right, Fermeti?" "We will, yes," his superior said, nodding. "Back to the golden age of pre-cognition. The twentieth century." For a moment Tozzo was puzzled. And then he remembered. During the first half of the twentieth century so many pre-cogs -- people with the ability to read the future -- had come into existence that an organized guild had been formed with branches in Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Pennsylvania. This group of precogs, all knowing one another, had put out a number of periodicals which had flourished for several decades. Boldly and openly, the members of the pre-cog guild had proclaimed in their writings their knowledge of the future. And yet -- as a whole, their society had paid littk attention to them. Tozzo said slowly, "Let me get this straight. You mean you're going to make use of the Department of Archaeology's time-dredges to scoop up a famous pre-cog of the past?" Nodding, Fermeti said, "And bring him here to help us, yes." "But how can he help us? He would have no knowledge of our future, only of his own." Fermeti said, "The Library of Congress has already given us access to its virtually complete collection of pre-cog journals of the twentieth century." He smiled crookedly at Tozzo and Gilly, obviously enjoying the situation. "It's my hope -- and my expectation -- that among this great body of writings we will find an article specifically dealing with our re-entry problem. The chances, statistically speaking, are quite good... they wrote about innumerable topics of future civilization, as you know." After a pause, Gilly said, "Very clever. I think your idea may solve our problem. Speed-of-light travel to other star systems may yet become a possibility." Sourly, Tozzo said, "Hopefully, before we run out of convicts." But he, too, liked his superior's idea. And, in addition, he looked forward to seeing face to face one of the famous twentieth century pre-cogs. Theirs had been one brief, glorious period -- sadly, long since ended. Or not so brief, if one dated it as starting with Jonathan Swift, rather than with H. G. Wells. Swift had written of the two moons of Mars and their unusual orbital characteristics years before telescopes had proved their existence. And so today there was a tendency in the textbooks to include him. II I t took the computers at the Library of Congress only a short while to scan the brittle, yellowed volumes, article by article, and to select the sole contribution dealing with deprivation of mass and restoration as the modus operandi of interstellar space travel. Einstein's formula that as an object increased its velocity its mass increased proportionally had been so fully accepted, so completely unquestioned, that no one in the twentieth century had paid any attention to the particular article, which had been put in print in August of # in a pre-cog journal called If. In Fermeti's office, Tozzo sat beside his superior as the two of them pored over the photographic reproduction of the journal. The article was titled Night Flight, and it ran only a few thousand words. Both men read it avidly, neither speaking until they had finished. "Well?" Fermeti said, when they had come to the end. Tozzo said, "No doubt of it. That's our Project, all right. A lot is garbled; for instance he calls the Emigration Bureau 'Outward, Incorporated,' and believes it to be a private commercial firm." He referred to the text. "It's really uncanny, though. You're obviously this character, Edmond Fletcher; the names are similar but still a little off, as is everything else. And I'm Alison Torelli." He shook his head admiringly. "Those pre-cogs... having a mental image of the future that was always askew and yet in the main -- n "In the main correct," Fermeti finished. "Yes, I agree. This Night Flight article definitely deals with us and the Bureau's Project... herein called Waterspider, because it has to be done in one great leap. Good lord, that would have been a perfect name, had we thought of it. Maybe we can still call it that." Tozzo said slowly, "But the precog who wrote Night Flight... in no place does he actually give the formula for mass-restoration or even for mass-deprivation. He just simply says that 'we have it.' " Taking the reproduction of the journal, he read aloud from the article: Difficulty in restoring mass to the ship and its passengers at the termination of the flight had proved a stumbling block for Torelli and his team of researchers and yet they had at last proved successful. After the fateful implosion of the Sea Scout, the initial ship to -- "And that's all," Tozzo said. "So what good does it do us? Yes, this pre-cog experienced our present situation a hundred years ago -- but he left out the technical details " There was silence. At last Fermeti said thoughtfully, "That doesn't mean he didn't know the technical data. We know today that the others in his guild were very often trained scientists." He examined the biographical report. "Yes, IF while not actually using his pre-cog ability he worked as a chicken-fat analyst for the University of California." "Do you still intend to use the time-dredge to bring him up to the present?" Fermeti nodded. "I only wish the dredge worked both ways. If it could be used with the future, not...the past, we could avoid having to jeopardize the safety of this precog -- " He glanced down at the article. "This Poul Anderson." Chilled, Tozzo said, "What hazard is there?" "We may not be able to return him to his own time. Or -- " Fermeti paused. "We might lose part of him along the way, wind up with only half of him. The dredge has bisected many objects before." "And this man isn't a convict at Nachbaren Slager," Tozzo said. "So you don't have that rationale to fall back on." Fermeti said suddenly, "We'll do it properly. We'll reduce the jeopardy by sending a team of men back to that time, back to #. They can apprehend this Poul Anderson and see that all of him gets into the time-dredge, not merely the top half or the left side." So it had been decided. The Department of Archaeology's timedredge would go back to the world of # and pick up the pre-cog Poul Anderson; there was nothing further to discuss. R esearch conducted by the U. S. Department of Archaeology showed that in September of # Poul Anderson had been living hi Berkeley, California, on Grove Street. In that month he had attended a top-level meeting of pre-cogs from all over the United States at the Sir Francis Drake Hotel in San Francisco. It was probable that there, in that meeting, basic policy for the next year had been worked out, with Anderson, and other experts, participating. "It's really very simple," Fermeti explained to Tozzo and Gilly. "A pair of men will go back. They will be provided with forged identification showing them to be part of the nation-wide pre-cog organization... squares of cellophane-enclosed paper which are pinned to the coat lapel. Naturally, they will be wearing twentieth century garments. They will locate Poul Anderson, single him out and draw him off to one side." "And tell him what?" Tozzo said skeptically. "That they represent an unlicensed amateur pre-cog organization in Battlecreek, Michigan, and that they have constructed an amusing vehicle built to resemble a time-travel dredge of the future. They will ask Mr. Anderson, who was actually quite famous in his time, to pose by their humbug dredge, and then they will ask for a shot of him within. Our research shows that according to his contemporaries, Anderson was mild and easy-going and also that at these yearly top-strategy assemblies he often became convivial enough to enter into the mood of optimism generated by his fellow pre-cogs." Tozzo said, "You mean he sniffed what they called 'airplane dope? He was a 'glue-sniffer? " With a faint smile, Fermeti said, "Hardly. That was a mania among adolescents and did not become widespread in fact until a decade later. No, I am speaking about imbibing alcohol." "I see," Tozzo said, nodding. Fermeti continued, "In the area of difficulties, we must cope with the fact that at this top-secret session, Anderson brought along his wife Karen, dressed as a Maid of Venus in gleaming breast-cups, short skirt and helmet, and that he also brought their new-born daughter Astrid. Anderson himself did not wear any disguise for purposes of concealing his identity. He had no anxieties, being a quite stable person, as were most twentieth century pre-cogs. "However, during the discussion periods between formal sessions, the pre-cogs, minus their wives, circulating about, playing poker and arguing, some of them it is said stoning one another -- " "Stoning?" "Or, as it was put, becoming stoned. In any case, they gathered in small groups in the antechambers of the hotel, and it is at such an occasion that we expect to nab him. In the general hubbub his disappearance would not be noted. We would expect to return him to that exact time, or at least no more than a few hours later or earlier... preferably not earlier because two Poul Andersons at the meeting might prove awkward. Tozzo, impressed, said, "Sounds foolproof. "I'm glad you like it," Fermeti said tartly, "because you will be one of the team sent. Pleased, Tozzo said, "Then I had better get started learning the details of life in the mid twentieth century. He picked up another issue of If. This one, May of #, had interested him as soon as he had seen it. Of course, this issue would not be known yet to the people of #... but eventually they would see it. And once having seen it they would never forget it... Ray Bradbury's first textbook to be serialized, he realized as he examined the journal. The Fisher of Men , it was called, and in it the great Los Angeles pre-cog had anticipated the ghastly Gutmanist political revolution which was to sweep the inner planets. Bradbury had warned against Gutman, but the warning had gone -- of course -- unheeded. Now Gutman was dead and the fanatical supporters had dwindled to the status of random terrorists. But had the world listened to Bradbury -- "Why the frown? Fermeti asked him. "Don't you want to go?" "Yes, Tozzo said thoughtfully. "But it's a terrible responsibility. These are no ordinary men. "That is certainly the truth,' Fermeti said, nodding. Ill T wenty-four hours later, Aaron Tozzo stood surveying himself in his mid twentieth century clothing and wondering if Anderson would be deceived, if he actually could be duped into entering the dredge. IP The costume certainly was perfection itself. Tozzo had even been equipped with the customary waistlength beard and handlebar mustache so 'popular circa # in the United States. And he wore a wig. Wigs, as everyone knew, had at that time swept the United States as the fashion note par excellence; men and women both had worn huge powdered perukes of bright colors, reds and greens and blues and of course dignified grays. It was one of the most amusing occurrences of the twentieth century. Tozzo's wig, a bright red, pleased him. Authentic, it had come from the Los Angeles Museum of Cultural History, and the curator had vouched for it being a man's, not a woman's. So the fewest possible chances of detection were being taken. Little risk existed that they would be detected as members of another, future culture entirely. And yet Tozzo was still uneasy. However, the plan had been arranged; now it was time to go. With Gilly, the other member selected, Tozzo entered the time-dredge and seated himself at the controls. The Department of Archaeology had provided a full instruction manual, which lay open before him. As soon as Gilly had locked the hatch, Tozzo took the bull by the horns (a twentieth century expression) and started up the dredge. Dials registered. They were spinning backward into time, back to # and the San Francisco Precog Congress. Beside him, Gilly practiced mid twentieth century phrases from a reference volume. "Diz muz be da blace..." Gilly cleared his throat. "Kilroy was here," he murmured. "Wha hoppen? Like man, let's cut out; this ball's a drag." He shook his "head. "I can't grasp the exact sense of these phrases," he apologized to Tozzo. "Twenty-three skidoo." Now a red light glowed; the dredge was about to conclude its journey. A moment later its turbines halted. They had come to rest on the sidewalk outside the Sir Francis Drake Hotel in downtown San Francisco. On all sides, people in quaint archaic costumes dragged along on foot. And, Tozzo saw, there were no monorails; all the visible traffic was surface-bound. What a congestion, he thought, as he watched the automobiles and buses moving inch by inch along the packed streets. An official in blue waved traffic ahead as best he could, but the entire enterprise, Tozzo could see, was an abysmal failure. "Time for phase two," Gilly said. But he, too, was gaping at the stalled surface vehicles. "Good grief," he said, "look at the incredibly short skirts of the women; why, the knees are virtually exposed. Why don't the women die of whisk virus?" "I don't know," Tozzo said, "but I do know we've got to get into the Sir Francis Drake Hotel." Carefully, they opened the port of the time-dredge and stepped out. And then Tozzo realized something. There had been anerror. Already. The men of this decade were cleanshaven. "Gilly," he said rapidly, "we've got to shed our beards and mustaches." In an instant he had pulled Gilly's off, leaving his bare face exposed. But the wig; that was correct. All the men visible wore headdress of some type; Tozzo saw few if any bald men. The women, too had luxurious wigs... or were they wigs? Could they perhaps be natural hair? In any case, both he and Gilly now would pass. Into the Sir Francis Drake, he said to himself, leading Gilly along. T hey darted lithely across the sidewalk -- it was amazing how slowly the people of this time-period walked -- and into the inexpressibly old-fashioned lobby of the hotel. Like a museum, Tozzo thought as he glanced about him. I wish we could linger... but they could not. "How's our identification?" Gilly said nervously. "Is it passing inspection?" The business with the facehair had upset him. On each of their lapels they carried the expertly made false identification. It worked. Presently they found themselves ascending by a lift, or rather elevator, to the correct floor. The elevator let them off in a crowded foyer. Men, all clean-shaven, with wigs or natural hair, stood in small clusters everywhere, laughing and talking. And a number of attractive women, some of them in garments called leotards, which were skin-tight, loitered about smilingly. Even though the styles of the times required their breasts to be covered, they were a sight to see. Sotto voce, Gilly said, "I am stunned. In this room are some of the -- " "I know," Tozzo murmured. Their Project could wait, at least a little while. Here was an unbelievably golden opportunity to see these precogs, actually to talk to them and listen to them... Here came a tall, handsome man in a dark suit that sparkled with tiny specks of some unnatural material, some variety of synthetic. The man wore glasses and his hair, everything about him, had a tanned, dark look. The name on his identification... Tozzo peered. The tall, good-looking man was A. E. Van Vogt. "Say," another individual, perhaps a pre-cog enthusiast, was saying to Van Vogt, stopping him. "I read both versions of your World of Null A and I still didn't quite get that about it being him; you know, at the end. Could you explain that part to me? And also when they started into the tree and then just -- " Van Vogt halted. A soft smile appeared on his face and he said, "Well, I'll tell you a secret. I start out with a plot and then the plot sort of folds up. So then I have to have another plot to finish the rest of the story." Going over to listen, Tozzo felt something magnetic about Van Vogt. He was so tall, so spiritual. Yes, Tozzo said to himself; that was the word, a healing spirituality. There was a quality of innate goodness which emanated from him. All at once Van Vogt said, "There goes a man with my pants." And, IF without a further word to die enthusiast, stalked off and disappeared into the crowd. Tozzo's head swam. To actually have seen and heard A. E. Van Vogt -- "Look," Gilly was saying, plucking at his sleeve. "That enormous, genial-looking man seated over there; that's Howard Browne, who edited the pre-cog journal Amazing at this time-period." "I have to catch a plane," Howard Browne was saying to anyone who would listen to him. He glanced about him in worried anxiety, despite his almost physical geniality. "I wonder," Gilly said, "if Doctor Asimov is here." 'll#'e can ask, Tozzo decided. He   made his way over to one of the young women wearing a blonde clearly in the argot of the times. "Who's to know?" the girl said. "Is he here, miss?" "Naw," the girl said. Gilly again plucked at Tozzo's sleeve. "We must find Poul Anderson, remember? Enjoyable as it is to talk to this girl -- " "I'm inquiring about Asimov," Tozzo said brusquely. After all, Isaac Asimov had been founder of the entire twenty-first century positronic robot industry. How could he not be here? A burly outdoorish man strode by them, and Tozzo saw that this was Jack Vance. Vance, he decided, looked more like a big game hunter than anything else... we must beware of him, Tozzo decided. If we got into any altercation Vance could take care of us easily. He noticed now that Gilly was talking to the blonde-wigged girl man whose paper on parallel time is still at the very forefront of theoretical studies; isn't he -- " "I dunno," the girl said, in a bored tone of voice. A group had gathered about a figure opposite them; the central person whom everybody was listening to was saying, "... all right, if like Howard Browne you prefer air travel, fine. But I say it's risky. I don't fly. In fact even riding in a car is dangerous. I generally lie down in the back." The man wore a short-cropped wig and a bow tie; he had a round, pleasant face but his eyes were intense. It was Ray Bradbury, and Tozzo started toward him at once. "Stop!" Gilly whispered angrily. "Remember what we came for." And, past Bradbury, seated at the bar, Tozzo saw an older, care-weathered man in a brown suit wearing small glasses and sipping a drink. He recognized the man from drawings in early Gernsback publications; it was the fabulously unique pre-cog from the New Mexico re"I thought Legion of Time was the finest novel-length science-fiction work I ever read," an individual, evidently another pre-cog enthusiast, "That was originally going to be it grew. Yes, I liked that one, too." Meanwhile Gilly had wandered on, into an adjoining room. He found at a tabic, two women and a man in deep conversation. One of the women, dark-haired and handsome, with bare shoulders, was -- according to her identification plate -- Evelyn Paige. The taller women he discovered was the renowned Margaret St. Clair, and Gilly at once said: "Mrs. St. Clair, your article entitled The Scarlet Hexapod in the September # If was one of the finest -- " And then he broke off. Because Margaret St. Clair had not written that yet. Knew in fact nothing about it. Flushing with nervousness, Gilly backed away. "Sorry," he murmured. "Excuse me; I became confused." Raising an eyebrow, Margaret St. Clair said, "In the September # issue, you say? What are you, a man from the future?" "Droll," Evelyn Paige said, "but let's continue." She gave Gilly a hard stare from her black eyes. "Now Bob, as I understand what you're saying -- " She addressed the man opposite her, and Gilly saw now to his delight that the dire-looking cadaverous individual was none other than Robert Bloch. Gilly said, "Mr. Bloch, your article in Galaxy : Sabbatical , was -- " "You've got the wrong person, my friend," Robert Bloch said. "I never wrote any piece entitled Sabbatical" Good lord, Gilly realized. I did it again; Sabbatical is another work which has not been written yet. I had better get away from here. He moved back toward Tozzo... and found him standing rigidly. Tozzo said, "I've found Anderson." At once, Gilly turned, also rigid. B oth of them had carefully studied the pictures provided by the Library of Congress. There stood the famous pre-cog, tall and slender and straight, even a trifle thin, with curly hair -- or wig -- and glasses, a warm glint of friendliness in his eyes. He held a whiskey glass in one hand, and he was discoursing with several other pre-cogs. Obviously he was enjoying himself. "Um, uhh, let's see," Anderson was saying, as Tozzo and' Gilly came quietly up to join the group. "Pardon?" Anderson cupped his ear to catch what one of the other precogs was saying. "Oh, uh, yup, that's right." Anderson nodded. "Yup, Tony, uh, I agree with you one hundred per cent." The other pre-cog, Tozzo realized, was the superb Tony Boucher, whose pre-cognition of the religious revival of the next century had been almost supernatural. The word-by-word description of the Miracle in the Cave involving the robot... Tozzo gazed at Boucher with awe, and then he turned back to Anderson. "Poul," another pre-cog said. "I'll tell you how the Italians intended to get the British to leave if they did invade in #. The British would stay at hotels, the best, naturally. The Italians would overcharge them." "Oh, yes, yes," Anderson said, nodding and smiling, his eyes twinkno IF Kng. "And the British, being gentlemen, would say nothing -- " "But they'd leave the next day," the other pre-cog finished, and all in the group laughed, except for Gilly and Tozzo. "Mr. Anderson," Tozzo said tensely, "we're from an amateur pre-cog organization at Battlecreek, Michigan and we would like to photograph you beside our model of a time-dredge." "Pardon?" Anderson said, cupping his ear. Tozzo repeated what he had said, trying to be audible above the background racket. At last Anderson seemed to understand. "Oh, um, well, where is it?" Anderson asked obligingly. "Downstairs on the sidewalk," Gilly said. "It was too heavy to bring up." "Well, uh, if it won't take too awfully long," Anderson said, "which I doubt it will." He excused himself from the group and followed after them as they started toward the elevator. "It's steam-engine building time," a heavy-set man called to them as they passed. "Time to build steam engines, Poul." "We're going downstairs," Tozzo said nervously. "Walk downstairs on your heads," the pre-cog said. He waved goodby goodnaturedly, as the elevatpr came and the three of them entered it. "Kris is jolly today," Anderson said. "And how," Gilly said, using one of his phrases. "Is Bob Heinlem here?" Anderson asked Tozzo as they descended. "I understand he and Mildred Clingerman went off somewhere to talk about cats and nobody has seen them come back." "That's the way the ball bounces," Gilly said, trying out another twentU eth century phrase. Anderson cupped his ear, smiled hesitantly, but said nothing. At last, they emerged on the sidewalk. At the sight of their timedredge, Anderson blinked in astonishment. "I'll be gosh darned," he said, approaching it. "That's certainly imposing. Sure, I'd, uh, be happy to pose beside it." He drew his lean, angular body erect, smiling that warm, almost tender smile that Tozzo had noticed before. "Uh, how's this?" Anderson inquired, a little timidly. With an authentic twentieth century camera taken from the Smithsonian, Gilly snapped a picture. "Now inside," he requested, and glanced at Tozzo. "Why, uh, certainly," Poul Anderson said, and stepped up the stairs and into the dredge. "Gosh, Karen would, uh, like this," he said as he disappeared inside. "I wish to heck she'd come along." Tozzo followed swiftly. Gilly slammed the hatch shut, and, at the control board, Tozzo with the instruction manual in hand punched buttons. The turbines hummed, but Anderson did not seem to hear them; he was engrossed in staring at the controls, his eyes wide. "Gosh," he said. IF The time-dredge passed back to the present, with Anderson still lost in his scrutiny of the controls. IV F ermeti met them. "Mr. Anderson' he said, "this is an incredible honor." He held out his hand, but now Anderson was peering through the open hatch past him, at the city beyond; he did not notice the offered hand. "Say," Anderson said, his face twitching. "Um, what's, uh, this?" He was staring at the monorail system primarily, Tozzo decided. And this was odd, because at least in Seattle there had been monorails back in Anderson's time... or had there been? Had that come later? In any case, Anderson now wore a massively perplexed expression. "Individual cars," Tozzo said, standing close beside him. "Your monorails had only group cars. Later on, after your time, it was made possible for each citizen's house to have a monorail outlet; the individual brought his car out of its garage and onto the rail-terminal, from which point he joined the collective structure. Do you see?" But Anderson remained perplexed; his expression in fact had deepened. "Um," he said, "what do you mean 'my time'? Am I dead?" He looked morose now. "I thought it would be more along the lines of Valhalla, with Vikings and such. Not futuristic." "You're not dead, Mr. Anderson," Fermeti said. "What you're facing is the culture-syndrome of the mid twenty-first century. I must tell you, sir, that you've been napped. But you will be returned; I give you both my personal and official word." Anderson's jaw dropped, but he said nothing; he continued to stare. D onald Nils, notorious murderer, sat at the single table in the reference room of the Emigration Bureau's interstellar speed-of-light ship and computed that he was, in Earth figures, an inch high: Bitterly, he cursed. "It's cruel and unusual punishment," he grated aloud. "It's against the Constitution." And then he remembered that he had volunteered, in order to get out of Nachbaren Slager. That goddam hole, he said to himself. Anyhow, I'm out of there. And, he said to himself, even if I'm only an inch high I've still made myself captain of this lousy ship, and if it ever gets to Proxima I'll be captain of the entire lousy Proxima System. I didn't study with Gutman himself for nothing. And if that don't beat Nachbaren Slager, I don't know what does... His second-in-command, Pete Bailly, stuck his head into the reference room. "Hey, Nils, I have been looking over the micro-repro of this particular old pre-cog journal Astounding like you told me, this Venus Equilateral article about matter transmission, and I mean even though I was the top vid repairman in New York City that don't mean I can build one of these things." He glared at Nils. "That's asking a lot." Nils said tightly, "We've got to get back to Earth." lit "You're out of luck," Bailly told him. "Better settle for Prox." Furiously, Nils swept the microreproductions from the table, onto the floor of the ship. "That damn Bureau of Emigration! They tricked us!" Bailly shrugged. "Anyhow we got plenty to eat and a good reference library and #-D movies every night." "By the time we get to Prox," Nils snarled, "we'll have seen every movie -- " He calculated. "Two thousand times." "Well, then don't watch. Or we can run them backwards. How's your research coming?" "I got going the micro of an article in Space Science Fiction " Nils said thoughtfully, "called The Variable Man . It tells about faster-thanlight transmission. You disappear and then reappear. Some guy named Cole is going to perfect it, according to the old-time pre-cog who wrote it." He brooded about that. "If we could build a faster-than-light ship we could return to Earth. We could take over." "That's crazy talk," Bailly said. Nils regarded him. "I'm in command." "Then," Bailly said, "we got a nut in command. There's no returning to Terra; we better build our lives on Proxima's planets and forget forever about our home. Thank God we got women aboard. My God, even if we did get back... what could one-inch high people accomplish? We'd be jeered at." "Nobody jeers at me," Nils said quiedy. But he knew Eailly was right. They'd be lucky if they could re search the micros of the old pre-cog journals in the ship's reference room and develop for themselves a way of landing safely on Proxima's planets... even that was asking a lot. We'll succeed, Nils said to himself. As long as everyone obeys me, does exactly as I tell them, with no dumb questions. Bending, he activated the spool of the December # . There was an article in it that particularly interested him... and he had four years ahead of him in which to read, understand, and finally apply it. F ermeti said, "Surely your pre-cog ability helped prepare you for this, Mr. Anderson." His voice faltereded with nervous strain, despite his efforts to control it. "How about taking me back now?" Anderson said. He sounded almost calm. Fermeti, after shooting a swift glance at Tozzo and Gilly, said to Anderson, "We have . a technical problem, you see. That's why we brought here to our own time-continuum. You see -- " "I think you had better, um, take me back," Anderson broke in. "Karen'll get worried." He craned his neck, peering in all directions. "I knew it would be somewhat on this order," he murmured. His face twitched. "Not too different from what I expected... what's that tall thing over there? Looks like what the old blimps used to catch onto." "That." Tozzo said, "is a prayer tower." "Our problem," Fermeti said paIF tiently, "is dealt with in your article Night Flight in the August # If. We've been able to deprive an interstellar vehicle of its mass, but so far restoration of mass has -- " "Uh, oh, yes," Anderson said, in a preoccupied way. "I'm working on that yarn right now. Should have that off to Scott in another couple of weeks." He explained, "My agent." Fermeti considered a moment and then said, "Can you give us the formula for mass-restoration, Mr. Anderson?" "Um," Poul Anderson said slowly, "Yes, I guess that would be the correct term. Mass-restoration... I could go along with that." He nodded. "I haven't worked out any formula; I didn't want to make the yam too technical. I guess I could make one up, if that's what they wanted." He was silent, then, apparently having withdrawn into a world of his own; the three men waited, but Anderson said nothing more. "Your pre-cog ability," Fermeti said. "Pardon?" Anderson said, cupping his ear. "Pre-cog?" He smiled shyly. "Oh, uh, I wouldn't go so far as to say that. I know John believes in all that, but I can't say as I consider a few experiments at Duke University as proof." Fermeti stared at Anderson a long time. "Take the first article in the January # Galaxy" he said quietly. "The Defenders... about the people living, beneath the surface and the robots up above, pretending to fight the war but actually not, actually faking the reports so interestingly that the people -- " "I read that," Poul Anderson agreed. "Very good, I thought, except for the ending. I didn't care too much for the ending. Fermeti said, "You understand, don't you, that those exact conditions came to pass in #, during World War Three? That by means of the article we were able to penetrate the deception carried on by our surface robots? That virtually every word of that article was exactly prophetic -- " "Phil Dick wrote that," Anderson said. " The Defenders ." "Do you know him?" Tozzo inquired. "Met him yesterday at the Convention," Anderson said. "For the first time. Very nervous fellow, was almost afraid to come in." Fermeti said, "Am I to understand that none of you are aware that you are pre-cogs?" His voice shook, completely out of control now. "  "some sf writers believe in it. I think Alf Van Vogt does." He smiled at Fermeti. "But don't you understand?" Fermeti demanded. "You described us in an article -- you accurately described our Bureau and its interstellar Project!" After a pause, Anderson murmured, "Gosh, I'll be darned. No, I didn't know that. Um, thanks a lot for telling me." Turning to Tozzo, Fermeti said, "Obviously we'll have to. recast our entire concept of the mid twentieth century." He looked weary. Tozzc said, 'Tor our purposes their ignorance doesn't matter. Because the pre-cognitive ability was there anyhow, whether they recognized it or not." That, to him, was perfectly clear. Anderson, meanwhile, had wandered off a little and stood now inspecting the display window of a nearby gift store. "Interesting brica-brac in there. I ought to pick up something for Karen while I'm here. Would it be all right -- " He turned questioningly to Fermeti. "Could I step in there for a moment and look around?" "Yes, yes," Fermeti said irritably. Poul Anderson disappeared inside the gift shop, leaving the three of them to argue the meaning of their discovery. "What we've got tc do," Fermeti said, "is sit him down in the situation familiar to him: before a typewriter. We must persuade him to compose an article on deprivation of mass and its subsequent restoration. Whether he himself takes the article to be factual or not has no bearing; it still will be. The Smithsonian must have a workable twentieth century typewriter and # by #I white sheets of paper. Do you agree?" Tozzo, meditating, said, "I'll tell you what I think. It was a cardinal error to permit him to go into that gift shop." "Why is that?" Fermeti inquired. "I see his point," Gilly said excitedly. "We'll never see Anderson again; he's skipped out on us through the pretext of gift-shopping for his wife." Ashen-faced, Fermeti turned and #W raced into the gift shop. Tozzo and Gilly followed. The store was empty. Anderson had eluded them; he was gone. A s he loped silently out the back door of the gift shop, Poul Anderson thought to himself, I don't believe they'll get me. At least not right away. I've got too much to do while I'm here, he realized. What an opportunity! When I'm an old man I can tell Astrid's children about this. Thinking of his daughter Astrid reminded him of one very simple fact, however. Eventually he had to go back to #. Because of Karen and the baby. No matter what he found here -- for him it was temporary. But meanwhile... first I'll go to the library, any library, he decided. And get a good look at history books that'll tell me what took place in the intervening years between # and now. I'd like to know, he said to himself, about the Cold War, how the U. S. and Russia come out. And -- space explorations. I'll bet they put a man on Luna by #. Certainly, they're exploring space now; heck, they even have a time-dredge so they must have that. Ahead Poul Anderson saw a doorway. It was open and without hesitation he plunged into it. Another shop of some kind, but this one larger than the gift shop. "Yes sir," a voice said, and a bald-headed man -- they all seemed to be bald-headed here -- approached him. The man glanced at AnIF derson's hair, his clothes... however the clerk was polite; he made no comment. "May I help you?" he asked. "Urn," Anderson said, stalling. What did this place sell, anyhow? He glanced around. Gleaming electronic objects of some sort. But what did they do? The clerk said, "Haven't you been nuzzled lately, sir?" "What's that?" Anderson said. Nuzzled? "The new spring nuzzlers have arrived, you know," the clerk said, moving toward the gleaming spherical machine nearest him. "Yes," he said to Poul, "you do strike me as very, very faintly introve -- no offense meant, sir, I mean, it's legal to be introved." The clerk chuckled. "For instance, your rather odd clothing... made it yourself, I take it? I must say, sir, to make your own clothing is highly introve. Did you weave it?" The clerk grimaced as if tasting something bad. "No," Poul said, "as a matter of fact it's my best suit." "Heh, heh," the clerk said. 'I share the joke, sir; quite witty. But what about your head? You haven't shaved your head in weeks" "Nope," Anderson admitted. "Well, maybe I do need a nuzzler." Evidently everyone in this century had one; like a TV set in his own time, it was a necessity, in order for one to be part of the culture. "How many in your family?" the clerk said. Bringing out a measuring tape, he measured the length of Poul's sleeve. "Three," Poul answered, baffled. "How old is the youngest?" "Just born," Poul said. The clerk's face lost all its color. "Get out of here," he said quietly. "Before I call for the polpol" "Um, what's that? Pardon?" Poul said, cupping his ear and trying to hear, not certain he had understood. "You're a criminal," the clerk mumbled. "You ought to be in Nachbaren Slager." "Well, thanks anyhow," Poul said, and backed out of the store, onto the sidewalk; his last glimpse was of the clerk still staring at him. U A re you a foreigner?" a voice f asked, a woman's voice. At the curb she had halted her vehicle. It looked to Poul like a bed; in fact, he realized, it was a bed. The woman regarded him with astute calm, her eyes dark and intense. Although her glistening shaved head somewhat upset him, he could see that she was attractive. "I'm from another culture," Poul said, finding himself unable to keep his eyes from her figure. Did all the women dress like this here in this society? Bare shoulders, he could understand. But not -- And the bed. The combination of the two was too much for him. What kind of business was she in, anyhow? And in public. What a society this was... morals had changed since his own time. "I'm looking for the library," Poul said, not coming too close to the vehicle which was a bed with motor and wheels, a tiller for steering. The woman said, "The library is one bight from here." "Um," Poul said, "what's a 'bight?' " "Obviously, you're wanging me," the woman said. All visible parts of her flushed a dark red. "It's not funny. Any more than your disgustingly hairy head is. Really, both your wanging and your head are not amusing, at least not to me." And yet she did not go on; she remained where she was, regarding him somberly. "Perhaps you need help," she decided. "Perhaps I should pity you. You know of course that the polpol could pick you up any time they want." Poul said, "Could I, um, buy you a cup of coffee somewhere and we could talk? I'm really anxious to find the library." "I'll go with you," the woman agreed. "Although I have no idea what 'coffee' is. If you touch me I'll nilp at once." "Don't do that," Poul said, "it's unnecessary; all I want to do is look up some historical material." And then it occurred to him that he could make good use of any technical data he could get his hands on. What one volume might he smuggle back to # which would be of great value? He racked his brains. An almanac. A dictionary... a school text on science which surveyed all the fields for laymen; yes, that would do it. A seventh grade text or a high school text. He could rip the covers off, throw them away, put the pages inside his coat. Poul said, "Where's a school? The closest school." He felt the urgency of it, now. He had no doubt that they were after him, close behind. "What is a 'school? " the woman asked. "Where your children go," Poul said. The woman said quietly, "You poor sick man." V F or a time Tozzo and Fermeti and Gilly stood in silence. And then Tozzo said in a carefully controlled voice. "You know what's going to happen to him, of course. Polpol will pick him up and mono-express him to Nachbaren Slager. Because of his appearance. He may even be there already." Fermeti sprinted at once for the nearest vidphone. "I'm going to contact the authorities at Nachbaren Slager. I'll talk to Potter; we can trust him, I think." Presently Major Potter's heavy, dark features formed on the vidscreen. "Oh, hello, Fermeti. You want more convicts, do you?" He chuckled. "You use them up even faster than we do." Behind Potter, Fermeti caught a glimpse of the open recreation area of the giant internment camp. Criminals, both political and nonpol, could be seen roaming about, stretching their legs, some of them playing dull, pointless games which, he knew, went on and on, sometimes for months, each time they were out of their work-cells. "What we want," Fermeti said, "is to prevent an individual being IF brought to you at all." He described Poul Anderson. "If he's monoed there, call me at once. And don't harm him. You understand? We want him back safe." "Sure," Potter said easily. "Just a minute; I'll have a scan put on our new admissions." He touched a button to his right and a #-R computer came on; Fermeti heard its low hum. Potter touched buttons and then said, "This'll pick him out if he's monoed here. Our admissionscircuit is prepared to . reject him." "No sign yet?" Fermeti asked tensely. "Nope," Potter said, and purposefully yawned. Fermeti broke the connection. "Now what?" Tozzo said. "We could possibly trace him by means of a Ganymedean sniffer-sponge." They were a repellent life form, though; if one managed to find its quarry it fastened at once to its blood system leech-wise. "Or do it mechanically," he added. "With a detec beam. We have a print of Anthat would really bring in the polpol." The detec beam by law belonged only to the polpol; after all, it was the artifact which had, at last, tracked down Gutman himself. Fermeti said bluntly, "I'm for broadcasting a planet-wide Type II alert. That'll activate the citizenry, the average informer. They'll know there's an automatic reward for any Type II found." "But he could be manhandled that way," Gilly pointed out. "By a mob. Let's think this through." After a pause Tozzo said, "How about trying it from a purely cerebral standpoint? If you had been transported from the mid twentieth century to our continuum, what would you want to do? Where would you go?" Quietly, Fermeti said, "To the nearest spaceport, of course. To buy a ticket to Mars or the outplanets -- routine in our age but utterly out of the question at mid twentieth century." They looked at one another. "But Anderson doesn't know where the spaceport is," Gilly said. "It'll take him valuable time to orient himself. We can go there directly by express subsurface mono." A moment later the three Bureau of Emigration men were on their way. "A fascinating situation," Gilly said, as they rode along, jiggling up and down, facing one another in the monorail first-class compartment. "We totally misjudged the mid twentieth century mind; it should be a lesson to us. Once we've regained possession of Anderson we should make further inquiries. For instance, the Poltergeist Effect. What was their interpretation of it? And table-tapping -- did they recognize it for what it was? Or did they merely consign it to the realm of the so-called 'occult' and let it go at that?" "Anderson may hold the clue to these questions and many others," Fermeti said. "But our central problem remains the same. We must induce him to complete the mass-restoration formula in precise mathe matical terms, rather than vague, poetic allusions." Thoughtfully, Tozzo said, "He's a at the ease by which he eluded us." "Yes," Fermeti agreed. "We mustn't underestimate him. We did that, and it's rebounded." His face was grim. H urrying up the almost-deserted sidestreet, Poul Anderson wondered why the woman had regarded him as sick. And the mention of children had set off the clerk in the store, too. Was birth illegal now? Or was it regarded as sex had been once, as something too private to speak of in public? In any case, he realized, if I plan to stay here I've got to shave my head. And, if possible, acquire different clothing. There must be barbershops. And, he thought, the coins in my pockets; they're probably worth a lot to collectors. He glanced about, hopefully. But all he saw were tall, luminous plastic and metal buildings which made up the city, structures in which incomprehensible transactions took place. They were as alien to him as -- Alien, he thought, and the word lodged chokingly in his mind. Because -- something had oozed from a doorway ahead of him. And now his way was blocked -- deliberately, it seemed -- by a slime mold, dark yellow in color, as large as a human being, palpitating visibly on the sidewalk. After a pause the slime mold undulated toward him at a regular, slow rate. A human evolutionary development? Poul Anderson wondered, recoiling from it. Good lord... and then he realized what he was seeing. This era had space travel. He was seeing a creature from another planet. "Um," Poul said, to the enormous mass of slime mold, "can I bother you a second to ask a question?" The slime mold ceased to undulate forward. And in Poul's brain a thought formed which was not his own. "I catch your query. In answer: I arrived yesterday from Callisto. But I also catch a number of unusual and highly interesting thoughts in addition... you are a time traveler from the past." The tone of the creature's emanations was one of considerate, polite amusement -- and interest. "Yes," Poul said. "From #." "And you wish to find a barbershop, a library and a school. All at once, in the precious time remaining before they capture you." The slime mold seemed solicitous. "What can I do to help you? I could absorb you, but it would be a permanent symbiosis, and you would not like that. You are thinking of your wife and child. Allow me to inform you as to the problem regarding your unfortunate mention of children. Terrans of this period are experiencing a mandatory moratorium on childbirth, because of the almost infinite sporting of the previous decades. There was a war, you see. Between Gutman's fanatical followers and the more liberal legions of General McKinley. The latter won." Poul said, "Where should I go? I'm confused." His head throbbed and he felt tired. Too much had happened. IF Just a short while ago he had been standing with Tony Boucher in the Sir Francis Drake Hotel, drinking and chatting... and now this. Facing this great slime mold from Callisto. It was difficult -- to say the least -- to make such an adjustment. T he slime mold was transmitting to him. "I am accepted here while you, their ancestor, are regarded as odd. Ironic. To me, you look quite like them, except for your curly brown hair and of course your silly clothing. ,, The creature from Callisto pondered. "My friend, the polpol are the political police, and they search for deviants, followers of the defeated Gutman, who are terrorists now, and hated. Many of these followers are drawn from the potentially criminal classes. That is, the non-conformists, the so-called introves. Individuals who set their own subjective value-system up in place of the objective system in vogus. It is a matter of life and death to the Terrans, since Gutman almost won." "I'm going to hide," Poul den cided. "But where? You can't really. Not unless you wish to go underground and join the Gutmanites, the criminal class of bomb-throwers... and you won't want to do that. Let us stroll together, and if anyone challenges you, I will say you're my servant. You have manual extensors and I have not. And I have, by a quirk, decided to dress you oddly and to have you retain your headhair. The responsibility then becomes mine. It is actually not unusual for higher out-world organisms to employ Terran help." "Thanks," Poul said tautly, as the slime mold resumed its slow forward motion along the sidewalk. "But there are things I want to do -- " "I am on my way to the zoo," the slime mold continued. An unkind thought came to Poul. "Please," the slime mold said. "Your anachronistic twentieth century humor is not appreciated. I am not an inhabitant of the zoo; it is for life forms of low mental order such as Martian glebs and trawns. Since the initiation of interplanetary travel, zoos have become the center of -- " Poul said, "Could you lead me to the space terminal?" He tried to make his request sound casual. "You take a dreadful risk," the slime mold said, "in going to any public place. The polpol watch constantly." "I still want to go." If he could board an interplanetary ship, if he could leave Earth, see other worlds -- But they would erase his memory; all at once he realized that, in a rush of horror. I've got to make notes , he told himself. At once! "Do, um, you have a pencil?" he asked the slime mold. "Oh, wait; I have one. Pardon me." Obviously the slime mold didn't. On a piece of paper from his coat pocket -- it was convention material of some sort -- he wrote hurriedly, in brief, disjointed phrases, what had happened to him, what he had seen in the twenty-first century. Then he quickly stuck the paper back in his pocket. "A wise move," the slime mold said. "And now to the spaceport, if you will accompany me at my slow pace. And, as we go, I will give you details of Terra's history from your period on." The slime mold moved down the sidewalk. Poul accompanied it eagerly; after all, what choice did he have? "The Soviet Union. That was tragic. Their war with Red China in # which finally involved Israel and France... regrettable, but it did solve the problem of what to do with France -- a most difficult nation to deal with in the latter half of the twentieth century." On his piece of paper Poul jotted that down, too. "After France had been defeated -- " The slime mold went on, as Poul scratched against time. F ermeti said, "We must glin, if we're to catch Anderson before he boards a ship." And by "glin" he did not mean glinning a little; he meant a full search with the cooperation of the polpol. He hated to bring them in, and yet their help now seemed vital. Too much time had passed and Anderson had not yet been found. The spaceport lay ahead, a great disk miles in diameter, with no vertical obstructions. In the center was the Burned Spot, seared by years of tail-exhausts from landing and departing ships. Fermeti liked the spaceport, because here the denseness of the close-packed buildings of the city abruptly ceased. Here was openness, such as he recalled from childhood... if one dared to think openly of childhood. The terminal building was set hundreds of feet beneath the rexeroid layer built to protect the waiting people in case of an accident above. Fermeti reached the entrance of the descent ramp, then halted impatiently to wait for Tozzo and Gilly to catch up with him. "I'll nilp," Tozzo said, but without enthusiasm. And he broke the band on his wrist with a single decisive motion. The polpol ship hovered overhead at once. "We're from the Emigration Bureau," Fermeti explained to the polpol lieutenant. He outlined their Project, described -- reluctantly -- their bringing Poul Anderson from his time-period to their own. "Hair on head," the polpol lieutenant noted. "Quaint duds. Okay, Mr. Fermeti; we'll glin until we find him." He nodded, and his small ship shot off. "They're efficient," Tozzo admitted. "But not likeable," Fermeti said, finishing Tozzo's thought. "They make me uncomfortable," Tozzo agreed. "But I suppose they're supposed to." The three of them stepped onto the descent ramp -- and dropped at breathtaking speed to level one below. Fermeti shut his eyes, wincing at the loss of weight. It was almost as bad as takeoff itself. Why did everything have to be so rapid, these days? It certainly was not like the previous decade, when things had gone leisurely. They stepped from the ramp, shook themselves, and were apIF proached instantly by the building's polpol chief. "We have a report on your man," the gray-uniformed officer told them. "He hasn't taken off?" Fermeti said. "Thank God." He looked around. "Over there," the officer said, pointing. At a magazine rack, Poul Anderson was looking intently at the display. It took only a moment for the three Emigration Bureau officials to surround him. "Oh, uh, hello," Anderson said. "While I was waiting for my ship I thought I'd take a look and see what's still in print." Fermeti said, "Anderson, we require your unique abilities. I'm sorry, but we're taking you back to the Bureau." All at once Anderson was gone. Soundlessly, he had ducked away; they saw his tall, angular form become smaller as he raced for the gate to the field proper. Reluctantly, Fermeti reached within his coat and brought out a sleep-gun. "There's no other choice," he murmured, and squeezed. The racing figure tumbled, rolled. Fermeti put the sleep-gun away and in a toneless voice said, "He'll recover. A skinned knee, nothing worse." He glanced at Gilly and Tozzo. "Recover at the Bureau, I mean." Together, the three of them advanced toward the prone figure on the floor of the spaceport waiting room. CCyLTou may return to your own I time-continuum," Fermeti said quietly, "when you've given us the mass-restoration formula." He nodded, and a Bureau workman approached, carrying the ancient Royal portable typewriter. Seated in the chair across from Fermeti in the Bureau's inner business office, Poul Anderson said, "I don't use a portable." "You must cooperate," Fermeti informed him. "We have the scientific know-how to restore you to Karen; remember Karen and remember your newly-born daughter at the Congress in San Francisco's Sir Francis Drake Hotel. Without full cooperation from you, Anderson, there will be no cooperation from the Bureau. Surely, with your pre-cog ability you can see that." After a pause Anderson said, "Um, I can't work unless I have a pot of fresh coffee brewing around me at all times, somewhere." Curtly, Fermeti signaled. "We'll obtain coffee beans for you," he declared. "But the brewing is up to you. We'll also supply a pot from the Smithsonian collection and there our responsibility ends." Taking hold of the carriage of the typewriter, Anderson began to inspect it. "Red and back ribbon," he said. "I always use black. But I guess I can make do." He seemed a trifle sullen. Inserting a sheet of paper, he began to type. At the top of the page appeared the words: -- Poul Anderson "You say If bought it?" he asked Fermeti. "Yes," Fermeti replied tensely. Anderson typed: Difficulties at Outward, Incorporated had begun to nettle Edmond Fletcher. For one thing, an entire ship had disappeared, and although the individuals aboard were not personally known to him he felt a twinge of responsibility. Now, as he lathered himself with hormone-impregnated soap "He starts at the beginning," Fermeti said bitingly. "Well, if there's no alternative we'll simply have to bear with him." Musingly, he murmured, "I wonder how long it takes... I wonder how fast he writes. As a pre-cog he can see what's coming next; it should help him to do it in a hurry." Or was that just wishful thinking? "Have the coffee beans arrived yet?" Anderson asked, glancing up. "Any time now," Fermeti said. "I hope some of the beans are Colombian," Anderson said. L ong before the beans arrived the article was done. Rising stiffly, uncoiling his lengthy limbs, Poul Anderson said, "I think you have what you want, there. The mass restoration formula is on typescript page #." Eagerly, Fermeti turned the pages. Yes, there it was; peering over his shoulder, Tozzo saw the paragraph: If the ship followed a trajectory which would carry it into the star Proxima, it would, he realized, regain its mass through a process of leeching solar energy from the great star-furnace itself. Yes, it was Proxima itself which held the key to Torelli's problem, and now, after all this time, it had been solved. The simple formula revolved in his brain. And, Tozzo saw, there lay the formula. As the article said, the mass would be regained from solar energy converted into matter, the ultimate source of power in the universe. The answer had stared them in the face all this time! Their long struggle was over. "And now," Poul Anderson asked, "I'm free to go back to my own time?" Fermeti said simply, "Yes." "Wait," Tozzo said to his superior. "There's evidently something you don't understand." It was a section which he had read in the instruction manual attached to the time-dredge. He drew Fermeti to one side, where Anderson could not hear. "He can't be sent back to his own time with the knowledge he has now." "What knowledge?" Fermeti inquired. "That -- well. I'm not certain. Something to do with our society, here. What I'm trying to tell you is this: the first rule of time travel, according to the manual, is don't change the past. In this situation just bringing Anderson here has changed the past merely by exposing him to our society." Pondering, Fermeti said, "You may be correct. While he was in that gift shop he may have picked up some object which, taken back to IF his own time, might revolutionize their technology." "Or at the magazine rack at the spaceport," Tozzo said. "Or on his trip between those two points. And -- even the knowledge that he and his colleagues are pre-cogs." "You're right," Fermeti said. "The memory of this trip must be wiped from his brain." He turned and walked slowly back to Poul Anderson. "Look here," he addressed him. "I'm sorry to tell you this, but everything that's happened to you must be wiped from your brain." After a pause, Anderson said, "That's a shame. Sorry to hear that." He looked downcast. "But I'm not surprised," he murmured. He seemed philosophical about the whole affair. "It's generally handled this way." Tozzo asked, "Where can this alteration of the memory cells of his brain be accomplished?" "At the Department of Penology," Fermeti said. "Through the same channels we obtained the convicts." Pointing his sleep-gun at Poul Anderson he said, "Come along with us. I regret this... but it has to be done." VI A t the Department of Penology, painless electroshock removed from Poul Anderson's brain the precise cells in which his most recent memories were stored. Then, in a semi-conscious state, he was carried back into the time-dredge. A moment later he was on his trip back to the year #, to his own society and time. To the Sir Francis Drake Hotel in downtown San Francisco, California and his waiting wife and child. When the time-dredge returned empty, Tozzo, Gilly and Fermeti breathed a sigh of relief and broke open a bottle of hundred-year-old Scotch which Fermeti had been saving. The mission had been successfully accomplished; now they could turn their attention back to the Project. "Where's the manuscript that he wrote?" Fermeti said, putting down his glass to look all around his office. There was no manuscript to be found. And, Tozzo noticed, the antique Royal portable typewriter which they had brought from the Smithsonian -- it was gone, too. But why? Suddenly chill fear traveled up him. He understood. "Good lord," he said thickly. He put down his glass. "Somebody get a copy of the journal with his article in it. At once." Fermeti said, "What is it, Aaron? Explain." "When we removed his memory of what had happened we made it impossible for him to write the anticle for the journal," Tozzo said. "He must have based Night Flight on his experience with us, here." Snatching up the August # copy of If he turned to the table-of-contents page. No article by Poul Anderson was listed. Instead, on page #, he saw Philip K. Dick's The Mold of Yancy listed instead. They had changed the past after all. And now the formula for their Project was gone -- gone entirely. "We shouldn't have tampered," Tozzo said in a hoarse voice. "We should never have brought him out of the past." He drank a little more of the century-old Scotch, his hands shaking. "Brought who?" Gilly said, with a puzzled look. "Don't you remember?" Tozzo stared at him, incredulous. "What's this discussion about?" Fermeti said impatiently. "And what are you two doing in my office? You both should be busy at work." He saw the bottle of Scotch and blanched. "How'd that get open?" His hands trembling, Tozzo turned the pages of the journal over and over again. Already, the memory was growing diffuse in his mind; he struggled in vain to hold onto it. They had brought someone from the past, a pre-cog, wasn't it? But who? A name, still in his mind but dimming with each passing moment... Anderson or Anderton something like that. And in connection with the Bureau's interstellar mass-deprivation Project. Or was it? Puzzled, Tozzo shook his head and said in bewilderment, "I have some peculiar wprds in my mind. Night Flight. Do either of you happen to know what it refers to?" " Night Flight " Fermeti echoed. "No, it means nothing to me. I wonder, though -- it certainly would be an effective name for our Project." "Yes," Gilly agreed. "That must be what it refers to." "But our Project is called Waterspider , isn't it?" Tozzo said. At least he thought it was. He blinked, trying to focus his faculties. "The truth of the matter," Fermeti said, "is that we've never titled it." Brusquely, he added, "But I agree with you; that's an even better name for it. Waterspider . Yes, I like that." The door of the office opened and there stood a uniformed, bonded messenger. "From the Smithsonian," he informed them. "You requested this." He produced a parcel, which he laid on Fermeti's desk. "I don't remember ordering anything from the Smithsonian," Fermeti said. Opening it cautiously he found a can of roasted, ground coffee beans, still vacuum packed, over a century old. The three men looked at one another blankly. "Strange," Torelli murmured. "There must be some mistake." "Well," Fletcher said, "in any case, back to Project Waterspider Nodding, Torelli and Gilman turned in the direction of their own office on the first floor of Outward, Incorporated, the commercial firm at which they worked and the project on which they had labored, with so many heartaches and setbacks, for so long. A t the Science Fiction Convention at the Sir Francis Drake Hotel, Poul Anderson looked around him in bewilderment. Where had he been? Why had he gone out of the building? And it was an hour later; Tony Boucher and Jim Gunn had IF left for dinner by now, and he saw no sign of his wife Karen and the baby, either. The last he remembered was two fans from Battlecreek who wanted him to look at a display outside on the sidewalk. Perhaps he had gone to see that. In any case, he had no memory of the interval. Anderson groped about in his coat pocket for his pipe, hoping to calm his oddly jittery nerves -- and found, not his pipe, but instead a folded piece of paper. "Got anything for our auction, Poul?" a member of the Convention committee asked, halting beside him. "The auction is just about to start -- we have to hurry." Still looking at the paper from his pocket, Poul murmured, "Urn, you mean something here with me?" "Like a typescript of some published story, the original manuscript or earlier versions or notes. You know." He paused, waiting. "I seem to have some notes in my pocket," Poul said, still glancing over them. They were in his handwriting but he didn't remember having made them. A time-travel story, from the look of them. Must have been from those Bourbons and water, he decided, and not enough to eat. "Here," he said uncertainly, "it isn't much but I guess you can auction these." He took one final glance at them. "Notes for a story about a political figure called Gutman and a kidnapping in time. Intelligent slime mold, too, I notice." On impulse, he handed them over. "Thanks, the man said, and hurried on toward the other room, where the auction was being held. "I bid ten dollars," Howard Browne called, smiling broadly. "Then I have to catch a bus to the airport." The door closed after him. Karen, with Astrid, appeared beside Poul. "Want to go into the auction?" she asked her husband. "Buy an original Finlay?" "Urn, sure," Poul Anderson said, and with his wife and child walked TO by Jack Sharkey (Puzzle on page #) The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: IF is looking up. Congratulations on A. E. Van Vogt -- how'd you do it? Also Manners and Customs of the Thrid was good, and so was The Reefs of Space. Fve got one beef, though. What happened to the colored pic backgrounds? Also try to get Isaac Asimov, R.A.H. and Damor Knight, eh? One more question: How do you get your IFs back after loaning them? -- Walter E. Haun, R.R. Longville, Minnesota.  Answer: With difficulty. -- Editor.    Dear Editor: I have come to the conclusion that IF is making a supreme determination in doing everything to uphold the dignity of science fiction -- by printing stories better by far than many others which pass as sf these days. I have been a fan since I was # years old. After # years of reading sf, I have reached the decision that IF beats all. In my opinion, anyone of reasonable intelligence and imagination is a potential sf fan -- which state changes to a reality when such a person finds himself presented with a good sf magazine. Many characters who pass through the pages of IF will undoubtedly live -- I think. Clearcut stories of reality that invoke fact, fiction, prophecy and sometimes "IF"-ness. A friend of mine asked, "But is it fact or fiction?" Say what you like, but it still leaves a great deal of questions unanswered. So, Mr. Editor, -- keep printing, keep up the great stories and, stone the crows, mate, keep IF rolling -- (Miss) Dianne Hall-Clarke, ## Wentworth Ave., Dolan's Boy, Sth. Caringbah, Sidney, N.S.W., Australia.    Dear Editor: Why not combine IF y Galaxy and Worlds of Tomorrow into one #page monthly #c magazine? You could get more advertising by saying you had the combined circulation of the three magazines, and with the money you get from advertising you could have a better magazine. I also wonder why the Guinn magazines don't have classified advertising as brands Z-D and M do. IF Also, wher are the Retief stories going to be combined into a fullsized book? -- Irvin M. Koch, # White Oak Road, Chattanooga #, Tennessee.  (#) Because we'd lose money. (#) Sounds like a good idea -- maybe we'll try it. (#) They just have, or anyway about six of them have, in a book published by Ace called Envoy to New Worlds . -- Editor .    Dear Editor: This September issue of IF is the first I've bought in a few issues. Van Vogt's story sold it to me, of course. I got my money's worth. It is certainly a pleasure to have him back in science fiction. Mary Larson's The Time of Cold was a comfortable second. I'll look for her name in future numbers; there are not enough upbeat writers in the field. Don't you think that the belief in sympathetic magic you display on the inside back cover is rather out of keeping with the editor of a science-fiction magazine? -- Richard Kyle, # Earl Avenue, Long Beach, California, #.  For those who miss the point of this last remark (a group which included your editor until he went and got a copy of the magazine to check up), the reference is to the fact that the page in question contained an ad which was clearly meant to appear in Galaxy , not IF... By the way, more Van Vogt is on the way. One story in, more promised; but we're not just sure yet when they will appear -- Editor.   .  Dear Editor: This letter is going to be a dissertation on letter columns, otherwise known as lettercols. So sit right back, relax and prepare yourself to hear a sermon of sorts. The first thing that needs to be taken care of, naturally, is to define the purpose of a letter column in relation to a sf magazine. First of all, it should serve as ? sounding board for ideas; a place where ideas can be expounded or criticized. It should be a form of a forum where concepts are studied, analyzed, investigated. Secondly, it should not be a place where, primarily, likes and dislikes in regards to. stories, art or artists are put forth. These comments are of no consequence and waste space. "Whoa, check, gasp. Wait a minute here!" you say. "How in hell am I supposed to know what te readers want? These gripes are necessary in order that I may give them what they want." I agree completely. Don't get me wrong; I'm not saying that the comments are bad or should be disregarded. I'm saying that you shouldn't publish them. Let's face it: what nobody else thinks about a story doesn't make a bit of difference to me. I've already made up my mind, and like nothin's going to change it! Such matters are completely subjective and so are not open to discussion or argument. As things now stand only one magazine has a letter column that consistently fills the above requirements -- Analog. Oh, sure, If, Amazing and Fantastic occasionally print a letter that is worth reading, but not consistently. The next question is, what is there to write about? After all, as "P.C." said in the September, #, IF, it gets kind of hard to write editorials worth writing letters about, month after month. Let's stop and think a minute. Just why do fen read sf ? For escape? Not likely. For mental stimulation! And how do you get mental stimulation? By reading about concepts, ideas, philosophies! And where can these ideas be found in science fiction? In the stories. If you stop and give it some thought, isn't each and every story in the science-fiction field, for the most part, an editorial in itself? Expounding some thought? Damning some habit? Criticizing an idea? Heck sakes, every issue of an sf magazine has at least two or three concepts to write about ! Lastly I would like to make a general observation about letter columns. That is the manner, style, tone in which the letters published are written. Some time ago I got Wonder Stories , Startling Stories and Fantastic Story Quarterly. Now the lettercols in said magazines were really something! Sure, the letter writers called each other names while in the process of making some point, but, heck, that was what made the columns so fascinating. It seems to me that the quality which the letter columns of today are missing is humanness. All the columns, including Analog j, seem unnatural, forced, inhuman. -- Jim Maughan, # N Street, Turn water, Washington.  There's one thing that an editor can't do to improve his letter columns: he can't write the letters! That's up to you fellows out there. -- Editor .    Dear Editor: The Expendables first new Van Vogt story in fourteen years? Please check the January, # issue of Scientific American. The Hoffman Electronics Corporation ran a two page ad, and an sf story by Van Vogt was the focal point. It was called Itseif, The Hoffman people ran a series of six sf-oriented ads during '#, each with a short-short by an author such as Van Vogt, Heinlein, Asimov and Leiber. Each was billed "a science-fiction original created expressly for Hoffman Electronics Corporation" and served as a stepping-off point for a discussion on "How Science Fiction Becomes Scientific Fact." -- Kenneth Burington, # South Meadow Drive, Glen Burnie, Maryland  When we bought. Van Vogt's story, we asked him how long it had been since he had written a story for an sf magazine -- the #-year figure was his. And, of course, it's true enough; he (and we) didn't think of the story appearing in the advertisement any more than we thought of his non-sf novel about communism in Asia, etc. -- Editor . That fills us up for another issue. Coming next time: a new Retief by Keith Laumer, The City That Grew in the Sea (and we think's it's one of the best ever) -- the conclusion of Pcul Anderson's exciting Three Worlds to Conquer -- In Saturn # # Rings , oy Robert F. Young -- and lots more. As old hands know, each issue we print at least one story by someone who has never before appeared in a science-fiction magazine. The idea is to give new talent a chance at a hearing, and thus to keep up the supply of new blood that every field needs. This issue we have two: The Competitors , by an Oklahoman who has been published a time or two before in other fields, but appears here with his first science-fiction story ever, and Mack , by a Kentucky newspaperman making his first stab at fiction of any kind. We think you'll be hearing more from both of them I -- FP IF Please #I Hudson Si. rush me New York  copies of #, Name Address City State I Enclose The Original Edition -- Complete ! Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours For Only #! Plus Postage # its vividly real telepathic society, detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finishing the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Vi OF Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) IN SATURN'S RINGS by ROBERT F. YOUNG It was sink or swim for Retief in this watery wonderland! If you wonder what happened to the "wonder" in your science-fiction stories -- it's in IF! Every issue packed with new, fast tales of tomorrow and space! IF brings you new stories by old masters, plus the best of today's new writers -- challenging ideas combined with skillful writing and all the adventure and thrills of interstellar space itself! The greatest names In science fiction Del Rey, Clarke, Harmon, Schmitz, Pohl, Davidson, Simak, Bloch, Keyes, Sturgeon, Galouye, Sharkey, McIntosh, Fyfe; Dickson -- they're all in IF! if #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Yes! Send me the next # big issues of IF! I enclose #. (Outside of N. and S. America add # postage.) Name Address City Zone State LUse coupon or order by letter if you wish Frederik Pohl, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Feature Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher David Perton, Production Manager John Assante, Art Director P Cover by Nodel from Guardian IP published bi-monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U. S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, Inc., New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial T he future is a pretty nice place to live. I know -- I've just been there. On certain Chicago TV stations, at the break, you'll see a photograph of a startling structure -- twin towers studded with little curved balconies -- which the Second City is using more and more as a city symbol, like Paris's Eiffel Tower, New York's Statue of Liberty, San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge. I had the very great privilege of meeting the architect -- and the dreamer, and the one-man dynamo, who is responsible for the structures known as Marina City. The towers (and a flat office building, and a #-seat theater, under construction when I saw it) stand at the edge of the Chicago River not far from Lake Michigan. Each tower begins from ground level, with a spiral ramp with a roadway wide enough for two cars and radial wings where cars are parked; this spiral rises nearly a hundred feet before the building itself begins. Altogether the towers are about sixty stories high. The central core contains elevator shafts, ' and the apartments radiate out from this core. Each has its little balcony. San Jose, California, U.S.A. Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. Name Address. Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of die powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life! Beniamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of die Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. MasLife" -- No obA nonorganizaSiiojiixjAd dres r litll L.E.W. The rooms are unusually shaped but extremely comfortable. The odd shape becomes less so when you realize how seldom, in your own square or rectangular room, you actually use the corners. More often than not you'll have an easychair shoved in there, or even a china-closet or a TV catercornered. If you cut the corner right off, chances are you wouldn't miss it. The gently rounded pie segment shape of the Marina City rooms is therefore functional and pleasing. Closet space is ingeniously placed in the apartments. The rentals are mid-range, running from # up -- not excessive for a centrally located wonder like this. So much for the Up. But down from ground level -- way down -- you will find slips for # motorboats, plus service areas, plus storage space for # more boats. T was given a guided tour by Mr. Robert Goldberg, the architect, at night. Standing between them and looking up, I was ready to swear those towers were hooked right on to the stars. And as cars pulled up and down the ramps, their headlights slashed time and again diagonally across the glass-and-concrete face of that backdrop of an office building. Beautiful. I sincerely envy him the knowledge that he will leave behind him such a durable monument. Here's the future. Buildings like this, with schools, theaters, offices and stores -- beautiful and functional buildings -- will obsolete the chrome cracker-boxes for good and all, and they should. And -- practical? Here's the thing that flabbergasted me. My house stands on about three acres. So does Marina City -- with space for two thousand people and their cars and boats, and an office building and theater to boot! You're going to see more of these. Watch for them and be glad. Jack Vance  J. T. McIntosh I ; Philip K. Dick  Willy Ley  All in the February issue of Galaxy  Keith Laamei and many more -- on sale now! IF IF  Novelette I T he summer of Matthew North's life was a dream so deep in his past that he sometimes doubted whether he had really dreamed k. Autumn had set in eons ago, it seemed, and now winter was on hand. He did not find its cold and bitter breath the least bit to his living. Once again, pale Hyperion was coming forth to meet him. Once again, resplendent Saturn was advancing in her ice-blue gown. How The weird old castle on Saturn's moon was a fortress -- protecting a dynasty and a terrible secret I many times before had mother and daughter greeted him at journey's end? How many times before had they seen his sleek jettractor emerge from the immensities with a big black egg impaled upon its prow? Too many times. Well, there would be no more times. The Bimini base was gone, and the mysterious source of the many payloads which he and the other jettractor-pilots had delivered to the House of Christopoulos down through the centuries was buried beneath the raging waters of a newbom sea. The unanticipated tectonic revolution had begun mere hours after he had blasted off from the little Proxima Centauri planet which Nick the Greek had christened "Bimini" some five hundred years ago. For a long while Matthew had been in a state of shock. Recovering from it, he had radioed the news on ahead. He could just as well have waited, though, and delivered the news by word of mouth, for while radio waves exceeded his jettractor's near-photic velocity, they did not exceed it by very much. In all probability the message had preceded his arrival by no more than a few weeks. Such proved to be the case. Message received last week, the words that suddenly spelled themselves out on the luminous bulletin-panel informed him. Establish capsule in orbit, memorize but do not record readings, then land and proceed to the Hostel , there to await further instructions . -- Zeus Christopoulos IX. "Orders acknowledged, sir," said Matthew North. "Will proceed as directed." P recisely as directed. One does not question the commands of God, no matter how unorthodox those commands may be. And to Matthew North, Zeus Christopoulos IX was God, just as the previous male descendants of Nick the Greek had been God. The fact that Matthew had never laid eyes on any of these gods argued for rather thaq against their divinity, and the fact a that he had never been permitted to set foot inside the House of Christopoulos bolstered rather than undermined his respect for them. Choosing a polar orbit of maximum altitude, he reduced the jettractor's momentum to the velocity he wanted. Then, after mentally recording his instrument readings, he disengaged the capsule and fired his retros. He watched the huge eggshaped container dwindle into the blue-black distances and fade from sight. Finally he began orbiting in. Saturn hove into sight with each crossing of the twilight belt, but each time he saw not Saturn but a rich and dazzling jewel hanging upon the Brobdingnagian cheek of the Ethiope goddess Space -- the black bitch-goddess of vast immensities and burning suns at whose cold and unfeeling feet he had laid the best years of his life. "For you, Zeus, I did this thing," he said, unconsciously lumping the successive heirs into a single entity. "For you I put my years upon the block in order that your House might never be without the precious payloads I have delivered to its door -- payloads I have never seen and do not even know the nature of. And now they are no more. "Now I have come home to die." But he had no true right to regret, and he knew it. He had put his years upon the block, yes -- but no one had forced him to, and he had not auctioned them off for nothing. With them he had bouj'U a safe little island of changelessness in the giddy onrushing torrent of time. IF N ight passed, and came the day, the pale day with its cold and distant sun and its wan, cold stars. Gliding downward along an evershrinking orbital path, firing his retros with the passing of each dawn, Old Matt North became Young Matt North again -- Young Matt North standing in a bustling bar that bewildered him, rubbing shoulders with strangely garbed, gesticulating people who frightened him; Young Matt North recently rerun, adrift in a civilization that, thanks to the Lorentz-FitzGerald contraction, had left him almost two decades behind. Beside him stood the man from the House of Christopoulos who bad spotted him from across the room. He had come over and bought him a drink and told him glowingly about the Great Opportunity. "You paint a pretty picture," Young Matt said. "I'll say that much for you." The man was young -- almost as young as Young Matt North. His cheeks were smooth and plump, and you could smell money on his breath. Zeus I was his shepherd -- he did not want. "As true a picture as it is pretty, Matthew North," he said. "The House of 'Christopoulos takes care of its spacemen. It doesn't cast them adrift between runs the way the commercial carriers do. Zeus I was a spaceman once himself -- he knows what it's like to be cast adrift. That's why he spared no expense when he built the Haven. That's why he duplicated a sane and sensible setting out of the past instead of building a modern setting. That's why he guarantees his jettractor pilots a job for life. Thus far, there are only two, and he needs but one more, but the Haven is large enough to accommodate a hundred. And it will never chaqge. The Hostel will always be there waiting for you when you return, and during your six-months layovers there will be girls for the asking, and taverns with open doors." H I t had been true -- every word of it. And it was as true today as it had been then... Old Matt North berthed his jettractor, climbed out through the locks carrying his duffel bag, and walked around the big platform-lift on which he had lowered so many capsules into the subterranean pneumotube that led to the crypts beneath the House of Christopoulos. The little port gave directly onto the single street of the Haven, and he walked down the street toward the big stone structure at its farther end. As always, the sight of the Hostel reassured him. There was a permanence about stone that could not be duplicated, a solidity that other materials lacked. Inside, there would be warmth and welcome, and more food than he could eat and more wine than he could drink. And there would be girls, too. If he still wanted them. He wondered if he did. It was mid-morning, and a cold IF wind was blowing in from the surrounding ice-flats. It outlined his spacetogs against his spare frame and ridged his skin with gooseflesh. Beyond the Hostel, the great pile of the House of Christopoulos stood massively against the gray, starstarved sky. It had been patterned after the Parthenon, but in the distance-decimated sunlight its noble Doric columns and magnificent entablature took on a pale cast that was out of keeping with the trabeate architecture. And while the force-field that played darkly between the columns let in what little light there was, it gave back nothing in return. The over-all effect was one of Gothic gloom. Usually the House awoke vague longings in the deeps of Matthew North's being. Today it did not -- perhaps because he was not really seeing it. He was seeing the girls he had known instead -- the girls he had slept with down through the decades, some of whom were old and withered women now, and some of whom had lain for centuries dead. The pretty little call girls he had had with the sweet sad swiftness of a hummingbird's flight and then had known # more... and now the room that summer dresses in new bloom was empty, and only the sporadic fluttering of the window curtains betrayed the presence of their ghosts. It was as well, perhaps -- who knew? Matthew North sighed, and walked past the tavern doors agape. He avoided the expectant looks of the villagers -- the villagers whose function it was to cater to him during his layover and see to it that he wanted for nothing, and beneath whose breasts pulsed not hearts but tiny motors that never ran down, and behind whose welcoming eyes dwelled not memories but memory banks. Only the girls had been real. The rest was technological fantasy. The interior of the Hostel had not changed one whit. Indeed, he could have sworn that the log burning in the great stone hearth was the same log that had been burning there the day he left. The hostler was no longer the same though. Matthew stared at the small and portly -- and unquestionably human -- man who came forth from behind the bar to greet him. The man smiled at his bewilderment "Zeus IX decided that human personnel could do the job better," he explained. "Taverns are one thing, but an inn needs a human touch. He offered me the building, and the keep of my wife, my daughter and myself if we would school ourselves in mid-twenty-second century lore, and condition ourselves to the early-twentieth-century way of life which the Hostel symbolizes. I agreed to do so, and here I am. Welcome home, Matthew North." Clearly, the hostler had not as yet been informed that the Bimini base was no more. Matthew did not bother to enlighten him, and allowed himself to be led over to a big wooden table that stood before the hearth. Presently the hostler's wife -- a strapping woman with eyes the hue of port wine -- brought in steaming platters of food and a tall and dusty bottle of Venerian Chianti. Matthew knew an appetite he had not known in years and ate hugely. He drank largely of the wine. It was red and fiery, and warmed his very bones. Stupor stole over him. "I would sleep," he said. T he hosteler's wife depressed a buzzer at the end of the bar, and a moment later a tall girl with shoulder-length brown hair entered the big raftered room. She was wearing cling-slacks, and short fleece-lined boots; a white plastijacket covered her arms and shoulders, fell loosely round her hips. Youth shouted from her blue, smoke-filled eyes. "Faustina will show you your room," the hostler's wife said. "Ask her for whatever you want, and she will get it for you." The girl came forward, picked up his duffel bag, shouldered it effortlessly and led the way through the side entrance to the period-piece outside-stairway. On the second step she paused and turned. "Would you like some girls perhaps?" The amusement in her eyes diminished him. He lowered his gaze to the ground. "No," he said. "Not now." She shrugged and resumed her ascent of the stairs. He followed, marveling at the smooth flow of her limbs, at her graceful strength; at the youth that was manifest in her every movement. Lord, to be young again ! he thought. He felt suddenly, horribly, cheated -- robbed of life and love. He yearned to lean upon her shoulder, to steal some of her youth and strength. He wanted to see desire in her eyes. Instead, when she lingered for a moment in the doorway of the room the hostler had prepared for him, he saw pity. She lowered his duffel bag to the floor. "There's a buzzer by the bed," she said. "If you need anything just press it." She turned and walked down the hall and out dnto the landing. He heard her footsteps on the stairs. Silence came. The room was a large one. All of the rooms in the Hostel were large. Large and empty. Over the decades he had slept in a dozen of them. He would sleep in this one now, sleep the sleep of the dead, and he would forget stars and space, and loneliness. He would forget the pity he had seen in a young girl's eyes and he would forget that the only love he had ever known was the love that the House of Christopoulos had paid hard cold cash for, and itemized on the same list on which it had itemized his bread and wine. He would forget -- for a little while, at least -- that for all the slowed-down clocks that had given him relative immortality, he was an old, old man. He added wood to the fire in the big stone hearth and turned back the sheets of the huge four-poster bed. He undressed, showered, then climbed into the period-piece bed and let his weary body sink deeply into the eiderdown mattress. He thought of Bettinger and Flynn, the other two jettractorpilots. Bettinger must have reached Bimini by now, and seen the dark sea raging where once the android settlement and the fenced-off lake had been. In a few more months -- years, if you computed the time objectively -- Flynn would arrive there. Both would return with empty capsules. Matthew sighed, and turned on his side. There was nothing he could do. The Bimini base was no more, and that was all there was to it. He thought fleetingly of the orbiting capsule and wondered why Zeus IX had not wanted it brought down; but the ways of God were by their very nature inscrutable, and not to be questioned, and presently Matthew North ceased wondering, and slept. A knock on his door delivered him up from a haunting dream of his lost youth. "Yes?" said Old Matt North, sitting up in bed. "What is it?" "You have a visitor, Mr. North." "A visitor? Who?" There was awe in Faustina's voice. "Hera Christopoulos. She's waiting for you downstairs. Hurry, Mr. North!" Fading footsteps. Silence once again. For a while his consternation held him chained. Finally, breaking free, he climbed out of bed and pulled his best suit out of his duffel bag. He got into it, trembling all the while, and wetted and combed his gray and thinning hair. The dark stubble on his cheeks distressed him -- he should have shaved before going to bed. Now it was too late. Hera Christopoulos. The wife of Zeus IX... She was tall, and coldly beautiful. Her dark eyes were set beneath delicate black flares of brows, and held in them a quality that was reminiscent of deep space. Her black hair, upswept into a twist that flowered out and spilled down like the waters of a Cknmerian fountain, stole microcosmic stars from the hearth-fire before which she statuesquely stood. A scarlet sarong, secured by a silver chain around her throat, swirled thrice around her Junoesque body and terminated in a silver band just above her right knee. She had unfastened the throatclasp that had held her ermine cloak in place, and the cloak had fallen to the flagstone floor like snow, half-burying her sandaled feet, and she stood in the snow haughtily, the firelight heightening the insolence of her naked arms and shoulders and her semi-naked legs. Entering the room, Matthew thought for a moment that he had seen her before. The absurd thought was followed instantly by the memory which explained it. Oftentimes descendants duplicated the physical traits of a long-dead ancestor. Here was a case in point. It was not Hera whom he had seen, but Diono Christopoulos -- the wife of Zeus IV, and Hera's great-great grandmother. The memory, once unleashed, ran rampant in his mind. Once n again the long-ago night closed in around him -- the night and the wine and the laughter, the girls and the synthetic gin. Once again he was forty-five and afraid. Once again the strange restlessness came over him, and suddenly the intervening years were no more and he was plunging out of the stifling Haven bar and into the wind-washed street. The coldness of the night shocked him, but he did not go back inside for his greatcoat. He welcomed the coldness. He reveled in it, and he let the icy wind wash over him as though he were a boulder lodged in midstream, delighting in the clean, clear current. Saturn was on high, a great and gleaming jewel hanging in the heavens, bathing the iceflats in bluish light and imparting to the House of Christopoulos a majesty which the daylight would destroy. Something about the storied structure tied in with his restlessness. He set off across the flats, into the river of the wind. Ill r ie building was less than a mile distant from the Haven, but the wind and the ice made the going arduous. Only the heightened sugar-content of his blood enabled him to reach the row of artificial cypress trees that paralleled the rear line of columns. Gasping, he collapsed in the lee of a gnarled trunk and massaged his numb legs. When his breath returned, he peered round the trunk -- and saw the rift. It was the result of a circuit defect in the force-field, and apparently neither Alexander the Great nor the other three roguards had noticed it as yet. It wasn't a largo rift, but it was large enough to see through. The trouble was, it was way up on the force-field wall -- just beneath the entablature. However a tall cypress stood not far away. From its topmost branches an enterprising man might obtain a glimpse of the building's interior -- if he wanted to badly enough. Matthew North did. He was at the base of the tree in a matter of seconds. Minutes later he was riding the wind on a lofty bough, chest tight from the climb, hands numb and bleeding. The rift had a pinkish cast now. The room beyond it was pink. The room was a bath. He had believed in his naivete that because the House had been patterned after the Parthenon, it must of necessity have but one floor. He saw now that such was not the case. For all the loftiness of its ceiling, the bath into which he was gazing was unmistakably a part of a second story. Apparently the rift in the forcefield wall was on the visual circuit only, for the three women in # the room seemed unaware of the cold wind. Two of them would have been unaware of it in any event, for they were not truly women. They were android handmaidens. One of them had been created in the image of Helen of Troy, the other in the image of Hecuba. So perfectly IF wrought were they, however, that he would not have guessed the truth had it not been for the names embroidered beneath the neck lines of their Grecian Tunics. The woman in the bath proper was real, though. She put to shame the flaming torch of Helen of Troy, and all but extinguished the flickering one of Hecuba. A monogram on one of the huge white towels the handmaidens were holding revealed her identity: Dione Christopoulos. Matthew could not breathe. Dark of hair and eyes, scarlet of sultry, almost sullen lips, soft-white of water-rivuleting skin, she stood up in the marble basin. He saw the full breasts, scarlet-nippled to match her lips, the gracefully flowing buttocks, the breathless slopes of gleaming thighs. As though cognizant of his presence and eager to flaunt the pastures in which he could not feed, she faced the rift lor one full minute before surrendering herself to her handmaidens. He saw the birthmark then: the purple dagger-shaft between her breasts, its blade seemingly buried in her white flesh -- At the same time, his eyes caught a movement at the base of the tree. Lowering them, he saw the roguard standing there. Saturn's iceblue light glittered on the Macedonian armor, on the long, lethal lance whose inbuilt laser tube was capable of leveling a mountain. Matthew shrank against the bough, trying to efface himself from view. He needn't have. Antigonus or Seleucus or Ptolemy -- whichever of Alexander the Great's generals the roguard was -- had eyes only for the rift and was utterly unaware of the Peeping Tom in the tree above his head. Presently he left the trunk and hurried round the corner of the House, heading for the entrance where Alexander the Great was stationed, and leaving the coast clear. Matthew reached the ground in seconds, and began running across the flats. He was spent when he reached the Hostel trembling when he climbed into bed. All night long Dione Christopoulos had walked through his twisted dreams, and he had carried a mental picture of her standing in her bath down through the years to this very moment. T he resemblance between her and the beautiful young woman standing before him in the Hostel was striking. He had heard it said that interfamilial marriages had been the rule in the House of Christopoulos ever since Nick the Greek had married an indentured chambermaid -- a peasant girl named Antonia Anzalone -- and set the dynasty in motion. Matthew had always discredited the rumor, but now he wondered if perhaps there might not be something to it. He shuffled across the room and paused humbly before his visitor, staring down at the ermine snow that lay around her feet. Should he bow? he wondered. Or should he kneel? In his indecision, he did neither but stood there like the bewildered and frightened old man he was. Hera Christopoulos looked him up and down. Her voice was as cold as the wind that blew across the ice-flats. "Where is the last capsule?" she demanded. "Why wasn't k delivered to the House?" He could not think at first, could only stand there dumbly. When at last words came, they emerged in a meaningless mumble. "What did you say?" Hera Christopoulos asked. He clenched his hands in a vain attempt to still the trembling of his fingers. Faustina appeared timidly at his elbow, bearing a tray with two cups of coffee on it, and in his agitation he seized one of them and gulped down its throatsearing contents. Belatedly, he remembered that he should have let his visitor serve herself first. Acute embarrassment all but overwhelmed him. Miserably, he returned the cup to the tray. Hera declined the other cup with a disdainful look, and Faustina hurried away. The log fire crackled, and the crackling reverberated throughout the room. "Are you dumb?" Hera said contemptuously. "Or have you only temporarily lost your tongue?" Anger sparked him into articulation, and he raised his eyes. "The capsuld is in orbit, in accordance with your husband's directions." She took a step backward, and the fluffy pile of ermine snow becarrie a windrow. The deep-space darkness of her eyes intensified. "He ordered you to put the capsule in orbit. Why? "He did not say why." "When did he contact you?" "This morning, just before I made moonfall." "I order you to bring it down." "I can't bring it down unlea Zeus IX authorizes it," Matthew said. "Zeus IX was called away on business. Quite naturally I am empowered to speak for him in his absence. I hereby countermand his order with an order of my own: Bring the capsule down and see to it that it is delivered to the House immediately." With a catlike movement she bent down and picked up her cloak. Straightening, she showered it around her shoulders. "Immediately," she repeated, and, turning, started for the door. "No," said Matthew North. "I can't." She spun around, a flurry of whiteness and woman. "I order you to bring it down!" T he commoner in Matthew quivered, and the servant in him quaked, but his loyalty to Zeus IX refused to let him retreat. "When your husband notifies me and gives me the necessary order, I will bring it down," he said, "but not before. I am sorry, but I have no right to act otherwise." "Very well then. Give me the orbital readings and I'll have someone else bring it down." Matthew shook his head. "I'm sorry," he repeated. "I can't do that either. You see," he went on, "Zeus Christopoulos IX represents more to me than just the ninth Zeus in line. He represents all the others who preceded him. I -- I have worked IP for the House of Christopoulos almost all my life. And I have come to regard my duties as a sort of sacred trust -- a trust that I could never bring myself to violate. I would die for the House of Christopoulos. I would die for you. But I cannot obey your order." She regarded him for some time, the Cimmerian fountain of her hair snowbanks of her shoulders. Thought, not anger, now resided in her deep-space eyes. At length, " I believe you would at, that," she said; and then, "Such loyalty should not go unrewarded." Surprised, Matthew said, "It has not gone unrewarded." "But it has not been rewarded in full." She glanced at the magnified dial of her ring-watch. "It is now six-twenty. At eight-thirty you will arrive at the House of Christopoulos for dinner. That is an order. Will you obey it?" Weakness came into Matthew's knees and sent his legs to trembling. His gratitude was so great that he could barely speak. "Yes -- yes, I will obey it. And thank you." "I will expect you then." She turned and walked out of the Hostel, her cloak snowsqualling around her. She climbed into the glide-car in which she had come, the glide-car hummed to life, and a moment later she was gone. IV T he Alexander the Great roguard stationed before the multi-columned entrance of the House was a product of the "realistic school" of android manufacturing. He was slightly larger than his long-dead flesh-and-blood prototype, but in all other respects he was a faithful reproduction. He possessed not only his prototype's character but his prototype's specialized knowledge as well. The look he bestowed upon Old Matt North artfully combined aristocratic arrogance and militaristic contempt. When Matthew said, "I'm Matthew North -- Mrs. Zeus Christopoulos IX is expecting me," the roguard acted as though he hadn't heard. Nevertheless, he relayed the information into the tiny radio attached to his helmet. A moment later Hera Christopoulos' imperious voice sounded crisply on the night air: "Well, let him in, you synthetic snob! I told you this afternoon that you were to pass him.'" Without a word Alexander the the Great stepped to one side and pointed toward the multicolumned facade of the House of Christopoulos with his laser-lance. Still shivering from his wind-beset walk across the flats, Matthew approached the Pentelic marble steps, all the while staring nervously up at the frieze upon which were carved bas-reliefs of the divine consorts of the original Zeus -- Metis, Maia, Leto, Dione, Demeter, Mnemosyne, Themis, and Eurynome. Above the cornice and centered beneath the peak of the gable was a big bas-relief of Hera that rather startlingly resembled the flesh-and-blood Hera with whom he was about to break bread. Flanking it on either side, in attitudes of abject adoration, were bas-reliefs of various mortals who had contributed to the glory that was Greece. Some of them he recognized from the pictured busts and sculptures he had viewed on his jettractor's librarytape: Thucydides, Heraclitus, Aristotle, Plato, Epicurus, Sophocles. One of the figures was groveling at her feet. It was a bas-relief of Homer. Night had fallen an hour ago, in accordance with Hyperion's neorotational period established some five centuries ago at the instigation of Nick the Greek. Now Saturn was climbing into the sky. Lowering his eyes from the gable, Matthew began ascending the wide marble steps. The Doric columns seemed to rise higher and higher above him. The feeling of insignificance that had afflicted him ever since he had set forth from the Hostel increased. He felt very small indeed when at last he stepped through the doorway that appeared transiently in the black curtain of the force-field, and into the enormous room beyond, and he wished that he had not come. The room occupied the entire front half. of the rectangular building. Strictly speaking, it was more of a great hall than a room. On three sides of it, the magnificent Doric columns rose up to the architrave; on the fourth side -- the side opposite the entrance -- a grand Pentelic staircase climbed majestically to a railed mezzanine, beyond which dozens of ornate doorways could be seen. The appointments were made of Pentelic marble, too -- benches tables, chairs. And in the center of the room a Pentelic marble fountain sent up an exquisite nosegay of twinkling water. High above the fountain, seemingly suspended in midair, an incongruous chandelier, wrought in the shape of a barredspiral nebula, shed soft but penetrating radiance. The ' inter-columnar force-field that so effectively concealed the building's interior from the eyes of the outsider existed here only as a diaphanous mist. Through the mist, the garish bonfire of the mile-away city of Saturnia showed like gentle candlelight. A robutler dating from the same "school" as the Alexander the Great roguard and wearing a Grecian tunic on the front of which the name Pindar was embroidered, came forward on sandaled feet. He took Matthew's greatcoat and earflapped cap, and conducted him across the room to a round marble table that stood at the base of the staircase. Passing ' the fountain, Matthew gave a start when he saw the silvery flashes that spelled the presence of Venerian piranhas. There were hundreds of them. No, not hundreds. Thousands. Hera's pets? he wondered. A fter seating him at the table, Pindar retired to the columnar sidelines. Matthew saw the other androids then. There was one standing at the base of each column. All of them IF wore tunics and sandals similar to Pindar's, and all of them save one were standing in statue-like immobility. The exception was an old "man" with a sensitive, bearded face who was regarding Matthew intently. As Matthew watched, the android left his column and came over to the table. He leaned forward, the tiny tubes that constituted his eyes alternately dimming and brightening. Matthew remembered encountering a similar reaction in one of the robartenders at the Haven. The robartender was a product of the same "school" that had produced the House of Christopoulos "personnel", and in common with all such "character" androids he could function effectively only as long as the scheme of things which he had been built to fit into remained at least reasonably in keeping with his "personal" sense of right and wrong. His sense of right and wrong was clear-cut enough. But therein lay its weakness. He believed that the three jettractor pilots should drink themselves into insensibility in his bar at least once during their layovers, and when Matthew had refused to touch a drop during one of his (he had been combatihg a peptic ulcer at the time), the robartender had suffered a mechanical breakdown, the first symptom of which had been an alternate dimming and brightening of his eyes. Matthew read the name on the old "man's" tunic. "Aeschylus?" The old "man" nodded eagerly. "Yes. Aeschylus -- overseer of baths and bedrooms." And then, "This morning, darkly plotting deep within, the monarch sleeping softly by her side, she -- " "You dare leave your post after hours!" It was Hera. Hera in a saronglrke gown that glittered with diamonds. Hera, tall and imperious, eyes abyss-dark with rage. Aeschylus stepped back,eye-tubes working furiously. "Bumbling old fool," she went on. "Get back to your column! You'll be scrapped tomorrow -- I never could stand listening to your plays anyway. They're stupid!" The old "man" turned and shuffled back across the floor and took up a stone-like stance by the column he had so recently left. Hera turned to Matthew who had risen to his feet. "I apologize for his presumption," she said. "Please sit down." Matthew did so, and she sat down next to him on the bench. There were lines of tiredness at her eyecorners -- or perhaps lines of worry; it was difficult to tell -- and her face seemed slightly thinner than it had been before. She clapped her hands. A moment later a mech-maid bearing a tray with a tall dark bottle and two flower-stem glasses on it emerged from a doorway to the right of the staircase. The embroidery on her tunic-front revealed her name to be Corinna. "Will that be all, madam?" she asked, after setting the glasses and the bottle before them. "For the moment. Begone, kitchen wench!" Corinna departed. Hera filled the glasses and handed one to Matthew. She raised the other. "A toast to your loyalty, Matthew North," she said. "May it hover forever over the House of Christopoulos like the great and shining star it truly is." T hey touched glasses, drank... The wine ignited cool fires within him. Lambent flames rose up and licked his thoughts. Was this the wine the House of Christopoulos was famous for? he wondered. The wine that Nick the Greek was reputed to have made his fortune on? Matthew did not think so. Such a wine was far too dear ever to have been distributed on the mass market. And besides, it was said that the real source of the Christopoulos fortune was the synthetic gin which Antonia Anzalone had developed in her bathtub before Nick the Greek had married her, and which the good citizens of Earth and the Seven Satraphies had been incontinently consuming ever since. Hera refilled the two glasses, and clapped her hands again -- twice, this time. Immediately Corinna and another mech-maid, whose name was Psappho, began bringing in viands. The amount and the quality of the food left Matthew speechless. The entree was Martian ptarmigan, a delicacy which he had never tasted before. With each course a different kind of wine was served, none of which he had ever tasted before either, and each of which was more potent than the last. All that saved him from drunkenness was the quantity of food he consumed. And in the end this did not save him either, for the meal proved to be no more than a foundation for the wine to come. There was red wine and blue wine and amber wine, and there was even a red wine with a greenish cast which Hera said came from the most continent and had been aged in deep space. Was there another wine, Matthew North wondered, a wine that she had not served him? -- a wine that was a product of Bimini and which had also been aged in deep space? He could not recall seeing any vineyards on Bimini, though, either during his orbits or during the walks he had been forced to take while the android personnel loaded his capsule. About all he had ever seen on Bimini were trees and more trees. That was all Bimini was, really -- or rather, all Bimini had been. A big jungle in the sky. Give or take a few lakes and rivers, of course -- and the saltwater sea that had recently kicked over its traces. The ship of small talk put into this port and that, Hera at the helm and Matthew sounding a polite note of concurrence whenever he thought one was called for. Presently it ran aground on the subject of Greek religious mythology. Hera dwelled lengthily on the Euhemeristic theory of the origin of the gods. "Then you don't think they were true gods, after all?" Matthew asked at length. She sipped her wine, set the glass back down. "On the contrary, Vm IF positive that they were true gods. The mere fact that they were once mortal doesn't mean that they couldn't have become immortal. Mortality is a necessary prelude to immortality, just as immortality is a necessary prelude to the superapotheosis which must logically follow. But aside from all that, the real proof of the immortality of the Greek gods has been staring scholars in the face for centuries. And they have been too short-sighted to see it." "I -- I guess I'm too short-sighted too," Matthew said. She laughed. It was a genuine enough laugh, but for some reason it deepened rather than lightened the lines at her eye-corners. "They lived near mortals and had dealings with mortals when they could just as easily have lived by themselves and had nothing to do with lesser beings," she explained. "Immortality, you see, is relative. Living with other immortals exclusively and avoiding mortals, they would have been unable to appreciate their superiority. Living near inferior beings and having dealings with them, they could appreciate it. It's such a simple truth that the scholars have overlooked it, the way they've overlooked so many simple truths. Scholars are stupid anyway -- almost as stupid as philosophers." She faced the staircase. "Come on out, old man," she called, "and start cleaning off the table." A n android with a block-like head shuffled out from behind the staircase. His huge face was ugly almost beyond belief. A straggly white beard dribbled down from cheeks and chin and upper lip into a mop-like tangle. Only the eyes saved the sorry visage from complete catastrophe. They were a clear, benevolent brown. The letters embroidered on his tunic spelled Socrates . He began collecting the dishes and the platters, and stacking them, his slab-like bare feet going flapflap-flap on the Pentelic marble floor. The dishes and platters stacked, he started carrying them through the doorway to the right of the staircase. His movements were slow and clumsy. There was something grotesque about the whole performance. Something pitiful. A scrap of ptarmigan had fallen to the table. Hera brushed it to the floor, and when the old "man" returned for his last load, she pointed to the scrap with the toe of her sandal. "Pick it up, old man," she said. Socrates did so, then carried the rest of the dishes and platters from the room. "Make sure you get them clean, old man," Hera called after him. For a moment Matthew felt sick to his stomach. Why Socrates? he wondered. Why Pindar? Why Corinna? However, he held his silence, and presently the matter drifted from his thoughts. All matters drifted from his thoughts. All save one... Hera was a strong and scented wind blowing through him. The wine strengthened the wind, and he found it increasingly difficult to stand against it. He swayed when the said, abruptly and without prelude, "Will you bring the capsule down?" But he did not fall. Not quite. "No," he said, "I can't." She moved closer to him, the diamonds of her sarong-gown dancing in blinding blues and whites. "You would not be bringing it down for nothing. I pay cash!" "On delivery?" he he ru'd his strange voice ask. "You are an honorable man. Your word is good enough." He swallowed. Her face was very close. It fascinated and repealed him simultaneously, but the repulsion was a form of fascination in itself -- a perverted form, perhaps, but nonetheless compelling. The thoughts that it awoke added to his drunkenness. He remembered that she was the only human being he had seen since entering the House, and he knew suddenly that they were alone, and that she had meant for them to be alone. "Do I have your word?" she asked. The dancing diamond-light of her sarong-gown half blinded him. He tried to speak, could not. His glazed eyes made speech unnecessary. She stood up. "You have not seen the mezzanine," she said. "Come, I will show it to you." V H e followed her up the marble stairs on unsteady stilts of legs. Seen from above, the enormous room brought to mind the concourse of an ancient railroad terminal. The mezzanine itself was a graceful promenade, and the walls between the doors that opened off from it were decorated with the simplest of Grecian designs. Hera opened one of the doors and stepped into the room beyond. Trembling, he followed. "My bath," she said. It was the same bath he had peered into -- how many years ago -- and seen Dione Christopoulos. He had been forty-five and afraid then. He was still afraid, but he was no longer forty-five. Nevertheless, the restlessness that had afflicted him then came back. Now he was in a position to apply the cure -- if making love to a beautiful woman who was far above his status really was the cure. In any event, it was for sale. And circumstances had provided him with the price. The trouble was, part of the price was his loyalty to Zeus IX. What was it that the capsule contained that Hera found so irresistible? he wondered. So irresistible that she could not wait till her husband returned to indulge herself? Drunk as he was, Matthew was still incapable of asking her pointblank. Wine or no wine, he was still her servant. He dared not risk incurring her ill-will. But was her motivation really important? Wasn't it enough that she did want the capsule brought down, and that only he knew its celestial hiding place? After the bath, she showed him several other rooms, the last of which was her bedchamber. It was IF a large room, and the three-dimensional murals on its walls made it seem even larger. The subject of the murals brought a blush to his withered cheeks. He had read of the rites for which the Temple of Diana at Ephesus had been famous. But reading about them was one thing -- seeing them graphically depicted was quite another. Hera was looking at him questioningly. Light emanating from the obscene murals gave her flesh a reddish cast, deepened the darkness of her eyes. He looked over her shoulder, saw the huge sleeping dais with its scarlet pillows and black counterpane. He heard the hoarseness of his breathing and he felt the pounding of his heart, and he knew all at once that in order to possess her he would betray far more than what Zeus IX represented; that, like all loyalties built on self-deception, his loyalty to the House of Christopoulos was worthless. He stood there helplessly as it came tumbling down around him. 'Til bring the capsule down whenever you wish," he said. "Yes," she answered absently, as though she had heard the words long before he said them. And then, "If you will wait outside, I will have my handmaidens prepare me." She clapped her hands. Trembling, he stepped out onto the mezzanine. Helen of Troy and Hecuba appeared, side by side, entered the loom and closed the door behind them. His trembling increased. To relax his thoughts he walked over to the marble railing and looked down into the great room below. At the fountain and the tables and the benches. At the columns, at the android standing at the base of each, as though chained. At Ictinus and Callicrates, the architects who had built the original Parthenon; at Phidias, the sculptor who had supervised the building; at Zeno, Polyclitus, Praxiteles, Homer, Parmenides, Leucippos, Aristophanes, Sophocles, Euripides, Aeschylus -- Aeschylus was looking up at him, eyes flashing on and off. Now the android left his column, crossed the floor and ascended the stairs. He walked over to where Matthew was standing and touched his arm. "Come," he said, "I will show you so that you will believe." Matthew was annoyed, "Show me what?" "I will show you," Aeschylus repeated. "Come." The blink-rate of the eye-tubes was alarmingly high. What illogicality had this old "man" stumbled upon that could have upset him so? Suddenly curious, Matthew said, "All right -- but you'll have to hurry." A eschylus led him down the mezzanine to an imposing door at the farther end. The door was locked, but Aeschylus produced a ring of keys from a pocket in his tunic and inserted one of them into the anachronistic lock. A moment later, the door swung obediently open. Following the old "man" into the room beyond, Matthew found himself in a large bath. S# Wm It put Hera's to shame. The conwater, he thought he saw a flash cave wall was one continuous muof silver. Reflection? He wondered. ral of an Elysian countryside, and it blended imperceptibly into a ceiling-mural of u blue, cloud-scattered sky. So vivid was the illusion of depth that for a moment he thought he had stepped across space and time to ancient Greece. Real grass grew beneath his feet. The bath became a quiet pool on the bank of which he stood. Two life-size statues stood on the opposite bank -- one Pan, the other, Syrinx. Syrinx was running away, and Pan was in ithyphallic pursuit. Matthew looked down at the pool at his feet. It was perhaps nine feet in diameter and had a maximum depth of about five feet. Its concave bottom consisted of white marble. As he gazed into the bluish Peering closer, he saw other flashes. He identified the shining flickering shapes as Venerian piranhas then, and suddenly sober, he drew back. The water was alive with them! Why would any man -- even a rich man who could afford to be eccentric -- want to keep Venerian piranhas in his bath? Aeschylus was pointing toward the bottom of the pool. Stepping forward, Matthew looked down into the strange blue water once again -- And saw the bones -- The grisly bones, picked clean of living flesh. The white bones that almost matched the marble basin. Femurs, pelvis; empty rib box. Dark-socketed skull. Bone-finIF gen, one of them still encircled by a ring -- a ring that bore a familiar seal. The seal of the House of Christopoulos. Or, if you looked at it with Aeschylus' eyes, the seal of the House of Atreus... Sickened, Matthew turned away. "When?" he forced himself to ask. Aeschylus faced him. As the android spoke, his blink-rate rapidly increased : This morning, darkly plotting deep within, The monarch sleeping softly by her side, She rose, and did with goblet vile Scoop death from waters rampant and carry it aloft, And pour it into this, her monarch's pool. The old "man" paused. Raising his eyes to the counterfeit countryside and lifting his arms in supplication, he went on: Come, Eumenides three, and haunt her. Dog her bloody trail! To Apollo and Athena make her flee. Come, do not wait -- Orestes is no more; Electra lurks not at this sorry bier. Beyond the cloud-cast sky where once dimly shone the sun. Only darkness can be seen. Woe unto her -- woe! Awake, ye fiends incarnate, and right this crime The indifferent gods looked down but did not see! Horrified, Matthew seized the keys which the old "man" still held in his hand, and ran from the room He sorted through them as he hurried down the mezzanine, and by the time he reached the door to Hera's bedchamber he had the one he wanted. He fitted it into the lock, and turned it. Then he tried the door. It did not give. He went loking for a visiphone. VI T he Saturnia police had to knock out the Alexander the Great and his three generals with a deactivation ray to gain entry. Matthew did not know this till he left the House hours later and saw the four "bodies" sprawled on the marble steps. Instinctively, he looked away. They brought too vividly to mind the "body" he had found by the piranha-infested pool when he had returned to the bath with the Saturnia Inspector of Police. Alexander, Ptolemy, Seleucus and Antigonus could be re-activated. Aeschylus could not be. Aeschylus had gone insane; his circuits had shorted out, blowing his eye-tubes, and all that remained of him now was a blackened shell. Perhaps, though, it was just as well. Now that the House of Christopoulos had fallen, there was no more need for period-piece androids. Nor for period-piece spacemen. Old Matt North shivered in the raw wind that was rushing across the flats. He turned up the collar of his greatcoat, and thrust his hands deep into his pockets. Dawn was beginning to edge into the sky, and Saturn had long since crept to rest. He wondered what it would be like, living in a world that had left him over four centuries behind. He could not possibly adapt himself to it. He was too old. Too tired -- A tired old man. A filthy old man. That was what Hera Christopoulos had called him when the Saturnia police had led her shrieking from her bedchamber. Disheveled, half-naked in the obscene negligee in which she had adorned herself to awaken his desire and which revealed a dagger-birthmark startlingly similar to Dione's, she had screamed the words at the top of her voice. "Filthy old man," she screamed, face white, and suddenly, shockingly, thin. " made the Christopoulos fortune -- not Zeus I It was I who deserved your loyalty -- not him. And you sold me out! Filthy old man! Filthy old Peeping Tom!" Confronted with the bones at the bottom of the drained pool, she had not even bothered to conceal her guilt. "It would only have been for twenty . or thirty more years anyway," she said. "Maybe it's better this way." Abruptly her voice rose. "It was all his fault! There would have been enough in reserve to have lasted us for another century if he hadn't squandered it, if he hadn't given it away. Given it to his mistresses. 'Would you be beautiful forever?' he asked them, and they fawned at his feet. Then he sickened of them and let them wither away, one by one, and found others to give away his years to. My years. And then he tried to cheat me out of the handful we had left. Well, I beat him there. I'm glad I fed him to the fish. I hope they dined well." She gave a hideous laugh. "I'll bet his flesh was stringy, though. I'll bet his skin was tough!" More laughter erupted from her, each burst more hideous than the last, and finally the police dragged her from the room. Then the Inspector began to question Matthew. M atthew withheld nothing. He had nothing to withhold. But the questions which the Inspector threw at him told him more than his answers told the Inspector. They told him that the condition of the bones at the bottom of the pool indicated that Zeus IX had climbed into his bath shortly after sending his message to Matthew. They told him that the House of Christopoulos had no heirs and that it would become the property of the Hyperion Satrapy. They told him that the House itself had long been a source of mystery to the Saturnia police, and that they had been eagerly waiting for years for a pretext to break into it. They told him that the Inspector was completely in the dark as to Hera's reason for murdering her husband and equally in the dark as to Zeus IX's reason for ordering Matthew IP to put the capsule in orbit. They also told him that the Saturnia authorities knew nothing about the Hyperion-Bimini shuttle, and hence knew nothing whatsoever about the nature of the Bimini cargo. Neither did Old Matt North. And now that the Saturnia authorities were going to bring the capsule down themselves and launch an official investigation, he probably never would know. Unless -- He paused on the wind-swept iceflats. Deliberately, he finished the thought: Unless he brought it down himself. Well, why not? Who had a better right to bring it down than the man who had pushed it all the way to Bimini and all the way back again? Who, indeed! He began to run. Actually, it was more of a stepped-up shuffle than a run, but it was the best that he could do. He was gasping when he reached the port, but he did not stop, and minutes later he was in his jettractor, climbing, climbing, up the dark and breathless stairway of the night and into the great star-ceilinged hall of space. He caught the capsule deftly, brought it down on a Harlequin-orbit of nights and days and dawns and set it on the lift-platform. He got out and climbed up on the platform and began examining the meteor-pitted hull. Dawn had departed. Morning was airing the first dirty linen of the day above the warped back yard of the horizon when at last he found the hatch. Owing to the capsule's present position, the metal plate was low on the hull, and this made opening it all the more difficult; but finally the final dog gave way before the hammer he had brought from the jettractor, and the plate fell free. He dug through the intervening layers of chemically-treated insulation to the inner hull, expecting to find an inner hatch. He did not find one -- he found a valve instead. Wine? Had he been playing Bacchus all these weary years? Well, he was at least entitled to a taste. The valve was a large one, and could be opened only with a wrench. He got a large one out of his jettractor and locked its jaws on the protruding valve-stem. He did not mean to turn the stem all the way, but the wrench gave him more leverage than he thought he had and far more than he actually needed, and before he knew what had happened, a stream of ice-cold liquid had gushed forth and sent him tumbling off the platform. He landed on his back and lay there dazed, the liquid pouring down on him and drenching him to the skin. Finally the coldness shocked him into consciousness and brought him gasping to his feet. Finding the wrench, he climbed back up on the platform and tried to close the valve. But in order to get a firm grip on the stem he had to move into the gushing stream, and again the force of it proved too much for him and once more he went tumbling to the ground. This time, the wrench struck him glancingly on the temple and knocked off his earflapped cap. Blackness came then, and when at last it went away the stream had dwindled to a mere trickle, and the contents of the capsule were no more. H e sat up. All around him he heard the sound of liquid running off and seeping into the innumerable crevices in the ice. Clothes dripping, he floundered to his feet. He licked his wet lips, but he did not taste wine. Jack and Jill went up the hill to get a pail of water. Day spread more invisible clotheslines in the sky and hung out more dirty linen to dry. The wind grew sharper. Hatless, he started walking down the street in the wind. Something was happening in his bones. He could not get the nursery rhyme out of his mind. Jack and Jill went up the hill to get a pail of water... Faustina saw him from the Hostel, and came forth to meet him. "Are you all right, Mr. North?" "Yes, I'm all right," said Old Matt North. Jack and Jill went up the hill to get a pail of water. "You're wet. You're cold. Let me help you to your room." "Walk up the stairs before me -- that will be help enough." Faustina obeyed. He followed, youth of her. Lord , to be young again ! he thought... and even as the thought went through his mind he felt strength flowing into his half-frozen legs and building up in his back and arms. He felt his shoulders straightening, Old Matt North did, and he felt himself growing taller, as one by one the weary fruitless years slipped silently away. The wine from the stars was no human drink: It was that heady juice called -- youth. No, Ponce de Leon never found his Bimini, but Nick the Greek found his. High up on the big black hill of time and space he found it, and the waters of it were good Young Matt North paused at the top of the stairs, and Faustina turned and faced him. The consternation in her eyes soon gave way to better things. Standing on the landing in the wind, he smiled at her. She smiled back. lack Vanee  J. T. McIntosh  Keith Laumer Ip L Dick  Willy Ley  and many men All in the February issue of Galaxy -- on sale nowl IF IF  Short Story They sought the Guardian who had defended ancient Mars -- and destroyed it l hobos rose... The two men stood outside the Martian temple. Their faces were worried. "Let's get going!" said Pym. His voice sounded distant in the thin, chill air of the red desert. "Now. The hell with getting more stuff to take back!" "One more load," said Adams. His round face was nervous, but determined. He turned and entered the high, shadowy, triangular door of the temple. Pym sighed and followed. They switched on their torches, revealing bleak stone walls around them. Echoes of their footsteps were a constant murmur in the nearly circular confines. "If I was sure about it," said Adams, "I'd be running. I'd probably beat you back to the ship. But -- I'm not sure... Pym flashed his light upward -- held it steady on a pictograph. Then he moved the light onward to the next -- and the next -- The series of huge pictographs. seventeen in all, ran around the entire inner wall of the temple, about eight feet above the floor. They were deeply graven in the rusty sandstone. They were ugly. Pym shuddered. "I'm no expert," he said, "and even  get the message." "They certainly seem to be representational," Adams agreed. "Nevertheless, they may be symbolic. That thing -- the Guardian -- may just be a god, a protective spirit, an imagined entity -- " "It's a machine ," Pym said, certainty in his voice. "Look at it, for God's sake! Why fight the obvious?..." T heir flash-beams converged on the pictograph at two o'clock from the door -- the one bearing the most detailed image of the thing which they had nervously christened The Guardian. "Apparently a dodecahedron," Adams nodded. "Gigantic -- if those are really spaceships it's destroymg -- "With round eyelets all over it," Pym said harshly, "and rays coming out of the eyelets! And there -- " his flash-beam lowered a little the ruptured ship... doesn't that give you an idea of its size?" "Should it?" Adams said. "When we don't know the size of anything else in that context? Maybe the Martians were an inch tall." Pym flashed his light at the ninefoot-high doorway. His expression, in the reflected glow, said nuts. "All right," Adams grinned. "There's still no legal limit on the size of gods." "It's too sophisticated for that!" Pym said. He turned to irony: "Quite a primitive god-image!...with eyelets, and fanning death-rays, and mathematically symmetrical!" "I admit that it may well be a machine," said Adams. "I simply refuse to conclude that it is. Or was." He turned and commenced to gather up fragments of stone urns and plaques and other artifacts from the inches-thick dust, on the floor. He stowed them in the widemouthed sack hung on his belt. His light probed here and there. He fingered a shard of vase: "Okay... they were taller." "Is?... or was?" mused Pym. "What if it's still around?" "Then, if our understanding of the pictographs is correct," said Adams, "we have every reason to feel as nervous as we do." He moved off through an inner doorway. His light flickered on the walls of a chamber beyond. "The Guardian," said Pym, staring up at the multi-faceted thing portrayed in the two o'clock pictograph. "A machine. A robot... hellishly armed. Built to detect and destroy extra-Martians life forms." He moved his light to another pictograph, in which the Guardian apparently was incinerating a multitude of scurrying tiny forms on a desert battle field. "Pve dreamed up a theory to cover that, Adams." Adams laughed. "It's your day for theories." "Brainwaves," Pym said. "A portion of the Guardian's sensory apIF paratus could be tuned to the alpha kappa of the Martian brain, with a signal generator in its recognition circuits that constantly produces the key pattern, matching it against all outside patterns received. If a pattern is picked up that doesn't jitter right, a binary computation takes place whose answer is no -- " Adams appeared at the door. "Masterful! And then the Guardian tracks down and blasts hell out of the alien brain!" He picked up a piece of pottery, put it into the sack he was carrying and moved on into another chamber. "An interplanetary war," Pym mused on, his light illuminating another pictograph. "When Mars was at the height of her civilization. She had forgotten war. Suddenly, without warning, the Invaders were upon her. Half of Mars died in the first attack." He paused thoughtfully: "Maybe the Invaders were from Planet X... the one that blew up to create the Asteroid Belt. If they knew what was due to happen, they'd sure as hell want leben sraum..." A dam's cannonade of chuckles echoed around the close, dark walls. # "Superb. What a talent for fiction!" "You," said Adams coldly, "are an unimaginative God damned anthropologist. Remember Pictograph Two? The Invaders' fleet is shown coming from the next outer planet -- " "Jupiter," came Adams's voice. "Or the thing is meant to show a swarm of bugs, like locusts, coming out of the sun, like superstition, to ruin the crops. Or it could mean... God knows what it could mean!" He came out of the chamber and dumped his filled-up sack on the floor. He clipped another to his belt. "You're a lazy bastard. Give me a hand. Stop taking my first assumptions as gospel. I should interpret the Martian mind in six hours? And, yes -- " he ' paused, in his search for more artifacts -- "I will admit that it appears to be a fleet coming from the next outer planet. Satisfied?" He moved off. "Lord, what I'd give to know!" Pym's light slowly moved along the series of huge graven scenes: "Some scientists escaped, right? They formed Mars's defensive core. While the Invaders pillaged the planet, the scientists worked. They turned the thing loose... and it -- " he swallowed, looking at Pictographs Nine through Fifteen -- "it destroyed the Invaders. Utterly. It got all of them who had colonized the surface. It got the lookout ships, in orbit. It got all the lifecraft who tried to escape. In a day." "Or a year, or a thousand years," said Adams, his voice echoing from a corridor he was prowling. "Or it never happened at all." His voice was amused. "Maybe the pictographs show what happened to the lousy bugs who came and threatened the crops. Some other bugs came along, big round ones, and they ate the baddies and saved the day!" "One big round faceted bug," Pym said. "Just one. With rays coming out of -- " Adams's footsteps had faded. He couldn't hear. Pym shivered in the chill of the temple. He looked out the door. The dark rolling dunes of Syrtis Major seemed flooded with a frosty fire; smooth shrouds of paper-thin ice made sparkling traceries of the ripples that marched down each slope into shadow. Off in the distance was the Mars , like a toy, like a silver trophy, the cyclopean stare of its nose-port fixed on the cold-starred horizon. Pym wondered what he would do if a giant robot were suddenly to rear up hugely over that horizon, humming and clicking, a thousand eyelets searching, a thousand deadly ras ready to lash forth at him as the thing's "mind" said kill... Pym took his eyes from the temple door -- away from spectral imaginings. "Too late," he said to the pictographs. "The Guardian saved Mars too late. Ninety per cent of you were dead. You declined into savagery -- wandering tribes, staring at the rubble of cities. The scientists died, and science with them. The centuries passed, and nothing was left of the greatness of Mars." He flashed his light on the last tvo pictographs: "Nothing except -- the Guardian. You remembered it, all right. It was your legendary savior. You deified it. You built this temple to it, and probably many other temples. It was your god -- but, by real God, your legends recalled it as a machine" "Bravo!" said Adams, at Pym's shoulder, and he clapped gloved hands together in applause. "You've damn near got me convinced! Happily, there are other theories." He shoved the twisted necks of two chockful sacks into Pym's hands. "All right, then. It appears that we're in great danger. I'll race you to the ship!" "Funny," Pym grumbled. "Funny." He shouldered the sacks. "Is there anything we haven't photographed?" "You want to  wait . around," ' Adams said in mock worry, "when the Guardian is on the warpath?" Pym called him a name and walked out the temple door. Adams followed after first flashing his light around for a look at the pictographs. And he wasn't smiling. T hey trudged through the steep moonlit dunes toward the Mars . It lay in the distance like a silver cigar between them and the horizon. "It might still be running around out on the desert somewhere," Pym said. They were on the brink of a long slope, one which bore the slanting scars of their previous upand-down passages. Adams started down, and the thin snap and crackle of ice made his reply unintelligible. Pym followed, balancing arms-out like a skier, digging in with the sides of his feet. They moved crabwise down and along the face of fine, crisp sand. "What?" Pym said loudly. Adams shook his head. He vanished into the pool of inky shadow IF at the base of the dune. A moment later, he reappeared, black against silver, on the up-slope of the next dune. He waited for Pym. Thirty feet behind them, twice that above them, the temple humped up out of the sand like a giant peaked cranium -- dark, silent, against the red-and-black streaked sky. Its outer surface was graven with a twisting, sinuous ornamentation -- an alien geometry. Pym plunged into shadow. The slope began to level invisibly beneath his feet. He skipped, got sort of a jumping run under him, came to a stop beside Adams. "What?" he asked again. "You've got me terrified," Adams grinned. Pym looked closely at the roundfaced man. "By God," he said, "I have, haven't I? Wipe that smile and don't kid me!" Adams nudged stiff sand with his foot, watched it skitter and tumble down into the shadow between the dunes. He raised his eyes to the temple. "Everything you said," he said, "fits my preferred interpretation of the pictographs. I hate to admit it. Let's go." "It could still be alive," Pym said. "A machine doesn't live," Adams said. "It doesn't die. There may once have been a machine. It may be rust in the sands -- and it may be targeting us. We may be crazy. Let's go." They labored upward, crunching icy sand. Behind them was the temple. Above them was Phobos. Pym studied it through half-closed eyes. A few tiny craters were visible along its twilight boundary, and it gave back a faint rust hue which faded visibly as the little moon circled further toward nightside. Soon Mars's other moon, Deimos, would bullet up over the horizon, to race the stars for mastery of the night. The men moved on toward their ship, in the silver light of Phobos, whose name meant Fear. They topped a long rise. Before them stretched a vast level area of sand. And stretching off into the night were the deep tracks left by the Mars Fs great wheels in landing. Three feet down into the sand. Thirty feet apart. A mile long, and straight as a ruler over the darkened face of Syrtis Major. Such was the mark of the first Earth ship to reach Mars, eleven hours ago. T he men struggled on through the ruddy sand. Was there somewhere a giant robot, grim and cold, watching over this dead world, waiting patiently for sign of alien brains to be destroyed at the whispered bidding of its ancient builders? For how many centuries had that been a futile search? And now -- not futile. -- wandering the red deserts, giant treads bruising sand and polar ice and the criss-crossed mud of canal bottoms ages dry -- nosing alertly, testing air, ground, radiation -- a steel bloodhound, a racing silver tower, a deadly behemoth; soundless, perhaps, save for tha whisper of steel on oiled steel, the clicks of relays. How huge? How powerful? Perhaps it would blot out the sky. Now it was sniffing toward them, somewhere out over the sands, coming faster than the wind and more silent. The whine of rising power, a to photo-cells, dispensary circuits humming, eyelets searching, probing, pinpointing, while little robot repair-machines waited in niches to swarm out at first sign of damage or wear... Did it have a brain? Could it think? Could it tell that Earthmen were not enemies? Or weren't they? To ancient, peaceful, quiet Mars, would they have come as friends?... "I was right l" gasped Adams, as they plunged down a slope. "You're right. Fm scared! It's clear as hell, now!..." "What?" yelled Pym, over the crackling of paper-ice. They reached bottom. "What else could the pictographs mean?" Adams moaned. "Bugs," said Pym sardonically. They started up the next slope... Above them loomed the robot. p'hey squalled and flopped flat on the slope of the sand-dune, and they dragged out their repeating-pistols, and they fired explosive pellets galore. The ' night flickered, roared, flared, shook, and thundered with blue explosions. Fantastic shadows were created on the rippled sides of dunes. Thin ice turned to steam and rose in boiling clouds. Sandparticles rattled and danced as concussions slammed about. The Robot stared down at them, stiffly motionless. "Its head!" Pym shrieked. "Look at it! It's the Guardian!" They concentrated their fire on the silent, huge, multi-faceted head of the robot. It seemed to regard them patiently. Their guns howled at it, at the rate of ten limited fusion blasts per second per gun. The head came off. It wobbled off its boiling metal neck, struck a brawny metal shoulder, bounced and flicked molten droplets all around and thudded heavily to the sand at the top of the dune. It rolled over once -- rolled again -- and then was st : " The sand beneath it snapped, as icon rebelled at infernal heat. Red glow faded in the darkness. The rest of the robot still stood -- headless. It had not once moved, not at all. The men gasped, stared upward, wheezed, and finally recovered their breaths. Pym sat up. He bolstered his gun. He got to his feet. Boldly, ho trudged up the slope until he stood before the silent robot. He kicked its ankle, and cried jubilantly, "So much for the goddam. lousy Guardian!" He put his foot on the face of the detached, fallen head and struck a pose as Adams joined him. Adams was frowning. He passed Pym, and inspected joints in the robot's great body. "This thing," he said, "hasn't moved for a thousand years! It's rusted solid. It's been dead for God IF knows how long." He shook his head, smiling at Pym's heroic stance. "We had nothing to fear from it... it's an absolute wreck!" "Then," repeated Pym in satisfaction, "so much for the goddam Guardian!" "Look at it," said Adams quietly. "Huh?" said Pym. "It wasn't built for speed," said Adams. "It wasn't built to fly. Obviously, it wasn't built to withstand attack... and I'm sure the Invaders were better armed than we are. I wonder if it was even built to last ." He put a hand on the thing's great, cold, quiet right arm: "It's a worker." Pym stared. Adams slapped the crude right "hand" of the Robot. "Do you know design? It's a digger -- a miner -- a rooter -- a sand-hog. Maybe it's a searcher-forwater." He shook his head: "It's not something created by aliens..." "It came for us," said Pym. "We came to i#," said Adams. He' motioned at the surrounding dunes. "We've wandered afield in our upset state. Have we taken this route before? No, I think we're a dune or two off the beaten track... "So much," said Pym hopefully, "for the Guardian." "And good luck to us," whispered Adams. They started for their ship again. They almost made it. D eimos rose... and paused in its orbit... and remembered. tion #, Title #, United Statos Code.) I Date of filing. Oct. #. #. #. Title of publication. IF Street, New York #, N. Y. #. #. Location of the headquarters or general business office of the publishers (not printers), #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. #. Names and addresses of publisher, editor, and managing editor: Publisher Sol Cohen, #I Hudson St... New York #, N. Y., Editor Frederik Pohl, #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y., Managing editor none. T. Owner: Galaxy Publishing Corp., #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. Robert M. Guinn (Sole stockholder) #I Hudson St., New York #, N. Y. #. Known bondholders, mortgages, and other security holders owning or holding I percent or mere of totaj amount of bonds, mortgages or securities: none #. Paragraphs # and # include. In cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee er In any ether fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee Is acting. also the statements In two paragraphs show the affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under whioh stockholders and security holders who do not appear upoo the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities In a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner. Names and addresses of individuals who are stockholders of a corporation which itself Is  stockholder er holder of bonds, mortgages or other securities of the publishing corporation have been Included in paragraphs # and # when the interests of such individuals are equivalent to I percent or more of the total amount of stock or securities of the publishing corporation. #. A. Total no. copies printed (net press run) : average no copies each Issue during proceeding # months: #; single Issue nearest to filing date: #. B. Paid circulation. #. To term subscribers by mail, carrier delivery or by others means: average no. copies each Issue during preceding # months: #: single issue nearest to filing da:e, #. #. Sales through a#ents, news dealers, or otherwise: average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #; single Issue nearest to filing date: #. C. Free distribution (Including samples) by mall, carrier delivery, or by other means: average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: none; single Issue nearest to filing date: none. D. Total no. of copies distributed (sum of lines Rl, B# and C) ; average no copies each issue during preceding # months: #; single issue nearest to filing date: #. I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete. Sol Cohen, Publisher. F  Short Story it was bad luck to name a planet "Eden #I -- but these men weren't superstitious I S enior Biologist Johnston looked about him with a reluctant approval : the shuttle system from the spacecraft was efficiently organized, clean and swift. True, the Service man was leaning negligently against the bulkhead, whistling the latest Service-sponsored favorite. But no one ever expected full respect from a Service man. Service men were ambitionless, restless louts with an inborn rebellion against law, whether man-made or natural. Most were bright, many pressive list of campus expulsions. Before the Exploration Drive existed these men were drifting delinquents, whether outcasts of the society or members of some rough army. Senior Biologist Johnston's nose was superior but tolerant. This Service man's behavior might be insulting, but at least the man looked well -- tanned and healthy. Perhaps this was an A grade planet after all. The Group leader was waiting on the edge of the shuttle tarmac. Senior Biologist Johnston's sense of approval grew as the man greeted him deferentially, making all the seemly gestures. "Your name?" asked Johnston on a tolerant note. "Garfield, Senior Biologist," the Group leader said, with a bow of his head. He was a tall man, and well built, though not as heavy as Service men tended to be, and almost improperly young. But he was remarkable. Johnston had fully expected this. To be a leader of a group of Service men, a man had to be remarkable. "Very good, Garfield," Johnston said graciously, but as he cast a rapid assessing glance over the compound, his sense of approval lessened. The minimum time of exploration before a Senior could be called was six M. T. months. Considering this length of time, very few buildings had been erected. Johnston, no mincer of words, said so. "Is this all you have built?" he barked. Garfield waved an apologetic arm around the green and blue vista. "Sir," he said earnestly, "this is an A grade planet. No rain falls, so you can imagine how hard it is to get the men to build shelters." "No rain?" Johnston peered down at the rich brown earth and luxuriant dark-green growth. "No rain," Garfield said simply. "But the place is riddled with underground springs. Most probably they're fed with the snow from the ranges." Johnston allowed his gaze to wander up into the distance, to where the stately white crags of mountains reared jutting from mounded green slopes. "Wind?" he asked, into the clear still air. "No wind." "Hum." The Senior Biologist chewed this notion over for a while, and then allowed a faint rebuke to enter his tone. "Most interesting -- you should have sent for a Senior Meteorologist." "The biology of the area is most interesting," Garfield murmured diplomatically, and waited. "You know something about biology?" "I specialized in it at the Service Center." Johnston stared at Garfield for a full moment, and then joined in the young man's grin. "And you wanted a few little theories tested? Humph!" Garfield's grin grew wider, and the two men began to pace slowly towards the compound. "We've set up a Service-specified laboratory," he ventured. "Good, good." Senior Biologist Johnston stopped a moment, stretching his venerable bones and crinkling his eyes in the crystal air and bright warm sunlight. When he stepped off again his stride had become springier. "I admit I can understand why you found it difficult to get the men to build shelters," he said, a sharp twinkle in his eye. An amicable relationship had been cemented. "This is definitely an A-grade planet," Garfield said, following Johnston into the laboratory. "It betters all the Service specifications. In fact -- " he hesitated -- "we would have called it 'Eden', but..." "Yes, yes, I know," Senior Biologist Johnston agreed. "Every planet they've named Eden has had its snake, indeed. A fatal flaw." "Most Edens have eventually been found unfit for human settlement," Garfield said earnestly. "And, somehow, we just didn't want to take the risk." "I see, I see," Johnston said, smiling. "And I presume no fatal flaws have cropped up yet. What about predators? Carnivores?" "There's only one true carnivore," Garfield said slowly. "The Bighead -- that's what we call it, at any rate. You'll see what I mean: the animal has the biggest head I've ever seen. All muscles and teeth J ohnson frowned. "Only one carnivore?" "Yes." Garfield pulled up a chair for the Senior Biologist and straddled another, his tanned young face enthusiastic. "Let me give you the picture," he said. "The vegetation round here -- I suppose you noticed. It's incredibly luxuriant. Very fast growing, and completely herbaceous. Yes," he said to Johnston's startled expression. "No secondary thickening at all." Silently, disbelievingly, Johnston pushed aside his chair and went to the window. There was a long silence as he stood with his back to the room, and then when he spoke his voice was hushed. "No trees. Not a tree anywhere." "That's right, sir," Garfield said. "But when you think about it, it's logical. No wind, no rain, a temperate climate with no extremes of heat or cold -- no shelter needed." "But light." Johnston turned, red cheeks aglow, an excited hand pulling at his dandy little white beard. "There must be competition for light. This is most interesting." "Yes." Garfield bent forward. "You see, this sort of environment favors one particular type of animal." "The ruminant," Johnston said, his voice hushed. "Yes? Yes?" "Yes," Garfield said triumphantly. "Herbivorous animals -- millions of them, and the variation! You've no idea. And fast! There's one rather like a horse that Pd like a few races, and I could sit back in luxury for the rest of my days." "And these animals have only one enemy?" "That's right. The Bighead. One of my lieutenants -- Parr -- is an amateur paleontologist, though, and he got interested in the fossils round here. Plenty of them, too, all in excellent condition. And there's plenty of different types of carnivores." Garfield gestured towards a large number of ancient bones, all neatly laid out on the bench behind him. Excitedly Johnston poked around them, weighing skulls in his hand and testing sharp teeth. "Interesting, interesting," he muttered, aligning limb bones. "It looks as if they were fast," he said critically. "But not fast enough," Garfield interrupted. "You've no idea -- you must see these herbivores." "Hum," the Senior Biologist said thoughtfully. "So these carnivores became extinct, eh?" "Except for the Bighead," Garfield said, following Johnston to the door. "They -- Johnston had stopped so abruptly that Garfield crashed into him. "Sorry, sir!" Garfield began to laugh IF but then his eyes followed the line of Johnston's rigid gaze, and his humor died a nervous death. Tempting brown bodies played in the distant sun. "What -- is -- this?" The words were terrible, threateningly spaced. arfield coughed. "They're women, sir." "Women!" "Uh, yes, sir. They came out of the hills six weeks ago." "Six weeks! And have you informed Central?" Garfield coughed again, and the Senior Biologist turned a frosty eye on him. "No?" he barked. "Why not?" "Uh, I knew you were coming, sir, and I thought that -- " "You thought! And tell me, young man, is it in your orders to think?" "No, sir," said Garfield miserably. "Humph! Well, I'd better have a look at these -- these women ." The word was incredibly scornful, but Garfield, hurrying after Johnston's stumping form, .could not see why. The women were not beautiful, but that aura -- Maybe their faces were flattened and featureless, but those silky clouds of hair, so caressing... Maybfe their bodies were soft and blurred, but those delicious curves... And maybe the women were certifiable imbeciles, but that animal magnetism... "They are attractive," the Senior Biologist said strangely, peering at the poised, aware bodies. "Attractive" was hardly the word for the jellifying effect that these bodies had on men. "They'd put the Visagram girls out of business," Garfield allowed. "It's a quality that manufacturers of perfume have been trying to sell for centuries. You see what I mean?" Johnston, thoughtfully stroking his beard, turned an alert eye on him. "I'm an old man, Garfield," he said, twinkling. Garfield grinned. Evidently he was forgiven. "They're stupid, of course," he said. "Language?" Garfield shook his head. "A certain range of noises," he said, "and a limited number of facial expression. One of them is slightly more intelligent -- I've trained her to do a little housework." He raised his voice. "Tania! Tania!" One of them looked up and glided smoothly over, with rich movements of her buttery body. "Remarkably humanoid, eh?" said Garfield, a master's pride in his voice. "I've called her Tania." "So I noticed," Johnston said dryly. He began to amble away, bending over every now and then to poke around in the vegetation, but then stopped and looked back as the women began to raise themselves and point, crying out with hoarse, excited voices. A brown herd blurred across the plain in the flick of an eye. "They're fast!" the Senior Biologist exclaimed in tremendous surprise. Then he saw that one shape, one brown segment of the herd, was dragged back, slowing, separated from its fellows. It lunged, straining forward, heaving in distant fright "Aw -- ah! Aw -- ah!" the women began to cry in chorus, leaping up and down. Johnston began to run toward that distant struggling shape, pulling at his beard with an excited hand and cursing his old heart. A purring disturbance of the air, and Garfield materialized alongside in a zoomer, shouting. Johnston thankfully climbed up beside him. "It's a Bighead," Garfield shouted. He slammed the zoomer into slow motion, so that they could approach the struggle without disturbing the Bighead. Johnston had a momentary vision of the herbivore hauled down on its hindquarters, raising its long thin nose to the sky in a high-pitched violin scream as they flickered over the vegetation, and then they materialized beside the fight. The Bighead raised a huge, blood-dripping skull and reared back in sneering fright. And then it disappeared. Ran right off the horizon before the mind had registered that it existed. It had six legs. # C TV yT y God, it's fast," Johnston "The fastest thing on this planet." Garfield signed to the zoomer to stow the body of the slaughtered herbivore, and then kicked it into the homeward route. "Faster than all the herbivores?" Johnston asked as they materialized on the compound. "Yes. And it kills them wholesale.' From most of them it doesn't eat a mouthful, even. It seems to be activated by a lust for massacre. That's how we get our meat," Garfield said apologetically, and Johnston looked back to see that the zoomer had left the carcass in the cookhouse yard. "It's perfectly healthy, really -- and we wouldn't have a hope of catching any of those herbivores." "Quite so, quite so," said Johnston thoughtfully. "The Bigheads kill a lot of animals?" "Yes. Hundreds. The only reason the herbivores aren't wiped out is and very few Bigheads." "Then what happens to the carcasses?" Garfield stared at him. "There aren't any birds," Johnston pointed out. "And no other carnivores." "Well," said Garfield slowly, "I suppose the Amoebans get rid of them." "What?" Garfield grinned. "Come and see." They climbed down from the zoomer and walked over to the cookhouse yard, pausing at the fence. The cook was standing on the step, berating a large jelly that was extending a sly pseudopod toward the carcass of the herbivore. The pseudopod guiltily retreated. "Hi," said the cook when he saw them. "Titus is getting greedy," he said, in excuse for the jelly. He called to someone inside, and another man came out with a bucket of offal and bones, which he emptied onto the ground beside the Amoeban, talking to it as he did so. Titus slid rapidly on top of the pile, and IF settled down with a contented squish. # And keep off our good meat," said the cook, shaking an admonitory fist. With frequent and paternal backward looks the two men disappeared inside. "See?" said Garfield. "I thought you told me that there was only one carnivore," Johnston said severely. "Oh, come now," Garfield objected. # You can't call an Amoeban a nasty word like that -- can we, Titus?" He walked over to the creature and poked a doting finger into its protoplasm. It squiggled. # 'Amoeban is not a bad title," Johnston observed. "It's very amoeboid." "A much higher level of intelligence, of course," Garfield said. The Senior Biologist grinned. "Enough to inspire extreme and unwarranted affection from otherwise rational men." H e bent over the creature, studying it. It appeared to be typically amoeboid, if gigantic, distinguished only by its peculiar diet. The bones and offal were being rapidly absorbed. As Johnston watched they were completely surrounded by the jelly of the creature's body. Then he began to stroke his beard with a puzzled gesture. Vacuoles were forming round the food, widening and expanding as digestive juices were secreted, becoming large bubbles of fluid -- and the food, even the bone-matter, was dissolving. In five minutes all trace of the food was gone, and all that was left were the bubbles of yellowish fluid. "Fast," said Johnston thoughtfully"Titus? Why, he's as slow as a Service man after a night on Mars. Oh," said Garfield, "the digestion. I see what you mean. He'll eat as much as you'll give him, too -- and he gets plenty. I've, seen him at night twice his usual size with the big vacuole full of digested food inside him, but by morning it's all gone." "All?" said Johnston thoughtfully. "All." From then on Johnston showed an unnatural interest in Titus, being found most times sitting on the ground beside the creature, even in the dark of the evening -- an unnatural interest, because there was so much else to occupy him. Why, he didn't even bother to study the women, although they were the cause of his second argument with Garfield. "Garfield!" he shouted one day, bursting into the laboratory. "Garfield!" "Yes?" Garfield inquired mildly, looking up from a microscope. "Has Titus run amuck?" "Garfield! Did you know your men are -- are cohabiting with those women?" Garfield flushed. "Yes," he said quietly. "And what is the meaning of allowing them to do such a thing?" "It seemed harmless," Garfield murmured. Johnston's shout set the microscope swinging on its mounting. "Harmless! And intermarriage of humans and Venusians has only been allowed fifty years!" Garfield's eyes were steady. "Try and understand," he said. "My men are not angels -- very far from it. The last planet we explored was like most of them -- a livid hell. So when they get an A grade planet I allow them to take full advantage of it. Full advantage," he repeated for emphasis. "Oh, my God," said Johnston, and sank limply onto a stool. "Do you realize that three of those women are pregnant?" he demanded. "Yes." Garfield's eyes flickered a moment. "I must admit it was a shock," he said. "I hadn't expected that conception could take place -- they're so obviously a different species." He was silent a moment, and then his next words were very quiet. "Tania is pregnant too." I t took a moment for the significance of this to occur to Johnston, but when it did he groaned. "Oh, my boy, not you too? Didn't you know that relations with a humanoid species is forbidden until a full series of tests is carried out?" "I realize that," Garfield said calmly. "But as I see it the worst risk is that the -- offspring -- will be as imbecile as the mothers. There is also the possibility that our intelligence will be combined with their peculiar attractiveness. In any case, I take full responsibility for the whole business." He turned back to the microscope in dismissal, but the S-n ; or Biologist remained on his stool. "I shall notify Central," he said heavily. There was a long silence, and then Garfield turned back to the Senior Biologist -- not to continje the argument, but to discuss his latest finding. "Very interesting," he said, waving a hand at the microscope. "Parr has been poking round the hills after fossils, and he found a series of caves, all with a peculiar brown vegetation growing on the floor. Look." He snapped a switch on the side of the microscope, and an image flicked onto the screen. It was a foliose organism, a dark reddish brown -- about the color of liver -- and, judging by the scale at the side of the image, about three feet high. It was lichen-like, crisp and shiny, and abundantly and dichotomously branched. Garfield adjusted the coarse focus, and the image distended rapidly until individual cells could be seen. It was definitely animal. The cells were round, blurred and without cel! walls. "Interesting," said Johnston, staring and stroking his beard. "I've never come across anything like that before." "I've been analyzing it," Garfield said, his eyes alight with discovery. "Very strange. The outer boundary of each cell is protoplasm, all right, but the interior is either glycogen or a peculiar jellified amino acid." Johnston's frown was tremendous. "Stored protein?" he muttered. "In a digested form?" The idea was so puzzling that his eyebrows climbed up and down rapidly, like fluffy white caterpillars unsure IP whether to be star I #d or tremendously thoughtful. Garfield and Johnston discussed this engrossing subject for a while, wondering about the mode of life of such an animal, but were able to make nothing more of it. And one night a week later something happened that put the problem right out of their minds. Johnston caught a Bighead. H e was crouched by Titus, studying him with the aid of a light, as it was much later than usual, and quite dark. Behind him was the reticulated wire fence, and suddenly, shockingly, this crashed and collapsed under a tremendous onslaught. The Senior Biologist had had no warning at all. Not a single sound had reached his ears. One moment he was peacefully communing with Titus -- and the next, out of a clear black sky, he was presented with a Bighead, howling slathering into his face, with two of its great fangs entangled in the wire. The Senior Biologist could have forgiven his old heart if it had quietly given up the job then and there, but instead it thumped erratically on; and he ran into the kitchen and fetched a longhandled knife and killed the Bighead. It was a tremendous event. Within minutes the whole Group was crowded around him, creating bedlam and staring at this legendary animal. The head was huge, fully a third the size of the body. The eyes were frontal, like a man's, so that vision was telescopic and three-dimensional, and the slit-shaped pupils were distended within a red rim of iris. The body was lean and very muscular, with great driving pistons of middle and hind legs. The front legs were evidently manipulatory, for they were held up on either side of the head like the palps of a spider, and they were curved, and armed with huge tearing claws. Johnston noted this much in a single glance, and then, tearing at his beard with a wildly excited, blood-spattered hand, he ordered that the body be carried into the laboratory. This was done, and he locked himself inside. He remained there three days, admitting no one, not even Garfield, and opening the door only for trays at mealtimes. On the morning of the fourth day he called for Garfield. The Group leader hurried inside, expecting to be told of great discoveries, but Johnston merely waved him over to the dissection bench, where the fully opened animal lay under the preservative lights -- and then left the laboratory and went to bed. When the Senior Biologist returned in the late evening, with a refreshed look in his eye, and his beard washed, dried, brushed and dandy again, it was a thoroughly puzzled Group leader who met him. "Is it all there?" Garfield asked. Johnston nodded. "So you found the discrepancies?" he said, pedantic with an inner excitement. "Yes. But I don't understand -- don't understand!" Johnston twinkled. "Get the zoomer and come over to the cookhouse yard," he said. "Quickly. I'll answer questions later." When Garfield arrived with the zoomer Johnston was in his habitual position, crouched comfortably on the ground beside Titus. He looked up and waved, and then climbed up beside Garfield. "Don't laugh," he said. "But Titus is going to move soon -- and fast. Set the controls to follow him." Garfield did so, and then both men sat back in silence, staring down at the slight gleam of the amoeban, each occupied with his thoughts: Garfield gropingly, trying to understand, and Johnston concentratedly, going over each facet of his theory again and again. They waited an hour, and in all that time Garfield spoke once, helplessly. "But how could it live? How can an animal live without a digestive system?" Finally the zoomer gave a queer little shudder, disorientated, and Garfield looked down to see Titus extending tentative pseudopodia in all directions. Finally the right one was found, and the amoeban slithered into one long groping trickle. It seemed to gather itself, faintly gleaming -- and then, shockingly, the zoomer screamed into overdrive, and the Amoeban was a silvery flash streaking across the plain. T he zoomer growled, flickering after Titus into the hills, but was hopelessly outpaced. When it materialized the Amoeban had been at its destination many microseconds, and now it was in its usual sluggish form, lying jelly-limp outside a cave. Garfield neutralized the zoomer, and it hovered motionless above the Amoeban. He then looked inquiringly at Johnston, but the Senior Biologist gestured to him to remain still and silent. For a long series of minutes it seemed as if nothing was happening, but then a faint flick of movement caught Garfield's eye. And into the phosphorescent glow cast by the zoomer jerked one of Parr's "plants" -- the liver-brown foliose animal. With painful slowness it moved, jerking in little hops and leaps towards the Amoeban. Then, several laborious moments later, it was leaning against a pseudopod, and with a final little hop it flicked onto the taut membrane. "A parasite?" Garfield whispered. "Hush." The protoplasm of the amoeban was beginning to slither wetly, so that the foliose animal on its back was carried further into the center. Then abruptly, the shimmering flowing stopped. The foliose animal was directly above the huge vacuole of yellowish digested food. Again the scene was suspended, and it looked as if nothing was happening -- but the foliose animal was slowly, imperceptibly swelling, and the vacuole was equally slowly contracting. Barely had Garfield registered this than the protoplasm of the Amoeban began to flow again. A long pseudopod formed, and Titus slithered sluggishly into the cave, still bearing the foliose animal on his back. IF "Now," said Johnston, "I shall tell you my theory." "Shouldn't we go in there?" Garfield suggested. The Senior Biologist regarded him with a sharp eye. "It's unnecessary," he said. "I've seen it before." Garfield relaxed, frowning into the green glow of the controls. "You have told me," Johnston began, "that originally there were many carnivore species, but they all failed to adapt to the tremendous speed which the herbivores could attain. All except one -- the Bighead. "In that cave, young man, the foliose animal is finishing its meal, extracting all the digested food from the Amoeban. Then, as you noticed, it will store this food, producing branches in which to keep all the glycogens and jellified amino acids. Then along will come -- yes, look -- " There was a brown flash across the glow of the zoomer, zipping into the cave. " -- a Bighead. This Bighead will eat the branches of the foliose animal. For this is how the Bighead adapted. "One day," said the Senior Biologist lazily, long fingers gentle and reflective on his beard, "I shall make a study of how much the possession of a digestive system slows the organism down. At the moment all we know is that in times of emergency, when the body must reach its highest peak, the digestive system is shut down. In order for the body to reach top speed all digestion must stop. And to that common piece of knowledge I can add another -- that in order to become faster than the herbivores, the Bighead had to discard its digestive system. And how did it do that?" "How?" Garfield's voice was a whisper. "By some means -- I suspect a mutation -- it split into a number of animals." w hat! "   "Yes, yes," said Johnston indulgently. "I know: it doesn't make sense. At first I refused that theory, too, and considered that this was a complex example of symbiotic relationship. But now I know that the Bighead, the Amoeban and the foliose animal are all one creature. It's just division of labor carried to an extreme. The Bighead is the obtainer of food, the jaws and muscles of the creature. It has the speed, given, as you saw, by tremendous muscles and bone structure, and huge lungs and heart. And its function is to catch and kill the prey, leaving the carcass for the next part of the creature to deal with. "The Amoeban is the stomach -- the digestive system. Its job is to absorb and digest the carcass, collecting the digested food in a vacuole for the next part of the creature. "And, of course, the foliose animal has the function of storing the food. So that when the Bighead eats its branches, it gets predigested food in an assimilable form." Johnston finished abruptly, turnirg a smug gaze on Garfield for admiration. "Amazing!" "Yes," Johnston allowed. There was a long silence. "But how are you going to prove it?" "Prove it!" The Senior Biologist was flabbergasted. ("Yes. Prove that it is all one animal, and not a symbiotic relationship." T he Senior Biologist laid careful fingers across his beard. "That will be difficult... It depends on what stage the animal splits -- if I could see a foetus..." Johnston sat bolt upright. "A foetus!" Garfield stared at him, with the same stunning thought. "The reproductive system," he stuttered. "The Bighead didn't have a reproductive system." The fingers in Johnston's beard were agitated now. "The reproductive system Maybe the hormones slow the system down... but which part of the animal has the reproductive function?" Garfield's voice was hushed. "Maybe none of them have. Maybe there's another animal -- one we haven't seen yet -- the one that has the reproductive function -- " The men stared at each other, and then down at the cave, wildly trying to imagine what weird, budding, fissioning creature could be the reproductive phase of the creature. And as they watched, there was movement in the mouth of the cave, and a smooth form appeared, richly pregnant with new life. Tania came out of the cave. by Murray Leinster Complete novel of comedy and adventure t on a far-off world by Robert F. Young -- and many additional stories and features by your favorite science-fiction writers -- all in the February Worlds of Tomorrow, on sale now! IF IF  Novelette ( A Relief Story  .  I ,  . t t . '   . I Retief feared neither man nor alien .  . though sometimes he couldn't tell which was which! I C onsul-General Magnan clutched his baggy chartreuse velvet beret against the blast of air from the rotor of the waiting heli and beckoned Retief closer. "I'll be candid with you, Retief," he said from the side of his mouth. "I'm not at all happy about leaving you here as deputy chief under a Groaci superior. The combination of unpredictable elements is an open invitation to disaster." "I've never known disaster to wait for an invitation, where our Groaci colleagues were concerned," Retief commented. "Naturalizing a Groaci was irregular enough in itself," Magnan went on. "Tendering him an appointment in the Corps smacks of folly." "Don't underestimate the boys at headquarters," Retief said cheerfully. "Maybe this is just the first step in a shrewd scheme to take over Groac." "Nonsense! No one at HQ would want to go on record as favoring such a policy..." Magnan looked thoughtful. "Besides, what does Groac have that we need?" "Their cast-iron gall would be a valuable acquisition -- but I'm afraid that's the sort of intangible that will elude the wiliest diplomacy." Magnan pursed his lips. "Take care, Retief. If anything goes awry, I'll hold you fully responsible." The senior diplomat turned to the other staff members waiting nearby on the tower-top helipad, moved among them shaking hands, then scrambled into the heli. It lifted and beat its way eastward against a backdrop of luminous violet. Behind Retief, the voice of Vice-Consul Wimperton rose to a shrill bark. "No want um basket! No need um beads! Want um heavy metal, you blooming idiot!" Retief turned. A short-legged, long-torsoed local draped in a stiff lime-green garment stood roundshouldered before the Commercial Attache, dwarfed under a load of fancifully beaded baskets. "No want um?" the Poon enquired in a voice that seemed to thrum in his chest. "Plenty too cheap -- " "Nobody want um! How many times do I have to tell you, you bug-eyed -- " A curtain twitched aside from a narrow doorway; a spindle-legged Groaci in Bermuda shorts, argyle socks and a puce and magenta aloha shirt peered out. "Mr. Wimperton," he said faintly, "I must request that you refrain from abusing the locals so loudly. I have a splitting headache." T he deck lifted, creaking, and sank gently back. The Groaci put a hand against his midriff and clutched the doorframe. His name was Dools. He was new in his post -- as well as in his citizenship. "My, that was a dandy," Wimperton said. "Felt like my stomach came right up and bumped my chin!" "I'm sure we're all aware of the motion, Mr. Wimperton. All too aware," Dools whispered. "Say, you don't look at all well, Mr. Consul-General," Wimperton said solicitously. "It's this constant rocking, up and down, to and fro. You can never tell which way the tower will lean next." "Yes, yes, a penetrating observation, Mr. Wimperton." The ConsulGeneral tilted two eye-stalks toward Retief. "If you'd step inside a moment, Mr. Retief?" He held the curtain aside, let it drop behind Retief. Late sunlight filtering through the open-work walls of the Consulate IF i splashed a checkered pattern across colorful rugs of kelp fiber, low couches, desks and chairs of woven wicker work. Consul-General Dools looked at Retief nervously. "Mr. Retief," he said in his faint voice. "Now that our previous chief, Mr. Magnan, has departed, I, of course, find myself in charge." He paused while the floor lifted and sank; his eye-stalks waved sickeningly. "As a newcomer, perhaps you've noticed certain... oh... irregularities in our little organization here." Four of his eyes studied different corners of the room. Retief said nothing. "I wished merely to caution you: It would be unwise to evince excessive curiosity..." Retief waited. The tower leaned to the steady pressure of the rising gale. The floor slanted. ConsulGeneral Dool clung to a desk, his throat-sacs vibrating. "There are many ways," he started, "in which accidents could befall one here." The floor sagged, rose abruptly. Dools eulped, threw Retief a last despairing glance and fled as Wimperton came in, still muttering. He looked after the departing Groaci. "Consul-General Dools isn't a very good sailor," he commented. "Of course, in the week you've been here, you haven't seen a real blow The native peddler poked his round head through the door hanging, padded across the room on large, bare webbed feet and paused before Retief. "You want um basket?" The round, amber-and-olive patterned face gazed hopefully at him. "I'll take that one," Retief said in the native language, pointing. The wide lipless mouth stretched wide in the local equivalent of a delighted grin. "A sale! I was beginning to think you High-Pockets -- excuse me, sir -- you Terries were tighter than weed-ticks in a belly-button." He lowered his wares, . extracted the basket. "You shouldn't encourage him," Wimperton said snappishly. "For months I've been indoctrinating him to bring in some gold nuggets. The land-masses are practically solid with them -- but no, they build their town on a raft of seaweed in mid-ocean and weave baskets!" "They evolved in the weed," Retief said mildly. "And if they lifted the embargo on gold, in six months the planet would be swarming with prospectors, dumping their tailings into the ocean. They like it the way it is. The Poon caught Retiefs eyes, jerked his head toward the doorway, then ducked out through the door hanging. R etief waited half a minute, then rose lazily and stepped out on the wide observation deck. All around, lesser towers, intricately patterned, rose from the miles-long mat of yellow-green seaweed far below, moving restlessly with the long ocean swells. Sea fowl with weed-colored backs and skyblue undersides wheeled and IF screamed. Between the raying pinnacles, a spiderweb complex of catwalks swung in hundred-yard festoons. A continuous creaking of rattan filled the air. Far away, the white-flecked surface of the open sea was visible. Retief crossed to where the Poon waited by the stairwell entry. "You seem like a good fellow," the peddler said as Retief came up. "So I'll give you some free advice." He glanced around at the colordrenched sky. "There'll be a Big Blow tonight. Get down below -- don't waste any time." He hitched at his load of baskets and turned to the stairs. "And don't bother to tell those clowns." He jerked his head toward the Consular offices. "They're bad medicine." He bobbed his head and was gone. Retief threw a sharp glance at the clouds, got out a cigar and lit up, turned from the rail. A tall, broad-shouldered man in a somber uniform stood by the catwalk mouth, looking Retief over. He came across the close-woven deck and thrust out a large, welltanned hand. "My name's Klamper, Planetary Monitor Service. I guess you're the new man." Retief nodded. "Let me give you some advice. Watch out for the natives. They're sly, tricky devils." He paused. "You were talking to one just now. Don't let him lure you into going down into the native quarter. Nothing down there but natives and dark holes to fall into A helluva place for a Terry. Knifings, poisonings -- nothing there worth climbing down thirty flights of wicker steps to look at." Retief puffed at his dope stick. The wind swirled the smoke away. "Sounds interesting," he said. "I'll think it over." "Plenty to do right up here in the Consulate tower," Klamper said. "I guess you've seen the Tri-D tank -- a twenty-footer -- and the sublimation chamber. And there's a pretty good auto-banquet. And don't over look the library. They've got a few dandy sense-tapes there; I confiscated them from a Joy-boat in a twelve mile orbit off Callisto last year." The constable got out a dopestick and cocked an eye at Retief. "What do you think of your Groaci boss, Consul-General Jack Dools?" "I haven't seen much of him. He's been seasick ever since I got here."  "First time I ever ran into a "A naturalized Terry, I hear. Well, maybe he hasn't got all five eyes on an angle -- but I'd say watch him." Klamper hitched up his gun belt. "Well, I'll be shoving off." He glanced at the stormy sky. "Looks like I've got a busy night ahead." Retief stepped back into the office. A small, round man with pale hair and eyebrows looked up from the chair by Wimperton's desk. "Oh." Wimperton blinked at Retief. "I thought you'd gone for the day." He folded a sheaf of papers hurriedly, snapped a rubber band around them, turned and dropped them in the drawer of the filing cabinet.   nipping along to Dorm Tower, I believe, before the wind gets any worse. This breeze is nothing to what we get sometimes. I'd suggest you take care crossing the catwalk, Retief. It can be dangerous. In a cross-wind, it sets up a steady ripple." His limber hands demonstrated a steady ripple. "Other times it seems to float up and down." He eyed Retief. "I hope the motion isn't bothering you?" "I like it," Retief said. "As a boy, I had ? habit of eating candy bars -- you know, the sticky kind -- while standing on my head on a merry-go-round." Wimperton's eyes stared fixedly at Retief. A fine sweat popped out on his forehead. "Feels like it's building up, all right," Retief said genially. "Feel that one?" A distant, thoughtful look crept over Wimperton's face. "It's good and hot in here, too," Retief went on. "And there's that slight odor of fish, or octopus, or whatever it is... "Uh... I'd better see to the goldfish," Wimperton gasped. He rushed away. Retief turned to the round-faced man. "How was your trip, Mr. Pird?" "Ghastly," Pird piped. His voice sounded like a rubber doll. "I visited continents One and Two. Bare rock. No life higher than insects, but plenty of those. You know, it never rains on Poon. All five continents are deserts, and the heat -- " "I understood the Zoological Investigation and Liaison Council Headquarters had financed a couple of wild-life census stations over there, Retief said. "To be sure, facilities were prono volunteers have come forward to man them." Pird smiled sourly. "A pity. Consul-General Dools has expressed a passionate interest in wildlife." Pird grabbed at a paperweight as it slid across the desk-top. The walls creaked; wind shrilled, flapping the door hanging. The floor heaved and settled back. Pird swallowed, looking pale. "I believe I'd best be going," he said, starting toward the door. "Hold it," Retief called. Pird jerked. His eyes blinked. "Aren't you going to warn me about anything?" Pird stared for a moment, then scurried off. A lone, Retief stood with braced feet in the Consular office, gloomy now in the eerie light of the stormy sunset. He crossed to the filing cabinet, took a small instrument from a leather case and went to work on the lock. After five minutes' work, the top drawer popped out half an inch. Retief pulled it open; it was empty. The second contained a dry sandwich and a small green flask of blended whiskey. In the bottom drawer were four dog-eared copies of Saucy Stories, a prospectus in full-dimensional color illustrating Playtime on Paradise, the Planet with a Past, glossy catalogs describing the latest in two-seater sport IF helis and a fat document secured by a wide rubber band. Retief extracted the latter and opened the stiff paper. It was an elaborately worded legal instrument. In the fifth paragraph he read: "... whereas such body is otherwise uninhabited , unimproved, and subject to no prior claim filed with the proper authorities as specified in paragraph # A (#) above, and; Whereas claimant has duly established, by personal occupancy for a period of not less than six Standard Months, or by improvement to a value of... Retief read on, then removed the elaborately engraved cover sheet of the document, folded the rest and fitted it into an inside pocket. Outside, the wind rose to a howling crescendo; the floor shuddered; the walls tilted precariously. Retief took a magazine from the drawer, fitted the document cover over it, folded it and snapped the red rubber band in place, then replaced it in the drawer and closed it. The lock seated with a snick. He left the consulate and crossed the swaying catwalk to the next tower. II R etief stood in the doorway of his room, smoking a cigar. Pird, just starting down the stairway, clucked. "Better hurry, sir. Everyone else has gone down. The wind is rising very rapidly." 'Til be along." Retief looked down the empty corridor, undulating in the dim late-evening light, then went along to a curtain-hung doorway and stepped out onto a windswept balcony. From it a swaying wicker catwalk launched itself in a dizzy span to the Consulate Tower, a hundred yards distant. A dim light winked on in the consular offices, moving about slowly. Retief watched for a moment, then turned up the collar of his windbreaker and stepped off into the dark tunnel of the wildly swinging passage. The gale buffeted at it with a ferocity that had increased even in the quarter-hour he had spent in the Dorm Tower. The sky had darkened to an ominous mauve, streaked with fiery crimson. Below, lights sparkled all across the lower levels. The last fifty feet of the crossing was a steep climb up the sagging catwalk. Abruptly the catwalk dropped three feet and came to a stop with its floor canted at a sharp angle. Retief steadied himself, then went on, climbing now. Ten feet ahead, the yellow and blue hanging at the end of the passage was visible. It moved. The slight figure of Consul Dools appeared for a moment, wrapped in a dark poncho, then whisked back out of view. Retief made another two yards against the bucking of the sloping passage. He could hear a rasping now, a harsh sawing sound. A wedge of electric-purple sky appeared through the wicker roof ahead. It widened... With an abrupt crackling of breaking fibers, the end of the catwalk broke free and dropped like an express elevator. Retief locked his fingers in the twisted rattan and held on. The face of the tower flashed past. Retief slid two feet and caught himself with his torso half out the open end. Air shrieked past his face. A foot from his eyes, the severed end of the supporting cable whipped in the screaming wind -- cut clean. Retief looked down and saw the massed lights of the native section swooping up to meet him. A wall rushed close; Retief felt the whistle of air as he brushed it; then he was hurtling past low towers with lighted windows behind which alien faces gaped briefly. He swept low over a narrow street ablaze with colored lights, felt a shock as the catwalk brushed a building somewhere above; then the street was falling away below as the freeswinging catwalk cracked-the-whip, soaring upward in a wild zoom, slowing now... A wall loomed before him with a narrow balcony before lighted windows. For an instant, it seemed to hang before his face -- and Retief lunged, kicked his legs free of the twisted wicker. He caught the heavy rattan guard rail. He hung on,' groping with his feet, with the gale tearing at him, shrieking in his ears... Hands gripped him, hauline him up. He shook his head to clear it, felt a heavy hanging brush his face. Then he was standing on a yielding floor, blinking in the soft light of a primitive incandescent lamp, feeling the warmth and strange, spicy odor of an alien room. A five-foot native stood before him, staring up anxiously with large protruding green eyes in a smooth, olive-colored face. The wide, almost human mouth opened showing a flash of pink interior. "Are you all right, buddy?" a strangely resonant voice inquired in the bubbly local tongue. Retief felt of his jaw, moved his shoulders gingerly. "A little dazed by the speed with which the boys work, but otherwise fine he replied. "You speak Poon like a native, by Hoop!" the alien said. "Here sit down. How about a drink of Yiquil?" He indicated a low couch heaped with varicolored cushions and turned to a cupboard, wide webbed feet in bright yellow sandals gripping the swaying floor. "You fell off a catwalk, eh?" "Something like that," Retief accepted a deep two-handled porcelain jug, delicately shaped. He sniffed the drink, then sipped. "My name's Url Yum. I'm a netter for Matwide Fooderies." "Pm Retief. I'm with the Terran Consulate." He glanced around the room. "Handsome apartment you have here." "Oh, it's all right." There was a sharp whistle at the door. "You feel like meeting a bunch of people? I guess they saw you fall, and they'll be crowding in now to take a look at you. We don't often see Terries here in town, you know." "I'd rather not go on exhibit right now. Yum." "Sure, I know how you feel. I had IF to go over to Dryport on business a few months back, and every damn do-gooder wanted to have me in for tea and look me over." The whistle sounded again at the door. Url Yum padded across to the closet, brought out a large satchel and pulled out brightcolored gear of plastic and metal. "I was just about to go for a swim. Why don't you join me? You don't want to go back up tonight in this wind. We can go down the back way. How about it?" "A swim? In this weather?" "The best time. Hunting's good. The small stuff shelters under the Mat, and the big stuff is in there hunting them -- and we hunt the big stuff." He held up a polished spearhead. "Look, Yum, I'm just a Terry. I can't hold my breath more than a minute or two." "Neither can I. That's what the gear's for. You burn oxygen, same as we do, don't you?" The whistle came again, more peremptory now. "Hey, Yum!" a voice called. Retief finished his drink. "That yiquil's great stuff, Yum; it's already affecting my judgment. Let's go!" T hey stood in a narrow way that wound between high walls hung with dights and signboards, studded with balconies from which pennants fluttered, crowded with poony, filled with the shriek of wind, the chatter of whistled conversation, and over all the polyphonic creaking of the city. "Fve heard of twisting roads," Retief called. "This is the first time I ever saw one that really twisted." Yum put his mouth close to Reliefs ear. "You know the whistle dialect?" "I can understand it," Retief shouted back. "But I can't whistle it." Yum motioned, led the way down a side alley to a sea-shell ornamented hanging and pushed into a low room with couches along one wall, open shelves on another. A portjy Poon waddled forward. "Oi, Yum! Oi, stranger." "Oi," Yum said. "Gipp, this is Retief. We're going down. Can you fix him up with a spray job?" "Lucky you came to my place, Yum. I happen to have a compound specially prepared for Terry requirements, a fresh batch, just concocted yesterday." "Good. Retief, put your stuff over there." Yum opened his satchel, took out equipment and laid it out on a low table. He selected a pair of goggles, handed them to Retief. "These are a little big, but I think they'll seat all right." He handed over a heavy cylinder the size and shape of a beer bottle, added other items. "Okay: propulsion, communication lights, breathing apparatus, emergency gear. Now, after you strip and get your equipment buckled on, Gipp will fit you with water-foils and spray you in." Retief donned the gear and watched with interest while the portly proprietor shaped a putty-like material to his feet, forming large fins which stiffened to a rubbery consistency, then brought out a portable apparatus with a tank, compressor and hose with a wide nozzle. "Give him a Striding Devil job, Gipp," Yum ordered. Gipp hesitated, looking at Retief. "I suppose you've had a lot of experience -- ?" "He'll be all right," Yum put in. "He catches on fast, and he's got a good arm." "Whatever you say, Yum -- but you ought to warn him that a Death Angel will jump a Strider on sight." "Sure. That way we don't have to go looking for 'em." "Well, if you get one remember I'm paying top sprud for stones." "You'll get first crack." Gipp started up the compressor, twiddled knobs, then directed a heavy spray of viscous, greenish fluid on Retief's chest, working it in a pattern that covered him to the knees. Then the Poon shut down and set about changing hoses. "What's this stuff for?" Retief inquired, studying the thick, soft layer hardening on his skin. "Protective covering. It's tough as yuk skin. And it has an osmotic action; passes oxygen in, and CO # out. The color disguises you so you don't scare off the game -- and the finished job holds all your gear in place. It's a good insulation, too. That water's cold. It strips off easily when you come back in." Gipp worked for another five minutes. Retief craned his neck to look at himself. His back, he saw, was a dull black, with red and white flecks, separated from the glossy green front by pale gray sides. Broad pink gill-flaps flared from throat to shoulders. The ankles and fin-covered feet were a vivid red. "He's got the build for it," Gipp said, looking him over. "If I hadn't done the job myself, I'd swear he was a Strider, by Hoop?" "That's the idea, Gipp. Now jus give me a straight Big Mouth outfit." Yum took a flask from a side pocket and offered it to Retief, who took a generous pull, then passed it to Gipp, busy with his apparatus. "No, thanks. I don't need any delusions of grandeur tonight. I hope to do a good volume of business before the storm hits its peak." He worked carefully, covered Yum with a uniform dull gray, added a peaked crest of garish yellow. "All right, Retief." Yum handed him a light, short-barreled rifle from the muzzle of which a razoredgjed spearhead protruded. "Let's go down." Gipp led the way to a back room and opened a wide wicker cover set in the floor. Retief looked down to the sloping surface of a three-foot tube of close-woven strips. "Follow me," Yum said, and dived, head first, out of sight. Retief gripped his spear-gun, waved Gipp a cheery farewell and dived after him. Ill T he water was ink-black, alive with darting lights in red and yellow, ponderous-moving patterns IF of green and blue and, far below, dull gleams of violet. Retief kicked his feet, watched lights scatter before him in a boil of phosphorescence. A dark shape darted from the gloom and hovered before him. He recognized Yum's yellow crest, waving gently in the moving water. "Only peaceful place in town, when the wind's working," Yum's voice crackled in Retiefs ears. "Let's work our way east to get clear of the activity around here; then we'll see if we can't bait an Angel up." "How deep are we?" "The Mat's twenty meters thick here. We're going to work Underside first; if that's no go, we'll move down." Yum darted off with a flick of webbed feet. Retief followed. Above, the mass of the floating continent of weed was a fairyland tangle of waving fronds, fantastically shaped corals, coiling weed, and moving lights. "Use the knob on your left hip as a jet control," Yum said. "Steer with your feet -- and keep your rifle ready. If you see anything that looks like you, let him have it." Retief tried the knob, felt water chum past his knees; he leaped ahead, driving through the water with a speed that blurred the weedscape above. A slight twist of the ankles sent him angling sharply toward the depths; a minute adjustment brought him back to Yum's side. His eyes adjusted to the darkness, picked out the shapes behind the lights now. Massive, sluggish swimmers cruised, wide jaws open. Slim torpedo shapes darted and wheeled. A nebulous form, glowing with a nacreous pink, rose up and reached out with feathery arms; Yum swerved away, Retief following fifteen feet to one side of his bubble-trail. After a ten-minute . run, Yum slowed, rose until he brushed the tops of the coral trees, then reached up with his feet, planted them in a swirl of smoky mud and stood, inverted. Retief came alongside, twisted, felt the soft ooze under his feet. "It's a little confusing at first," Yum's voice came clear in Retiefs ears. "But you'll get used to it." Retief looked around. The undulating surface of the weed mass stretched away into deep gloom, studded with waving fronds, stiffbranched trees of red-violet, orange and chartreuse coral, feathery banks of leafy undergrowth set with multi-colored flowers as big as dinner plates, among which moving lights sparkled and played. "I'll pace you, off to the left," Yum said. "Move along with big, leaping strides. Anything your size except another Strider will give you a wide berth. If you see one, hit him fast. Aim for the mid-section. Now, if we pick up an Angel, you'll notice the shadow first. Just keep moving; I'll get under him and hit him where it hurts. When he turns, give it to him near the big red spot on his back. Got it?" "How many rounds in this rifle?" "Five in the magazine, and a spare on your left shoulder." "How do we know there aren't other hunters around? I'd hate to spear a friend of yours by mistake." "You'll get a recognition tone in your phones if anybody gets within fifteen yards -- maybe. That's part of the game. I got a nice barb cut out of my left leg last year. Some' joker wanted a Big Mouth for cut bait." Yum waved and flicked away. Retief picked an open avenue between towering corals and started off. Walking was not too difficult after the first few steps; rather like tramping the dusty surface of an asteroid, he reflected -- except that the diving gear was considerably less bulky than a spacesuit. T here was a movement to Retiefs right. A tall biped stalker into view ten yards distant, barely visible in the glow of phosphorescence. Retief halted and brought the gun around. The newcomer moved on in great floating leaps. Retief turned to follow. "Never mind the Strider," Yum said. "He didn't see you; he must have just fed. We'll work off to the right here and let him have this territory." Retief watched as the biped bounded off into the gloom, then moved on. Ahead, the darkness seemed deeper. A cow-sized creature with warts and glowing rings around wide eyes blundered past, rocking him with a surge of water. Tiny fish flashed by. The gloom deepened. "Action!" Yum's voice came, tense in the earphones. "Keep going; we've got a big one coming up to take a look!" Retief twisted to look toward the depths, like a black sky in which a dark cloud moved. He went on. "That's the stuff. Act like you don't notice him; otherwise he'll let fly with his musk, and we'll be working in the dark..." The shadow moved, spreading. All around, the scene darkened. At last a sluggish sea-creature humped past, raising a trail of mud-fog. "Hey," Yum's voice came. "He's by-passing us, moving on." "Maybe he's just not hungry tonight." "It's that Strider we saw; he's after him. Let's go!" Retief turned, saw a swirl of phosphorescence, jetted after it. The surface of the weed sloped, an inverted hill. Retief moved up beside Yum, following the immense shadow that fled across the rolling surface. The Strider came into view, leaning back toward the two hunters. "Take him!" Yum barked. "Ill get under the big boy!" He swirled away. Retief brought the rifle to his shoulder, aimed -- Strider's chest. The creature reached, grabbing at its back... "Hold it!" Yum's voice snapped. "That's no Strider!" The long greenish beam of the searchlight swung, flashing from coral trees, glowing through drifting mud-clouds. "The damned fool! He'd better douse that light!" IF  ' ' ?. '.V v  'if llI li The Death Angel closed, like a hundred-foot blanket of black jelly settling in; the stranger backed, working frantically to fit a magazine to his rifle, bringing it up -- The Angel struck. For a moment it hugged the surface of the weed, rippling its edge -- then it heaved, recoiling violently -- "Good-oh!" Yum yelled. "I planted one fair and square! Move in and hit the hot-spot, Retief, and we'll be up half the night counting gold over a bottle of hundred-year yiqu.'l!" Retief hurled himself forward, kicked clear of the weed-bed, centered his sights on a foot-wide patch of luminous red at the center of the vast writhing shape, and fired, fired again, then went tumbling as the turbulence caught him and bowled him over. R etief and Yum crouched by the prone body of the Angel's victim. "He's a Terry, all right, Retief. I wonder what he was doing Underside -- alone?" "Probably a tourist, out to see the sights. Though I hadn't heard of any travellers registered with the Consulate." "You may be right. We're not far from the Tap Root; he was headed that way, and he seemed to know where he was going." Retief checked the man's equipment, noted his pulse and respiration. "He seems to be all right." "Sure. He just took a good jolt of current. We didn't give the Big Boy a chance to get his shredding hooks into him." "We'd better take him up." "Sure. Soon as we stone out our Angel, before the Big Mouths get him. There's a public entry-well not far away; probably the one he used. We'll just tow him along with us. He'll be okay." The vast bulk of the Angel drifted fifty yards from the crowns of the coral trees. They swam to it, shooed off an inquisitive scavenger, moved around to the red spot on the expanse of black hide. A short spear stood, half its length buried dead center in the target. A second spear protruded a foot away. Yum whistled. "You work close, Retief. Nice shooting." He undipped a slim-bladed knife, made an incision, plunged an arm into the rubbery body and brought out a lumpy organ the size of a grapefruit. He whistled again. "This must be the beachmaster of all Angels! Look at the size of that pouch!" He slit the leathery bag carefully, dipped in two fingers and extracted a black sphere as big as a large grape. "Retief, we make a great team. Look at those stones!" "What do you use them for?" "We grind them up and sprinkle them on our food. A great delicacy." "Yum, what's this Tap Root you mentioned?" "Eh? Why, it's -- well, it's the root that supplies the mat." "Just one for all this weed?" "Sure; it's all one plant -- the whole Mat." IF "I'd like to take a look at it. I can't picture a Terry swimming around down here at the height of a storm, just to rubberneck -- not unless it's a pretty spectacular sight." "It doesn't look like much. Just a big, tough cable, running down into the Big Deep." Yum tucked the pearls into a pouch clipped to his belt and led the way along the sloping weed .surface. He indicated a dark mass ahead. CCnphat's it -- back in that tanAgle of rootlets there. The Tap's a hundred feet in diameter and over a mile long. It anchors the Mat, and feeds it, too." "Let's take a closer look." Retief moved in among the waving rootlets. "Say -- what's that?" Yum's voice came over the earphones. Ahead, a large dark shape nestled among the entwining roots. Retief swam up alongside. "It's a scout boat -- Terry design." He swam to the entry port, found it locked. "Let's reconnoiter a little, Yum." The two moved over the waving mass of rootlets, cruising beside the moss-grown, barnacled wall of the immense root. Retief caught a glimpse of a white object, fluttering in the dark water. He headed for it. It was a plastic tag, wired to a spike driven into the husk of the root. Below it hung a small box, metal covered, with an insulated, cable projecting from one side. "What is it? Who'd come here and tamper with the Root?" Yum asked, puzzled. "It's a detonator," Retief said. "The cable is designed to plug into a packaged explosive charge." "Explosive! Here, by the Root?" "How long would the weed last with the root cut?" "Last? It wouldn't last a day! You cut a sprig of the weed, it crumbles in a matter of minutes. Oh, the fruit, leaves, husks, are tough enough -- but the main mass would disintegrate like a sugar lump in a mug of hot roca." "Somewhere there's a bomb to go with the detonator, Yum," Retief said. "Probably aboard the boat. Our swimmer was on the way to get it, I'd guess. Let's check him for keys. Yum fumbled over the limp body. "He's clean, Retief. He must have lost them in the fight." "All right; let's get him to the surface and see what he has to say." IV I n the damp-smelling cavern of the public entry hall, Retief stood over the unconscious man. Water dripped from him, puddled on the heavy-duty rattan ramp that sloped up from the water. The attendant on duty came forward, clucked at the sight of the inert body. "He left here, not fifteen minutes ago. Wouldn't accept my offer of a guide. I warned him..." "Where are his clothes?" Retief asked. "On the shelf -- there." The attendant pointed to a coat, trousers, boots, a tangle of heavy leather belts and an empty holster in a neat pile. "A cop?" Retief said. He examined the garments. "No identification," he said. "And no keys." "What happened?" the attendant asked. "An Angel hit him." "He'll be out for hours, then," the attendant said. "A big Angel gives a pretty good shock. Hahl These tourists are all alike." "Yum, you don't have a police force here -- or an army?" "No. What would we need with those?" "Can you get a few friends together -- volunteers, to watch the patrol boat?" "Sure, Retief. All you want." "Station about a dozen in the underbrush around the boat. Tell them to keep out of sight -- we don't want to scare anybody off. But be careful. A spear-gun is no match for a Mark IV blaster." "I'll call the boys." Yum went into the attendant's office, emerged five minutes later. "All set," he declared. "What about him?" He indicated the sleeping cop. "Have the fellow on duty watch him until your friends get here. Meanwhile, he'd better put him somewhere out of sight." "What about the bomb?" "We'll have to try to stampede somebody. Whoever sent our friend here doesn't know he didn't make it." Retief looked at Yum, frowning in thought. "Yum, peel out of that scare suit and put the uniform on." He began stripping off the Striding Devil disguise. "I'll borrow some local garb." "You've got an idea?" "Not much of one. Just a wild hunch." Yum kicked free of the last of the diving gear, pulled on the shapeless Patrol outfit. It hung ludicrously on his squat frame. "Retief, I wouldn't fool anybody in this." "That's just the point, Yum. Now let's move!" Y um stopped before a dark entry and pointed up at a lighted floor above. "This is it," he called over the howling wind. Retiefs long violet cloak whipped at his ankles; Yum held onto his patrolman's cap with one hand. "All right." Retief leaned close to Yum and shouted. "You wait five minutes, Yum; then just move off down the street. Move as though you were in a hurry. Then you'd better go back and help out the boys. If anybody comes close, let him get the port open; then hit him fast." "Well -- I guess you know what you're doing." Retief climbed the trembling wicker stairway, gripping the handrail as a violent gust bounced him against the swaying wall. Two flights up he pushed aside a hangIF Wimperton and Pird looked up from a table on which a meal of emergency rations was laid out in the bleak light of a feeble DC lamp. Wimperton's mouth opened wide. Pird scrambled up and stood wiping his fingers on his pink vest. "Hi, boys, ,, Retief said cheerfully. "Damnedest thing happened to me. You'll never guess." "Ah... you fell out a window?" Wimperton hazarded. "Close, but no dope-stick; the catwalk broke under me. Quite a ride." He strolled to the window. "Some wind out there. Say... "Yes, indeed, quite a wind, you're right," Pird piped. "Look here," Retief said. "Is that a Patrolman? Wonder what he's doing out in the storm!" Wimperton and Pird jumped to the window, craned. Below, Yum's ungainly figure waddled briskly along the pitching street, turned a corner. "Hey, that's -- " Wimperton started. "Yes, that's strange, all right," Pird cut in. "Poor weather for a stroll." "But that wasn't -- " "Wasn't anything for us to worry about, ha ha," Pird babbled. He pretended to yawn. "Well, about time to turn in, eh?" He patted his mouth, watching Retief. "Pm glad you suggested that," Retief said. "I was afraid you'd want to sit up and talk." "Just take that first room there," Pird said eagerly. "Lovely room. Just lie right down and drift right off. Wimperton, you show Mr. Retief the room and I'll just... ah . , . check a few things." Retief glanced back from tha door, caught a glimpse of Pird darting past the outer hanging. Ha stepped into the room. There was a tidy bunk, an easy chair, a rug, a tri-D set. "This is dandy." He patted the bed. "Well, Wimperton, have a pleasant night." "Yes, indeed. You too." Wimperton disappeared. Retief flipped the light off, lay back on the bed and waited. A minute passed. The door curtain twitched aside for a moment, dropped back. Lights winked off in the outer room. Retief rose, glanced out. The shelter was deserted. He crossed to the outer hanging, went down the swaying wicker stairs three at a time, stepped out into the stormwhipped street. Pird and Wimperton, each dragging a suitcase, staggered out of sight around the corner. Retief wrapped the cloak close aid followed. S tanding in the shadows by the straining, wicker-work wall of a Public Entry Well, Retief watched Wimperton and Pird as they paced the ramp. Pird glanced at a finger watch. "... any time now..." the words came faintly through the hammer of the wind and the groaning of wicker. Pird stopped before Wimperton, apparently asking a question. Wimperton reached inside his coat, brought out a thick packet of papers restrained by a red rubber band, waved them at Pird, put them back. Retief edged somewhat closer." "... don't like it either," Wimperton's nasal voice stated. "Either the locals are wise -- or they've got a deal with..." The wind whirled the words away. Retief stepped back into the street, saw the pink glow of a public phone fifty yards distant. He fought his way to it through the wind, dialed and asked to speak to Yum. "No action here yet," the native said. "How did the routine go over?" "Our pigeons flew the coop, all right. They know they've got troubles, but they're not sure just what kind. They're at a Public Entry near the Consulate, waiting for a pickup." "They'll have a long wait. Their driver's still asleep." "Yum, I have a feeling the bomb's timed to go off at the peak of the storm. How long will that be?" "Oh, about two hours, I'd say." "What will conditions be like at the top of the Consulate Tower now?" "Rough. The towers lean to the wind. The ceilings fold right down against the floors in a good blow -- and this pne's a dandy." "We're about out of time, Yum -- and there are two parties still unaccounted for. Pm afraid I have one more trip in this wind." "You're coming back here?" "I'm going up -- and I'd rather get moving while there's still crawl space in the Consulate." A howling gale struck Retief's head as he hauled himself up from a dark opening onto the thirtieth-floor balcony and looked up the long slant of the tower face. Forty feet above, the guard rail lining the terrace of the Consulate pent-house was dimly visible in the murk. Under Retief, the tower wall trembled and moved like a living thing. He reached for a handhold, started up the thirty-degree slope. Gusts tore at him. He rested, hugging the surface, then went on. Ten minutes later he pulled himself over and lay full length on the steep slope of the tower roof. The wind was less, here in the shelter of the canted floor. Retief slid down, then jumped, tumbled through the wind-tattered entry hanging, caught himself and blinked through the gloom of the deserted office. From the far wall, a grunt sounded. Retief made his way across the room and flicked a wall switch. Dim light glowed, showed him the trussed form of Consul-General Jack Dools huddled in the angle of wall and floor. Five blood-shot eyestalks quivered appealingly at Retief. He went to a tilted desk, extracted a letter knife from a clip, came back and sawed at the cords binding the Groaci, then pulled the gag free of the mandibles. "Ah, the shining of the sun on your ancestral egg-hill," Dools gasped in Groaci. "To express heartfelt gratitude; to vow eternal chumship... IF "Think nothing of it, Mr. Dools. You feel well enough to travel? We'll have to go down the outside. The stairs are collapsed." "How pleasant to see you alive, dear fellow," Dools went on in Terran. "I feared the miscreants had done their worst. I tried to interfere, but alas -- " "I saw you. At the time, I had the idea you were doing the sawing, but then I got to thinking about the booze and girly-book supply in the filing cabinet. Alcohol would poison you and as for unadorned mammals -- " "Mr. Retief, take care!" Dools hissed. "My hearing is keen; someone comes " Retief looked toward the doorway, then hastily tucked the cut ends of the rope out of sight under Dools' body. "Play 'em close to your thorax, Mr. Dools," he cautioned. A tall figure climbed through the flapping door hanging, crouched on the sloping floor, braced by one hand. The other held a power pistol, aimed at Retief. "Just stay where you are, bright boy," Klamper s called over the screech of the wind. "Don't bother untying him. My errand won't take but a minute." p He half-slid, half-crawled to the filing cabinet, keeping both eyes on Retief, fumbled a key from a pocket. He opened the top drawer, then the next, rummaged, tried the last drawer, then turned on Retief, showing even white teeth in an expression that was not a smile. "I ought to have my head examined. I let those two lightweights sell me a story. What an act! Wimperton gobbled like a turkey when he opened up that phoney cover and got a load of the funny-books inside. So I let 'em sucker me into a goose-chase... unless you've got it?" He came closer. "Turn out your pockets, hotshot." Retief shook his head. "If you're looking for the papers, forget it. I left them in my other suit." "You loused up six months work, greenhorn. But I'll be back to fill out some fresh forms. Too bad you won't be here to watch." He raised the power pistol; behind him, Dools lunged for the patrolman's ankle. A bolt of blue fire crackled harmlessly past Retief's ear as he leaned aside, chopped at Klamper's gun hand, followed up with a knee to the face. Klamper rolled with the blow, scrambled over a sagging desk and dived for the doorway. Dools started after him. "Let him go, Mr. Dools," Retief said. "I think I know where he's headed. Now let's get out of here before we get our clothes pressed -- with us in 'em!" V A t the Public Entry Well, Yum and a group of wellmuscled locals met Retief. "Our man was here about ten minutes ago," Yum said blandly, "Big fellow, in a big hurry." "You let him through?" "That's right." "Then you warned the boys at the boat to stop him?" "Well, no, Retief. I told them to let him go. As you pointed out, he had a blaster. He's several hundred miles out by now." Retief folded his arms. "There's something funny going on here, Yum. What about the bomb? It's probably timed to go off at the height of the storm -- say in another ten minutes." "Oh, that. I found it. It's taken care of." "Found it where? And how the devil do you take care of a sealed titanite charge?" "It was aboard the boat. You were right about that -- " "Come on, Yum. Give!" "Well, Retief, I was a little curious. You can't blame me, after meeting you under such -- unusual circumstances. I took a look through your clothes. I found this." He held up the document Retief had extracted from the Consulate files. "A fancy piece of paper laying claim to the whole damned planet of Poon -- which it states is uninhabited -- which it would have been if the bomb idea had worked out. The Mat would have broken up in the wind, and when the sky cleared, it would look like just another natural disaster. And in a few months, all five continents would be one big gold mine." "So?" "So I held out on you. Our slumbering pal had keys, all right. I went back and opened up the boat. There sat the bomb -- all labelled and ready to go." "Except for the detonator. That was wired to the root." "Uh-huh. A safety precaution. But I found another one. It wasn't hard to install. I had an idea the owner would be along to see about it before zero hour; but I didn't like the sight of the thing sitting out in the middle of the floor, so I tucked it away." "Where?" "In the chart storage bin." Retief whirled to the discarded Terran uniform, jerked the communicator from the lapel clip, keyed it on .the official frequency. "Klamper, if you can hear me, answer -- fast!" After a moment, Klamper's voice came back, a thin piping in the miniature earphone. Yum and Dools leaned closer. "Klamper here. Who're you?" "This is Retief, Klamper -- " "Oh, yeah, the bright young official. Well, I predict a big change in the near future for you. In about thirty seconds, to be exact." "Klamper, there's a bomb -- " "Well, well, so you found out about that, too. Sorry I can't help you. So long, su -- " The earphones went dead. "Klamper!" Yum looked at his watch. "Right on the button," he said. "At least," Dools said, "he lived long enough to exonerate Mr. Retief." sphere was a patter of hurried footsteps. Retief and Yum turned. In the door, Wimperton and Pird stood like ruffled birds, staring. "I'm afraid you lads missed the IF boat," Retief called. Yum signaled with his hand. Half a dozen local citizens fanned out to hem in the newcomers. "Oh, why Mr. Retief... What are you doing out of bed?" Pird squeaked. "Oh, I just dropped down to offer you boys a crack at a peachy new opportunity in the Achievement Corps. Consul-General Dools here has need of two volunteers to man the new wildlife census stations over on continents One and Two. I'm going to give you first grabs at it. We'll go over to the Shelter and type out your resignaof five-year enlistment contracts in the A.C. -- on a non-compensatory basis, of course." Wimperton's mouth sagged open. "And I have a number of microtape recordings I'll contribute," Dools said. "They're quite exciting. All about bombs and land claims and gold mines. You can play them over during your leisure time -- during sand-storms, perhaps." "But -- Mr. Retief," Pird cried. "We -- we've found conditions here somewhat less than congenial..." "What if we refuse?" Wimperton gulped. "In that case, Yum and his associates would like to interview you on the subject of homesteading." "Your pen or mine for the signature?" Pird said hastily. "I'll ask a couple of the boys to help these two philanthropists over to the Consulate," Yum said. "Let the business wait till morning... You and I have a bottle of Yiquil to finish, Retief." "Show Mr. Dools a few of those pearls we netted, Yum." Yum fished out the stones, handed them to Dools, who canted two pairs of eye-stalks at the lustrous one-inch spheres. "Gentlemen -- this is precisely the product I need to qualify Poon as a Class One commercial world! Can these be supplied in any volume? Say, a dozen a month?" "I think it could be arranged," Yum said in heavily accented Terran. "Why don't you join Retief and the boys and me in a snort?" "Well, I really don't think... "I know a barman who can concoct a suitable booze for any metabolism," Yum urged. "And a hangover cure afterwards." Retief linked arms with the slender Groaci. "Come along Mr. Consul-General," he said. "We won't take no for an answer."      IF  Feature CC'T'he next great breakthrough Ain science," I said during a recent symposium, "the breakthrough that will have the kind of impact on us all that the Hiroshima bomb had, will be in the area of psychophysiology: mind and brain. And the man who will bring it about walks the earth today." Since then I have been asked many times to say a little more about this, and I'm happy to oblige. Let me begin, however, with a disclaimer: I can't say exactly what the breakthrough will be. I am convinced of what kind it will be, however, for one simple reason: you can't,, you just can not, do as much research, in as many ways, with as many advanced tools, as are being turned to this goal, without making such a breakthrough! Consider: Dr. Lilly, in his pursuit of the language of the dolphins (work which is partly financed by the Space Administration, which has an exciting reason, to science-fiction readers: how do you communicate with a mind as good as a man's, but not like a man's?) uses a technique called stereotaxia -- among many, many others. Imagine a rigid steel frame in which the head of the subject is clamped, after careful measurement. X-rays and surface mapping. On the frame are three thumbscrews, each of which directs a long fine sterilized electrode in a different dimension: one for up and down, one for right and left, one for forward and back. Each one is calibrated and has a vernier adjustment. At the desired location, a fine hole is drilled in the skull, just down to the dura mater , the very outside tissue of the brain. Then the electrode is positioned and lowered down through the brain cells, to the precise location under study. The researcher presses a button, and a carefully measured, tiny pulse of electricity jolts the small area -- perhaps only a dozen cells -- at the tip of the electrode. Observations are then made -- and they are extraordinary. A human subject will experience flashes of light, or hot or cold sensations at certain parts of his body, or perhaps a burst of sound. Sometimes there are snatches of memory -- and some of these are not real! Exactly what reaction is experienced depends on the location of the probe and the intensity of the current. Bit by bit, segment by segment, the brain is examined -- not, of course, the same brain, but great numbers of similar ones, until the motor and sensory centers of cats, dogs, rats, monkeys, humans -- and of course dolphins -- become increasingly well-known -- and understood. It's a common tale that we use only a fraction -- some say a fourth, some say a tenth -- of our available brain cells. Most researchers today will not commit themselves on this. It is beginning to seem that we use all of the parts of the brain -- but none of them at maximum capacity, and not all of them in ways which are completely understood. A great deal has been written most of it irritates me to the bellowing point. There is admittedly a good deal of spectacular material in the research, but the way it is played up for these effects is pretty repulsive. The watch-and-ward mentality is ever so quick to put moral values on its use, describing it vividly as a sort of super goofball -- and acting therefore as advertising agents in exactly the ways which appeal most to the goofball mentality. Meanwhile one or two crusading-type groups are marching systematically off in directions almost guaranteed to have this particularly valuable baby thrown out with the bathwater, which is what happened to hypnotism a hundred years ago when it became part stagecraft, part practical joke, and part evil incarnate of the Trilby and Rasputin variety, until only now is it regaining some respectability. There are still some researchers who are doing important exploraultimately unlock the secrets of its strange behavior and great potency. That this substance, or certain ones allied to it, will open new pathways to the study and treatment of the mind is beyond doubt; we can only hope that they will be let alone to do it. One further word on hypnotism: here is an insight which might intrigue you. Beset as it is by real and fictional accounts of fixed, glazed eyes staring at lights and glittering pendulums, while the soft-voice Man of Power lulls the subject into deeper slumber, hypnotism has a hard time making itself known in its other and more widespread effects. We know for example, that the mind can direct the realization of pain away from a specified area of the body under hypnosis. You've surely read of hypnotic anesthesia in childbirth and dentistry, and the stage trick of pushing a needle through a fold of the subject's flesh, which not only is not felt, but does not bleed. But has it ever occurred to you that your own body, right this very minute, is performing the same trick of anesthesia? (I use the word in the sense of "lack of sensation" and not that of "lack of pain".) Got your socks on, friend? Well, either they are pulled up tight and pressing against your calves or they hang down sloppy and you can feel the soft folds around your ankles. Right? But you didn't feel those things before you started to read this page, did you? Not until your mind and yours truly got together to make the sense impressions come through. The mind is there and the nerves are there and the stimulus is there -- but the mind automatically switches off the recognition of most sense impressions until it is told, in some way or another, to switch it on again. You want another? Sit absolutely still with your hands on this page (close your eyes if you like) and let yourself become aware of your hairline in the back, beginning just behind your left ear and slowly working around your nape until you reach a point just behind your right ear. Not only will you find yourself aware of almost every point alone the way, you will almost certainly develop an itch so sudden and penetrating that it will be impossible for you not to scratch it If you are one of those who resist suggestion, you will scratch it anyway but you will not know you are doing it. Watch yourself, now! T he point I am making here is that in this sense most of us are "hypnotized' over most of our bodies most of the time, and old Soft Voice swinging his gold watch on its glittering chain hadn't one damn thing to do with it. On the apparently sound theory that anything once experienced is never forgotten, men work today on ways to bring back, or bring out, "forgotten material. This could lead to eidetic, or "camera" memory -- a handy thing not only in psychotherapy, but in a court of law. Studies are being made on the extraordinary metabolism of the brain cells, which seem to use blood fractions physically and chemically in different ways from other body cells. And aside from these and other researches on the organic activity of the brain, many profound and widely varied studies are being made on brain function -- that is, behavior: the learning process, for example, and psychosomatic illness. All this barely dusts over the surface of what's being done -- and I haven't even touched the quagjust don't -- turn so many tools in so many ways on such a subject without coming up with a breakthrough. And when it comes, it's going to change the face of our earth... Ha! You scratched! IF IP  Short Story I M r. President, honored guest, members of the Athletic Commission, fellow Innovators. It gives me great pleasure to report that the year # holds promise of imminent success for our cause. Our next annual meeting may well be in the form of a victory dinner! Through the untiring efforts of our organization, our national pastime, which has been stagnating in its own rigid rules for more than a century, is now on the verge of developing to its wonderful potential. While we still face formidable opposition from the Traditionalists, under whose rule the popularity of the sport continues to decline, during the past twelve months we have made tremendous progress. The new stadium, for instance -- or rather the special features tonight's guest of honor, master architect Thaddeus Brutus, has had built into it -- stands as tribute to our achievements. These new-fangled ideas -- where will they all stop? Through my work as historian for our organization, I have discovered that today's crisis is far from the first our national pastime has faced. The rare books and newspaper articles that have survived the wars and ravages of time reveal that, on more than one occasion, the sport rebounded from seeming extinction. In fact, it appeared doomed only a few short decades after its birth in the late I #th or early #th century, when it was known simply as wrestling, or gruntangroan. In its archaic form, the sport pitted two men against each other in a small, padded enclosure called a ring -- facetiously, I suppose, since every available record indicates it was square in shape. Each contestant, armed with nothing more than some ancient skill in the use of leverage, would struggle toward the benign goal of pressing his opponent's shoulders to the canvas flooring. Two out of three of these "pins" or "falls" would decide the match. It is easy to understand why such mild sport failed to become particularly popular. Actually, within half a century, it had all but fallen into oblivion when snatched from its deathbed by the advent of viewy -- originally known as television, or TV. These early views machines were cumbersome devices, capable of casting only two-dimensional images -- some of them not even in color -- on screens that were just a few inches in diameter. Wrestling, confined as it was by a ring, proved a natural for the new medium. It quickly claimed widespread interest, helped by the fact that entertainment was not considered suitable fare for TV in those days. However, wrestling's basic weakness remained. It just wasn't interesting enough. And, as the novelty wore off, its popularity waned. Promoters, in a frantic effort to rekindle interest, resorted to presenting one combatant as the hero and the other as the villain, prearranging the result so that good would triumph over evil. Reduced to such a farcical exhibition, deprived of any aspect of honest competition, once again the sport began a rapid decline toward extinction -- this time to sarcastic cries of "author, author" after an obviously rehearsed match. This "theatrical" trend led many wrestlers to adopt bizarre personalities in the wild hope of capturing a bit of public interest. For instance, one affected a long, blond, highly effeminate hair-do; another dressed and acted the part of a full-blooded Indian; a third billed himself a member of a royal family. One can see why, in #, after less than a century of existence, wrestling was again in its last throes. However on September #th of that year, new life was injected into the sport. T his historic occurrence took place during a minor bout in Scranton, Pennsylvania, which matched the second-rate talents of a veteran named Doc Mauler with those of a newcomer from the Canadian forests -- Lumberjack Lenny. Since Mauler -- who claimed a real medical degree -- was the local contestant, it was arranged that he should take the "match" by winning the first and third falls. Lenny, however, in the excitement of his first bout, forgot his instructions and unceremoniously pinned the veteran in a matter of minutes. When it appeared that Lenny was about to suffer a similar lapse of memory in the second fall, Doc Mauler called upon all his medical know-how and came up with the correct therapy for his opponent's mental condition. It was at this precise moment that the sport -- and Lenny -- received a shot in the arm. Let me explain that, before the bout started, Mauler had left his identifying stethoscope and hypodermics on the apron, or edge of the ring. In that desperate moment, just as he was about to be pinned for the second time, he found these implements conveniently within his IF reach, picked up a hypodermic needle and jabbed it into his opponent's arm. Lenny, sent reeling back by this new onslaught, retreated to his own corner, pausing only to gather up his own trademarks -- a lumber jacket and a two-edged axe -- before reengaging his adversary. The newspaper accounts of the day tell us that Mauler wisely attempted to move into close quarters, feinting with the hypodermic while trying to slip the stethoscope around Lenny's neck. As he explained from his hospital bed after the fight, although his main objective was to garrote his foe, he had not overlooked the possibility of injecting an air bubble into his bloodstream. However, he never got the chance. Lenny, calling upon the experience of his many barroom brawls in the north woods, faked an opening with his lumber jacket, then shortened the fight -- and Mauler's right leg -- with a quick backhand chop. Fortunately, the promoter of that historic match was none other than Eddie Crooch, whom we all revere today as the father of the sport. The audience's truly enthusiastic response to this refreshing exhibition of competitive feeling did not escape Crooch's shrewd eye and he lost no time in changing the rules of the sport to encompass it. Lumberjack Lenny and his Educated Axe was one of the first greats of this new phase of the game. Although Doc Mauler never fully recovered from his first encounter, his younger brother, Intern Izzy Mauler, strung together an enviable skein of victories until he found himself outweaponed, some years later, by Spearfisher Frank. Other immortals of that era were Plumber Sam and his Sturdy Stillson Wrench, Homer Hittinger and his Lead-Loaded Bat, Electron Eddie and his effective (if cumbersome) High-Voltage Generator, and Bill Guillotine, to name a few. E ven while these stars were packing the stands, Crooch was able to recognize in die sport the first faint signs of waning popularity. Unlike our Traditionalists today, he fully realized that Innovations led to renewed public interest. His inventive mind devised the switch to the full-sized arena, the next step toward modernizing the sport. This was accomplished in # while the meeting on horseback of the White Knight and Prince Valiant in a bout that matched the Lethal Lance against the Singing Sword, the latter proving fatally short by about three feet. Acclaimed as the greatest champion of this era, according to newspaper accounts, was Count Cruel, highly skilled in the use of mace and chain. However, even he fell before the slings and arrows of the young upstart, Arthur the Archer. Arthur's short-lived reign was brought to a sudden end by Carbine Carl, who, in turn, was dispatched by Machine Gun McGurk. It was this same McGurk who took part in the most famous match of all, pitting his skills against the two outstanding challengers of the day -- Richard of the Nepal Flame Thrower and Hand Grenade Harry. The end that day in a memorable battle which proved, among other things, that bulletproof glass wasn't always. Aside from the deposed champion and Hand Grenade Harry, eightynine spectators, two officials and three ushers failed to survive the final contest of what I like to think of as the romantic era of the sport. The incident was followed by a Senate investigation into the misleading labelling of glass products and a movement among misguided reformers to outlaw the sport. Fans and promoters alike turned to Crooch, already honored as the first Czar of the game, to find the solution. He met the challenge by appointing a committee of outstanding sports writers, businessmen and politicians to help create a new set of rules. As a result of the "Slaughterhouse Scandal", as it was picturesquely labelled by the newspapers, a glass company went into bankruptcy and Crooch's Gladiator Code was born. That Code, my research reveals, is virtually identical to that which now governs our national pastime, clearly showing how reactionary our Traditionalist opponents really are. Even as today, the original Code permitted gladiators a choice of nothing more lethal than a short sword or three-pronged spear. Swordsmen were to be equipped with shields, arm and leg guards, breast plates and helmets, all of light metal. Spearmen, who sacrificed protection for mobility, were also provided with fish nets with which to confound and entangle opponents. Then as now, although the majority of fans watched the combats on views, only those present at the arena were permitted to give the "Thumbs Up" or "Thumbs Down" sign. While combats still make pleasant enough fare for a Sunday afternoon, the repetition throughout the years has sapped it of its original zest and crowd appeal. Certainly you will agree with me that Crooch, the greatest Innovator of them all, would not have let the sport decline as it has for lack of inventiveness. We do not seek to ban the Traditional Combats. With all its pageantry it might well serve as an interesting preliminary event for our Innovation... that great Innovation which, I predict with complete confidence, will be adding a fascinating new dimension to the sport within the year. And now, it gives me great pleasure to introduce our guest speaker, designed the new stadium -- which incidentally, he has named the Coliseum after a famous #th Century edifice. It was his foresight and confidence in the ultimate adoption of our Innovation which led him to include in his plans the tunnels under the stands. Tunnels that lead to the arena floor through heavy wooden doors at one end, and to chambers closed off by iron bars at the other. These passageways, while too low for a man to walk through, are just right for lions. And now I give you... IP The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: Your January cover was the most unusual I have ever seen on any magazine, but you might do better to put the picture in the upper right-hand corner where it is more noticeable on the magazine rack. I suppose you realize what the reaction of a less-than-longtime imaginative fiction fan would be to Waterspider. Now I know for sure what you are doing with If. -- Irvin Koch, # Chattanooga Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee # .    Dear Editor: Your November issue was the best In some time -- there wasn't one thing in it that I didn't like, so naturally, I will itemize. The Governor of Glave : Now there's a Retief story worthy of Laumer! The planetary revolution story is one of my favorite types, and although Laumer's plot has been used before, he has somehow turned it into a great story. I do not mourn the loss of aliens in the story -- all too often they are nothing but costumed Romans, Huns or Nazis. After all, if we are going to have an Attila or Hitler, an Earthman can play the part better. I never cease to marvel at the near telepathic Retief, he finds out more Muck Man! A real good story. However, it should somehow have been # pages longer. The section concerning the trip back should have been lengthened. Anyway, more stories of changelings would be welcome by me -- Mr. Dodge can handle a story line! A Better Mousetrap : Somewhere back when I got sick of the "we're property" idea, but Mr. Brunner had the courtesy not to make it the main idea of the story. It had enough action in it for me not to feel a bit insulted about the ending. Second Class Citizen: It was in the typical Knight style, but it occurs to me that the dolphin was talking under water, a difficult feat for a mammal! Long Day in Court: Okay, but looking at it again it seems a bit pointless, except maybe to say, neighbors' There is nothing I can say about The Reef # of Space that would not bring me into the realm of superatives! More power to ye, Pohl and One final question, any hope for an anthology? You've reached that height! -- David Lebling, # Rollins Ct., Rockville, Md. #.    Dear Editor: Your November cover makes the second artistic inspiration you've published in a row -- far above your usual standard. The new logo appeals to me; because it seems more dignified, I suppose. The cover story was the best in the magazine and one of the best you've published in some time. But tell me -- is Fremont Dodge a pseudonym for Jack Vance? The styles seem almost identical. -- Jim Harkness, # West Harding, Greenwood, Mississippi. Nope. -- Editor.    Dear Editor: Yep, Retief is still a winner! Mr. Laumer's stories draw me to If since I make it a practice never to buy sf mags with a serial. In this case the serial was so interesting that I searched out and found back issues for the rest of it. I must say that your If has some of the flavor of the #'s that has been sadly lost. -- TSgt. Jeff Tisdale, # Comm Sqdn, Box #,    Dear Editor: First I must congratulate you on your new magazine, Worlds of Tomorrow. I think the two issues of Worlds of Tomorrow that I have read are better than any single issue of either If or Galaxy. There are a couple of points I must make about the distribution of all your magazines in Australia, however. I have just finished reading the September issue of If, while W of T. for August hasn't appeared on the newsstands here yet. Another thing is the price. In American If is sold for # cents, W. of T for # cents, which is # per cent more. In Australia, I can buy If for # while Your September issue has a lot of top-line names in it, and their stories live up to expectations. This is one of the best issues in some time, but certainly expected with names like Van Vogt, Leinster, del geon. Keep up this standard in If, please, and I will certainly stay a regular reader. A welcome sight has been the names of some British authors on your contents page -- John Brunner and Brian W. Aldiss. More, please! -- A. G. Thomas, Boldrewood, New Line Road, West Pennant Hills, N.S.W., Australia.  More? Well, how about this issue's "first" -- Jo Friday, a young lady who teaches science in Australia, and writes about as well as any heretofore-unpublished writer we've seen in a long time. We also have another "first" -- or, in this case, almost "first," since the writer has been published a time or two in in other fields, though not with science fiction, in Jesse Friedlander. By the way, notice who's leading off our next issue? Name's E. E. Smith, Ph.D. And the story is a winner! -- Editor. IFif you want to keep your copy of Galaxy intact for permanent possession! Why mutilate a good thing? But, by the same token... if you're devotee enough to want to keep your copies in mint condition, you ought to subscribe. You really ought to. For one thing, you get your copies earlier. For another, you're sure you'll get them! Sometimes newsstands run out -- the mail never does. (And you can just put your name and address on a plain sheet of paper and mail it to us, at the address below. We'll know what you mean... provided you enclose your check!) In the past few years Galaxy has published the finest stories by the finest writers in the field Bester, Heinlein, Pohl, Asimov, Sturgeon, Leiber and nearly everyone else. In the next few years it will go right on, with stories that are just as good... or better. Don't miss any issue of Galaxy. You can make sure you won't. Just subcribe today. (lf, on the other hand, your habit is to read them once and go on to something new please feel free to use the coupon! It's for your convenience, not ours.) Enter my subscription for the New Giant #-page Galaxy p  r # lssues foreign postage) (U. S. Edition only) for: # Issues  # # Issues  # # Issues  # Name City Address Zone State Seated, #. to r. : Bennett Cerf, Faith Baldwin, Bergen Evans, Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff Standing: Mark Wiseman, Max Shulman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith, Rod Serling Photo by Philippe Halsman # famous authors start a new kind of writing school If you have writing talent worth developing, here's an opportunity never before available: Twelve of America's most famous authors have created a school of professional writing to help you develop your skill, talent and craftsmanship... and to pass on to you their secrets of achieving success and recognition. This unique home-training program is supervised by Rod Serling, winner of five Emmys for TV writing; Pulitzer Prize historian Bruce Catton; best-selling novelist Faith man; publisher-columnist Bennett Cerf; famed sportswriter Red Smith; Rudolf Flesch, top authority on readable writing; noted language expert Prof. Bergen Evans; famous mystery novelist Mignon G. Eberhart; J. D. Ratcliff, called by Time "America's No. I craftsman in the field of non-fiction"; and top ad men John Caples and Mark Wiseman. These famous authors have developed q remarkable series of textbooks, lessons and writing assignments that present -- in a clear and stimulating way -- what they have learned in their long, hard climb to the top. The School's instructors are themselves professional writers. Under the supervision of the # Famous Writers, these instructors work with students by mail, just as magazine and book editors work with many established authors. And they spend up to several hours on each assignment completed by a student... revising, correcting, and advising. The Famous Writers School is less than three years old. Its first students are not due to graduate until later this year. Yet, many have sold their writings to such varied publications as The Reader's Digest, Redbook , Popular Science, True Story. To select people with writing talent worth developing, the # Famous Writers have designed a revealing Talent Test. The coupon will bring you a copy, along with a brochure about the School. Your completed Test will be graded without charge or obligation by one of the School's instructors. If your Test indicates writing talent, you are then eligible to enroll in the School. You are, however, under absolutely no obligation to do so. Famous Writers School Dept. #, Westport. Connecticut I am interested in finding out whether I have writing talent worth developing. Please mail me, without obligation, the Famous Writers Talent Test. Mr. Mrs Age. Miss Street City .Zone County State The School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. MAY #  #c  j f (Choice of Lady's or Man's wallet) Have more fun with your camera! Now, take all the pictures you want -- without worrying about the cost! you save up to # on developing -- and get custom service and jumbo prints at no extra charge! You get a fresh roll of genuine Kodak film -- every roll developed! Imagine -- you'll never have to buy film again! cameras, projectors, wallet photos, enlargeIn addition, you are eligible to receive special discount offers -- at savings of up to #! You'll save hundreds of dollars on all your photo needs! It costs only # to join. No other dues or membership fees. And -- if you join now -- you get a handsome photo wallet, worth #, year to join this wonderful, money-saving Club -- sponsored by one of America's largest camera manufacturers and photo finishers! Photo Wallet worth # Official Membership Card m , BSsount Oftert oall your photo needs' 'Entire contents copyngnt #. plus lOg postage. Please send me my Photo Wallet worth # and complete new mem ber s kit. Check choice of Lady's I Man's   mi , ,, im Frederfk PoM, Editor David Pertain, Production Manager So Cohen, Pubfisher Dave Getter, Assoc. Novnern IF published bi-monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, VoL #, No. #, Main Officer #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # Issues # in tke United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.#. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. AH rights including translations reserved. Ail material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and ny similarity between character and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial Ode to a Skylark T he not-quite yet city of Tampeta, Florida, described in this issue's The Imperial Stars, is Doc Smith's conception of what will happen to Manatee County and surrounding areas in another couple of centuries. It is in this area of Florida's Golf coast, stretching from Dunedin and Tampa on the north to Sarasota on the south, that Smith spends his winters; it was here that he wrote The Imperial Stars; and, in fact, it is in this same area that your editor is writing these notes. Yesterday we spent the day with Doc Smith, clearing up a few loose ends in his forthcoming, long-delayed and long-awaited conclusion of his famous Skylark series, Skylark DuQuesne, which we will be printing in If as soon as the Heinlein FarnhairCs Freehold and one or two other items are done. (If you think we're name-dropping -- we are! It isn't often that an editor has a chance to announce a lineup like this!) Doc had a bit of eye surgery come up -- complains somebody has stuck about a # neutral gray filter on his vision when he wasn't looking -- and at the pleading of his doctor has agreed to budget a few weeks for operation and convalescence. But we talked mostly about the future -- Skylark DuQuesne, the future d'Alembert Family series to follow The Imperial Stars and so on. Doc, who has been writing for all but half a century, has plenty of future to count on, and we're hoping to keep printing his stories for half a century more. Hail to thee, blithe spirit! And keep 'em coming.    In case you hadn't noticed, this is an All-Smith issue... all different Smiths, of course. Besides Doc Smith we've got Mister and professor Smith, Herr Doktor Smith and Mr. Smith, Esq. Mister and professor Cordwainer Smith, a world traveler, confides that he was a great disappointment to his family because at the age of nine he could speak only five languages. Herr Doktor George O. Smith does all his writing now in Potsdam, Germany, where he is an electronics engineer on one of those enormous world-girdling projects that keep our satellites in orbit and our messages going through. Also from Potsdam -- but the other Potsdam, the one in upstate New York -- is Mr. Jack Smith, Esq. Proving it's a small world, he worked there for radio is operated by our old friend David A. Kyle. Mr. Smith, Esq., is our "first" for this issue; the others, of course are long-time favorites. be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes toaay. The Rosicrucians (not a religious L Cityorganization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe X.L.G. ! Scribe X.L.G. i San Jose, California J Please send me the free book. The Mastery J , ofUfe, which explains how I may learn to J i use my faculties and powers of mind. Name. Address. IF  Complete Short Novel They were the finest interstellar agents -- and greatest circus stars -- the Service of the Empire had! I Des Plaines (Plan) # rev cat (qv)  NrAm (qy) phys. cult. Comml stndg, # #th. Prin ctrib gat Circus ot Gal, heav met, prec stones. (Encyclopedia Galactica , Vol. #, p#) Jules and Yvette F or twenty-eight minutes The Flying d'Alemberts -- who throughout two centuries had been the greatest troupe of aerialists of the entire Empire of Earth -- had kept the vast audience of the Circus of the Galaxy spellbound: densely silent; almost tranced. For twentyeight minutes both side rings had been empty and dark. The air over the center ring, from the hard-packed, imitation-sawdust-covered earth floor up to the plastic top one hundred forty-five feet above that floor, had been full of flying white-clad forms -- singles and pairs and groups all doing something utterly breathtaking. Suddenly, in perfect unison, eighteen of the twenty d'Alemberts then performing swung to their perches, secured their apparatus, and stood motionless, each with his or her right arm pointing upward at the highest part of the Big Top. As all those arms pointed up at her, Yvette d'Alembert moved swiftly, smoothly, out to the middle of her high wire -- and that wire was high indeed, being one hundred thirty-two feet above the floor of the ring. She did not carry even a fan for balance. She maintained her equilibrium by almost imperceptible movements of her hands, feet, and body. Reaching the center of the span, she stopped and posed. To the audience she appeared as motionless as a statue. Like all the other d'Alemberts, she was dressed in silver-spangled tights that clung to every part of her body like a second skin. Thus, while she was too short and too wide and too thick to be acceptable as an Earthly high-fashion model, her flamboyantly female figure made a very striking and very attractive picture -- at a distance. Close up, however, that picture changed. Her ankles were much larger than any Earthwoman's should have been. Her wrists were those of a six-footfour, two-hundred-fifty-pound timberman. Her musculature, from toenails to ears to fingertips, would have made all the beach-boys of Southern California turn green with envy. After a few seconds of posing, she turned her head and looked down at her brother Jules, on a perch sixty-one feet below her and an "impossible" sixty-four feet off to one side. Then, flexing her knees and swinging her horizontally outstretched arms in ever-increasing arcs, she put more and more power into her tightly stretched steel -- and Jules, grasping a flying ring in his left hand, began to flex his knees and move his body in precise synchronization with the natural period of the girl-wire system so far above him. Finally, in the last cycle through which she could hold the wire, Yvette squatted and drove both powerful legs downward and to her right -- and something snapped, with a harsh, metallic report as loud as a pistol shot T he wire, all its terrific tension released instantly as one end broke free and dropped, coiled itself up in the air with metallic whinings and slitherings; and Yvette d'Alembert, premiere aerialiste of all civilization, sprawling helplessly in midair, began her long fall to the floor. Eighteen d'Alemberts came to life on their perches, seized all the equipment they could reach, and hurled it all at the falling girl. One of her frantically reaching fingertips barely touched the bar of one swingIP mg trapeze; none of the other apparatus came even close. Jules, in the lowest position, had more time than did any of the second to spare. In the instant of the break he went outward and downward along the arc of the ninety-eight-foot radius of his top-hung flying ring. His aim was true and the force of launching had been precisely right. Yvette was falling face down, flat and horizontal, at a speed of over seventy feet a second as she neared the point of meeting. Jules, rigidly vertical at the bottom of his prodigious swing, was moving almost half that fast. In the instant before a right-angle collision that would have smashed any two ordinary athletes into masses of bloody flesh, two strong right hands smacked together in the practically unbreakable hand-over-wrist grip of the aerialist and Yvette spun and twisted like a cat -- except much faster. Both her feet went flat against his hard, flat belly. Her hard-sprung knees and powerful leg muscles absorbed most of the momentum of his mass and speed. Then, at the last possible instant, her legs went around his waist and locked behind his back, and his right hand flashed up to join his left in gripping the ring. That took care of the horizontal component of energy, but the vertical one was worse -- much worse; almost twice as great. Its violence drove their locked bodies downward and into a small but vicious arc; a savagely wrenching violence that would have broken any ordinary man's back in a fraction of a second. But Jules d'Alembert, although only five feet eight in height, had a mass of two hundred twenty-five pounds, most of which was composed of super-hard, super-reactive muscle; unstretchable, unbreakable gristle; and super-dense, superstrong, horse-sized bone. His arms were as large as, and immensely stronger than, an ordinary Earthman's legs. The two bodies, unstressed now relative to each other, began to hurtle downward together, at an angle of thirty degrees from the vertical, toward the edge of the ring facing the reserved-seat and box section of the stands. T he weakest point in the whole stressed system was now Jules' grip on that leather-covered steel ring. Could he hold it? Could he possibly hold it? Not one person in all that immense audience moved a muscle: not one of them even breathed. He held his grip for just under half a second, held it while that half-inch nylon cable stretched a good seven feet, held it while the entire supporting framework creaked and groaned. Then the merest moment before that frightful fall would have been arrested and both would have been safe, Jules' hands slipped from the ring and both began to fall the remaining forty feet to the ground. A high-speed camera, however, would have revealed the fact that they did not fall out of control. Each landed in perfect position. f Hard-sprung knees took half of the shock of landing; hard-sprung elbows took half of what was left Heads bent low on chests; powerful leg muscles drove forward; thick, hard shoulders and back muscles struck the floor in perfect rolls; and both brother and sister somersaulted lightly to their feet. Hand in hand, they posed motionless for a moment; then bowed deeply in unison, turned and ran lightly to an exit -- and they covered that one hundred yards of distance in less than five seconds. And the multitude of spectators went wild. They had seen a girl falling to certain death. They had felt a momentary flash of relief -- or actually of disappointment? -- when it seemed as though her life might be saved. Then they had watched two magnificently alive young people fall, if not to certain death, at least to maiming, crippling injury. Then, in the climactic last split second, the whole terrible accident had become the grand finale of the act. That it was a grand finale -- a crashing smash of a finish -- there was no possible doubt. The only question was, what emotion predominated in that shrieking, yelling, clapping, jeering, cheering, whistling and catcalling throng of Earthpeople -- relief, appreciation or disappointment? Whatever it was, however, they had all had the thrill of a life-time; and few if any of them could understand how it could possibly have been done. people inhabiting the nine hundred forty-two other planets of the Empire of Earth, scarcely one in a planet DesPlaines. Of those who had heard of it, comparatively few knew that its surface gravity was approximately three thousand centimeters per second squared -- more than three times that of small, green Earth. And most of those who knew that fact neither knew nor cared that harsh, forbidding, hostile DesPlaines was the home world of the Circus of the Galaxy and of The Family d'Alembert n The Service of the Empire (SOTE) was founded in # by Empress Stanley #, the first of the Great Stanleys, who, during her reign of # years (#-#) inculcated in it the spirit of loyalty and devotion that has characterized it ever since. Its spirit wavered only once, under weak and vicious Empress Stanley #, whose reign -- fortunately very short (#-#) -- was calamito full power, however, only under Emperor Stanley # ( reign # -- ), the third and greatest of the Great Stanleys, under whom it became the finest organization of its kind ever known. (Baird, A Study of Security, Ed. #, p#). The Brawl in the Dunedin Arms T he city of Tampeta, Florida, had a population of over fifteen IP had once been Tampa, St. Petersburg and Clearwater, but also all the other cities and villages between Sarasota on the south and Port Richey on the north. Just outside Tampeta's city limit, well out toward Lakeland, lay the Pinellas Fair Ground. There the Circus of the Galaxy had been playing to capacity crowds for over a week, with a different show -- especially with an entirely different climax -- every night. Jules and Yvette d'Alembert, as top stars of the show, of course had private dressing rooms. They also had private entrances. Thus no one connected with the show saw, and no one else either noticed or cared, that two short, fat Delfians, muffled to the eyes in the shapelessly billowing robes and hoods of their race, joined one of the columns of people moving slowly toward the exits leading to the immense parking lot. It took them half an hour to get to their car, but they were in no hurry. Out of the traffic jam at last, Jules maneuvered his heavy vehicle up into the second-level, west-bound Interstate Four and sped for the Dunedin district and the Dunedin Arms, one of the plushiest night spots in all North America. At the Arms, he gave a dollar to the parking-lot attendant, another to the resplendently uniformed doorman and a third to the usher who escorted them ceremoniously into the elevator and up to the fourth floor. At the check-stand the two Delfians refused -- as expected -- to part with any of their mufflings. Jules did, however -- also as expected -- give the provocatively clad hat-check girl a dollar before he handed his reservation slip and a five-dollar bill to the bowing captain. "Thank you, sir and madam, that worthy said. "We are very glad indeed to have you with us this evening, Mister and Misses Tygven. Will you have your table now, or perhaps a little later? "A little later, I think," Jules said, using faultlessly the RussoEnglish "Empirese" that was the court language of the Empire. He paused then, and gazed about the huge room. At his right, along the full two-hundred-foot length of the room, ran the subduedly ornate, mirror-backed bar. At his left were three tremendous windows overlooking the beach and the open Gulf. Heavy tables of genuine oak, not too closely spaced, filled the place except for a large central dance floor. On a stage at the far end of the room a spot-lighted, red-haired stripper was doing her stuff. Priceless paintings and fabulous tapestries adorned the walls. Suits of armor dating from the ancient days of chivalry stood on pedestals and niches here and there. The place was jammed with a gay, colorful and festive crowd; there were only a few vacant places even at that tremendously long bar. It was quite evident why the captain had suggested a short delay, so Jules said, "Yes, later, please. We will do a little serious drinking at the bar before we eat." And at the bar, Jules laid a fiftydollar bill on the oak and said, "A liter of vodnak, please. Estvan's, if you have it. In the original bottle -- sealed." "We have it. Mister." The bartender set out two glasses, a bowl of ice and the heavy, crudely molded, green-glass bottle of the onehundred-and-twenty-proof beverage that was the favored tipple of the rim-world, Delf. "We've got everything. And don't worry about it not being the clear quill. We don't cheat With our prices we don't have to" -- and he put down on the bar a dollar and fifteen cents in change, which Jules waved away. Before Jules opened the bottle -- he was looking into the mirror, and so was Yvette -- the man at Yvette's left finished his drink and moved away, and a tall, slim Earthman came up to take his place. Holding up one finger to the bartender, the newcomer said, "I'll take a jigger of the... T hat was as far as he got. "Rube!" Yvette snapped -- throughout the years, half of the old-time circus battle-cry of "Hey Rube!" had survived. She grabbed the heavy bottle by its neck, and hurling it even as she dropped -- dropped safely under the vicious blaster-beam that, having incinerated the slender Earthman, swept through the space her chest had occupied an instant before. Still in air, falling almost flat, she braced one foot against the bar, dived headlong under the nearest table, bent her back and heaved. The blaster-beam, however, had already expired. The heavy bottle, still full and still sealed, hurled with a DesPlainian's strength and with an aerialist's sure control, had struck bottom-on squarely in the middle of the gunner's face -- and that gunner now had no face at all and scarcely enough head to be recognizable as human. Jules, too, was busy. He too had dropped at his sister's warning word, scanning the room as he fell. He too made a dive; but his was high and far, toward a table for six at which only two couples sat. One of the men at that table, half hidden behind a tall and statuesque blonde, had started to rise to his feet and was reaching for his left armpit. Jules lit flat on the table and slid angle-wise across its length, in a welter of breaking and flying dishes, glassware, silverware, food and drink, directly at the man trying so frantically to draw his weapon. En route, Jules brushed the blonde aside. He didn't push her hard at all -- just a one-handed gentle shove; just enough to get her out of the way. Nevertheless, she went over backward, chair and all, and performed an involuntary back somersault -- thus revealing to all interested observers that she wore only a lacy trifle of nylon in the way of underwear. Continuing his slide, Jules made a point of his left elbow and rammed it into the man's gut. Then, as the man doubled up and "w-h-oo-s-h-e-d" in agony, Jules whirled to his feet off of the table and chopped the hard edge of his right hand down onto the back of his victim's neck -- which broke with a snap audible for dozens of feet IF above the uproar then going on. Then, seizing the man's half-drawn weapon -- it was a stun-gun, not a blaster -- he glanced at its dial. Ten. Wide open. Instantly lethal. Clicking it back to three -- a halfhour stun -- he played its beam briefly over the other man at the table (the guy had been too quiet and too unconcerned by far during all this action) and whirled around to see how his sister was making out. Yvette was doing all right. The table under which she had disappeared had leaped into the air, turned over -- shedding dishes and so forth far and wide -- and crashed twn onto the table at which the first blasterman and three other goons had been sitting. She had picked the blaster up and had tried to bend it around the side of Number Two's head; but it broke up almost as thoroughly as the head did. Ducking as only such a performer as she was could duck, she grabbed Number Three by the ankles, up-ended him, kicked the flaming blaster out of his hand before it could kill more than three innocent bystanders and was going to use him as a flail on Number Four when that unlucky (or lucky) wight slumped bonelessly to the floor in the beam of her brother's stunner. She had the motion all made -- why waste it? -- So, continuing her swing, she hammer-threw Number Three over a few rows of tables and out into fifty feet of air through the middle of one of the three immense windows already mentioned. Have you ever heard four hundred and thirty-two square feet of three-eighths-inch-thick plate glass shatter all at once? It makes a noise. Such a noise that all lesser noises stopped instantly. And in that strained, tense silence Jules spoke quietly to his sister. Both were apparently perfectly calm. Neither breathed one count faster than normal. Only their eyes -- his a glacially cold gray; hers a furiously hot blue -- showed how angry and how disconcerted they both were. "Many more of 'em, you think?" he asked. "Not to spot." Yvette shook her head. "And we've got no time to check." "Right. Take that one, I'll bring the other. Flit." Carrying two unconscious men, the two ran lightly, but at terrific speed, down three flights of stairs and out into the parking lot. The attendant, upon seeing what burdens they carried, tried simultaneously to run and to yell, but accomplished neither -- a halfhour stun saw to that. Tortured rubber shrieked and smoked as the heavy car spun out of the lot and into the highway Fortunately, traffic was so light -- it was then half past two in the morning -- that Jules did not have to drive far before a moment came when no other car was in sight. The d'Alembert vehicle, while it looked pretty much like an ordinary groundcar, was a little too long and too wide and too round and much too heavy to be any standard model. Thus, alone in the road for a moment, Jules punched IS three buttons and three things happened: #) the car's lights went out; #) from those too-round sides the two halves of an airtight, bulletproof, transparent canopy shot up, snapped together, and locked; and #) the vehicle went straight up, at an acceleration of four Earthly gravities -- having two Earthers aboard they couldn't hurry -- to an altitude of a hundred and ninety thousand feet before it stopped. J ules and Yvette removed what was left of their Delfian costumes -- which wasn't very much -- and stared wordlessly into each other's eyes for a long half minute. Then Yvette spoke: "That was our contact. Our only contact. And we don't know anythere was a leak. There had to be a leak, Julie." "That's for sure, and it was no ordinary leak, either. It had to be right in the Head's own office... Jules voice died away. Yvette shivered. "I'm afraid so. And we haven't an inkling, except for his retinal pattern, of who the Head is or where he is. He may not be on Earth, even." "Well, there'll be somebody in the Tampeta office here and they'll be on the alert. That brawl put the stuff into the fan but good. They'll be monitoring the channel every second." "But our friends' friends down there will be monitoring all channels every second -- and they probably have the codes." He thought for a moment, then grinned. "So I'll go back to one that's so old and so simple that they probably never heard of it... unless it'd fool our monitor, too... uh-uh. Whoever they've got on monitor right now is no dumb bunny; so here goes." He flipped a blue switch and raised his powerful -- and not too unmusical -- deep bass voice in song: "Sing of the evening star, Oh Susan; sweetest old tune ever sung. Oh, Susan, sweet one, tis..." "Susan here." A lilting, smoothas-cream contralto voice came from the speaker. There was a moment of silence, then the voice said "Cut!" and Jules flipped his switch; whereupon the voice concluded, "We'll beep you in. Out." "I'll say they're alert!" Yvette exclaimed; then went on, half-giggling in relief. "And she's fast on the trigger -- 'Susan here' my left eyeball. You made that whole thing up, didn't you, on the spur of the moment." "Uh-huh. If I'd had a little time the verse would have been as good as the music." Yvette snorted. "Ha! Modesty, thy name is Jules! I expect them to tap you for the Met any minute now. But you were right on one thing -- no dumb bunny could make 'S-O-T-E -- S-O-S' so fast out of that mess of yowling. But it won't really be a beeper, you think?" "Anything else but. My guess is a laser. They've got us lined up and they'll pour it right into our cup -- so I'd better set the cup to spinning." He did so, and in less than a minute the pencil-thin beam came IF In, chopped up Into evenly-spaced dashes by the rotation of the cupantenna of the car. There was of course no voice or signal. While Jules was manipulating his finders to determine the exact line of the beam, he said, " Better unlimber the launchers, Evie, and break out some bombs. Just in case somebody wants to argue with us on die way. I'll handle the other stuff." "That's a thought -- " She broke off; her tone changed, "But just suppose that's their beam?" "Could be; so we'll have to look a little bit out when we land. But they know that. So if everything's oke they'll engineer a safe approach -- we won't have to. They know who we are." Things had gone wrong. They had given the right signal at the rendezvous -- but the wrong people had responded. Now they had to find out whyl in Democracy failed because it could not cope with Communism . This failure , which began early in the twentieth century , became very evident when , in #, Canada, the United States of America and Mexico united to form the United States of North America. The Congress ed, but could not agree upon any effective action against Commitism. The Premier of Russia, however, acted. He issued orders; the recipients of which either obeyed them promptly or were promptly shot. ( Mees , History of Civilization , Vol. #, pl#) The Head S liding down the beam, the d'Alembert's vehicle was heading directly toward the roof of a building that towered at least forty stories above any other structure in its neighborhood. Jules slowed down; approached it gingerly; stopped half a mile away. It was all dark, except, strangely enough, for a small, brightlylighted spot on the roof of one wing. "Scan it," Jules said. "Infra first. See what it is." Yvette put her eye to the scanner. "Hall of State; Sector Four. That makes sense. State would be the best place to hide the Service, wouldn't it?" "Check. And the spot?" "Floodlight. One. That's a girl, standing in it. Young. Skinny, but not bad for an Earther. Black hair -- throat-mike -- sweater -- shorts -- two Mark Twenty-Nine Service blasters hanging loose -- sandals. Sneak up, Julie." Jules dropped the "car" -- which was in fact one of the deadliest fighting machines of its weight ever built by man -- down to within a couple of hundred yards of the lighted spot and stopped; and that highly distinctive throaty contralto voice came again from the speaker. "It's safe to talk now if we don't say too much," the voice said conversationally. "Are you armed?" "Yes." Jules wasn't saying much, yet. "Good. You won't need these, then." The girl walked out of the ring of light, put the brutal big hand-weapons down on the roof, and resumed her former place. "You recognize my voice, of course." "Yes." "You have a retinascope, I suppose." "Yes. Hold it a minute." Jules cut com and turned to his sister. "I don't like this a nickel's worth. What Earther's pattern, except the Head's, would we recognize without a comparison disk? Nobody's. So, if this is on the up and up, we've got to manhandle the Head himself." Yvette bit her lip. "Well, you said they'd arrange a safe approach, and that certainly would be one. What else can we do?" "Nothing," and Jules again flipped the blue switch. "Go ahead." "Land anywhere you please and one person will come aboard. Unarmed." "Oke." Jules landed the car well away from the ring of light and opened a port. In the darkness all that could be seen of the man who came up, empty hands outstretched, was that he was of medium height, of medium build and almost completely bald. He put his hands in through the port and Yvette, taking one of his wrists in each hand, helped him through the narrow opening and into the cramped front compartment of the car, where she held him gently but securely while Jules applied the retinascope to the Earthman's right eye. "The head himself," Jules said. "I'm sorry, sir... " "Think nothing of H, Jules." The stranger laughed deeply. "If you had acted differently I would have been amazed, displeased and disappointed. As it is, I am very glad indeed to meet you in the flesh," and he shook hands vigorously. "And you too, Yvette, my dear." Taking her hand, he kissed it in as courtly a fashion as though that tiny, cramped compartment were a ballroom. "And now -- purely a formality, of course -- the eyes. Yvette first, please," and he handed her the 'scope. She fitted it to her eye. "But you didn't put any disk in," she said. "Surely, sir, you don't..." A pattern briefly, then Jules'. "I don't know very many patterns, of course; but Jules and Yvette d'Alembert? You're too modest altogether, my dear." Then, opening the port, he called out, "Still safe, Helena?" "Still safe, father," the girl called back, and began to walk toward the car. "Nothing suspicious, they say, within three hundred miles of here." "Fine," Jules said. He opened the car up and all three got out. Jules went on, "I was hoping we were fast enough to get away clean, but I couldn't be sure. Now, sir, about our guests," and he jerked a thumb toward the rear compartment where the prisoners soddenly slept. "Ah, yes. I've been wondering about them. The reports were confused and contradictory." "I'm not surprised; it happened IF fast That one -- " Jules pointed -- "is probably just a low-bred gunnie that doesn't know a thing. The other one may not know anything or he may know a lot," and he told, in a very few words, about the too imperturbable observer of the brawl. He finished: "So our secret rendezvous was no secret." "I see." The Head raised his left wrist to his lips and said, "Colonel Grandon." "Yes, sir?" "Be on the roof in exactly two minutes. You'll find two men who got number three stunbeams about twenty minutes ago. They're in a Mark Forty-One Service Special near Space Jay Twelve. Revive them, find what they know and report." "Very well, sir," and the Head led the way to an elevator. The elevator took them down to the thirty-first floor, where it stopped of itself and opened its door into what was very evidently the private office of an exceedingly important man. It was a fairly large room, furnished richly but quietly. The rug, brown in color, was thick and soft. The beamed ceiling was of beautifully grained brown solentawood; the paneled walls were of the same fine, almost metal-hard wood. On the wall behind the big solentawood desk was inlaid the gold-crowned Shield of Empire. "Now we can talk," the girl said then, holding out her hand to Jules. "I'm Grand Lady... Oh, excuse that please!" She flushed hotly, whereupon Jules kissed her hand in true Court style; after which she shook hands cordially with both Jules and Yvette. "She should blush, friends," the Head said, but with no reproof in his voice. "But she hasn't been in the Service very long." Turning to the girl, he went on. "You are the Head's Girl Friday here, my dear. Our guests are of the thinnest upper crust of the entire Service; their worth to the Crown is immeasurable -- beyond any number of Grand Ladies. We'll sit down, please, and Helena will pour. A whiskey sour for me, if you please." He cocked an eyebrow at his two agents. "Yours?" "Orange juice, please," Yvette said, promptly; and Jules said, "Lemonade, please, if you have it handy." D rinks in hand -- Grand Lady Helena was drinking a weirdlooking ice-cream concoction -- the Head said: "The attack on you was a complete surprise. No leak, no hankypanky was even suspected until the man who was to bring you to me here was killed. The connection between this business and the matter that brought you to Earth is clear. In that connection it is a highly pleasing thought that the opposition knows nothing of you or of the Circus. You agree?" "I agree, sir," Jules said, and Yvette nodded. But Helena was puzzled. "How can it follow that they don't know, father?" "The d'Alemberts are new to you because there is no record anywhere IF of any connection between them and us. Except for this surprise attack you would not be learning of them now. I will go into detail after they leave, but for the present I will simply state as a fact that no one who knows anything about them would send only six men against Jules and Yvette d'Alembert. Or, if only six, all six would have fired simultaneously and on sight at them instead of burning the contact man first. That shows that they were more afraid of the Service here than of the supposed Delfian agents -- a fatal error." "Oh, I see -- excuse me, please, for interrupting." "That's quite all right. It's part of your education, Girl Friday. To proceed: we are investigating. We will find out where the leak is here and clean up the mess. In the meantime we will go ahead with the business for which we scheduled the Circus of Earth. There's trouble: centering, probably, on Durward. I'll give you all forty-odd reels of the record on it, but there are many things that are not on record and never will be, which is why I had to discuss it with you in person. You'll also have to talk to some outsiders to get the full picture. You may want to conduct preliminary investigation on Earth andor elsewhere before you go anywhere near Durward." The Head got up. These were his most valuable agents, and the fact that he had brought them here was a measure of the importance he attached to the situation. He had fully expected that there would be trouble waiting for them between the Circus and his office... and he had been equally confident that the d'Alemberts would be able to handle it. What he was less sure of was that they -- even they -- would be able to handle the trouble that lay ahead. He said abruptly, "Let's fill in some background. For example, consider the question of loyalty. The Service is loyal to the Crown as the symbol of Empire; to the wearer of the Crown, whoever or whatever he or she may be, as the focal point of the Empire. You agree?" "Of course, sir," Jules said, and both girls nodded. "Very well. In early #, when Crown Prince Ansel was planning the murder of every other member of the Royal Family, if we could have caught him at it in time we would have burned him down, Crown Prince though he was." "Why, I... suppose that... yes, sir," Jules said, and Yvette added thoughtfully: "I never thought of it before in just that way, sir. But that's the way it would have to be." "Nevertheless, after those eleven murders were accomplished facts Ansel, as the sole surviving member of the House of Stanley, became Emporer Stanley Nine. Was there then any question of gunning him? No. We instantly became as loyal to him as we had been to his father Stanley Eight and now are to his son Stanley Ten." "Of course, sir. But what..." "Now comes some off-the-record IF material. Have you ever heard oi Banion the Bastard?" Jules thought for a moment. "I don't think so, sir," he said. ' Yvette shook her head, but this time Helena nodded and said, "Ohoh -- a light beginneth to dawn." "I didn't think you two had," the Head went on. "Not too many people now alive ever have." IV Even before Arnold invented the subether drive and made galactic exploration possible, all Earth except and North America was being infiltrated and undermined. The real explosion of mankind into space , however, did not begin until #, when Copeland discovered the uranium-rich planet Urania Four ; thus assuring all mankind of cheap and virtually unlimited power. In # the American anti-Communists, disgusted and alarmed by the success of the "do-nothings" and "do-gooders" in blocking all effective action , left Earth en masse for Newhope ; whereupon Communism took control of all Earth without firing a shot or launching a missile . ( Mees , History of Civilization; Vol. #, p#). Banion the Bastard jlTarsh ailing his thoughts, the Head drank half of his whiskey sour slowly, then went on, "Stanley Nine's weakness was women; particularly young ones. Although he married late in #, It by the end of that year the Empress was merely a part of the furniture and the then Duke of Durward -- one Henry, a bachelor of thirty -- saw his big chance. He combed his planet to find one highly special woman. She had to be young, a virgin, spectacularly beautiful, and highly intelligent. Also, as unscrupulous, as vicious, and as hard as he himself was. Also unknown on Earth or at Court. He found her... The Head paused to finish his drink and build another one. "The Beast of Durward," Helena said. "Surely you've heard of her " Neither Jules nor Yvette had, and the Head went on, "A small-time, ruthlessly ambitious actress. The Duke arranged and financed for her a tremendous and tremendously expensive splash at Grand Imperial Court, right here on Earth. Stanley Nine fell hard. He didn't stand a chance -- and, with the Duke's full backing, she kept him on the hook much longer than any other woman was ever able to. "When she was about seven months pregnant the Duke married her; with Nine's full approval. Thus her son Banion was born in wedlock as the first child of and the heir of the Duke and Duchess of Durward. That, however, wasn't enough for the schemers. Stanley Nine, still blindly infatuated with the extremely talented Beast, issued a Patent of Royalty, admitting paternity and bestowing upon the infant the unique title of 'The Prince of Durward'. This patent also authorized a coat of arms as follows: " 'Purpure, quarterly three dragons rampant or, in chief sinister a bend sinister or, in dexter... "Wait up, father!" Helena broke in. "You're not getting through to me at all, and I don't believe that's our guests' language, either." The Head laughed. "Gold dragons, rearing on purple enamel. The bar sinister, which may not be a mark of illegitimacy, in this case definitely was. It goes on that way for a couple of hundred words, only a few of which are pertinent. 'Bordure gules, charged thirteen bezants sable'. Poor heraldry -- color on color and an unlucky number of spots on a background of blood -- but that and the fact that the Patent was dated Friday the Thirteenth of June, #, are perfectly in keeping with the Duke's vicious sense of humor. "A couple of months later -- long overdue -- Nine finally got tired of the Beast and came to with a thud. He who had wiped out all the rest of the Royal Family had himself set up a pretender with a completely valid claim. He ordered the Service to kill the Duke and Banion and destroy the Patent; but he was 'way too late. The Beast had seen it coming and they got away clean. With the Patent. "The Patent, of course, was most important. It was hand-written and signed in carbon ink by Emperor Stanley Nine himself, on Imperial parchment, with the signature driven into the parchment by the Great Seal of the Empire of Earth. The Patent was revoked, of course, and erased from all record, and the people were proscribed; but that wasn't enough. That Patent had to IF be found and destroyed; but it wasn't. Banion the Bastard had to be found and killed; but he wasn't. "In #I there was a fairly serious uprising; which, it was deduced later, was engineered by the Beast on her own. At least, there was clear evidence that she tried to knife the Duke in bed and he cut her throat with her own blade. "The search for that Patent and the Bastard and his blood has been going on ever since #; twenty years before I was born. As I said, the record of it covers more than forty reels. Results were neglible -- except for finding, at a cost of eighty-nine lives, three very good forgeries -- until two years ago, when several leads pointed back to Durward again. We sent agents, who found nothing. Three months ago all those agents stopped reporting. I sent in four of our best -- with orders, of course, to avoid all previous contacts -- and have not heard from any of them. Hence the Circus; the heaviest artillery the Service has. The threat to Stanley Ten and The Family is grave indeed. Just how grave I myself did not fully realize until the event of last night. "Duke Henry was born in #, ninety-seven years ago; so he is probably dead. So it may or may not be his children andor grandchildren who are carrying on. The Bastard, though, at #, may still be a potent force; and he undoubtedly has children and grandchildren whom we don't know anything about, either. "Your job is composed of two equally important parts. One, to find the genuine Patent and to briog it in so we can check its authenticity and so Stanley Ten can destroy It with his own bands. Two, to kill Banion the Bastard and aH of hti blood. Goodbye and good luck." B ack at the Circus, well after daybreak, Jules and Yvette reported to their father, the Managing Director. Then they drove out to the edge of the field, snugged their "oar" down into its berth in their ultra-fast two-man subspacer, and Jules said: "I knew the Head would have to be a Big Wheel, but not that big. If his daughter's a Grand Lady he's got to be a Grand Duke, no less. I think maybe I've seen his picture somewhere or seen him in a parade or something on tri-di..." "Oh, brother " Yvette snorted. "And I use the term advisedly. If you didn't recognize Grand Duke Zander von Wilmenhorst on sight! Oh no, he isn't much of anybody -- just one-half Stanley blood and the fifth from the Throne itself, is all. You'd better break out your Peerage and start studying it." "Uh-huh. What a cover for the Head -- my God, he owns Sector Four!" They slept until half past two; then went into the main tent to watch the climax of the matinee. They watched, with trained and minutely observant eyes, Yvette and Jules d'Alembert perform flawlessly a heart-stopping variation of the act they themselves had performed the night before. Five minutes later, the younger couple still in spangles, the four d'Alemberts sat at a table in the commissary. The two men looked very much alike; so did the two girls -- which was not surprising, since the two couples were two pairs of twins born of the same parents three yean apart No one except a DesPlainian could have told the two men or the two girls apart except by direct comparison. To the personnel of the Circus of the Galaxy this succession of top stars was routine. In the two-hundred-year history of the Circus there had been almost a hundred pairs called "Jules and Yvette d'Alembert"; there would continue to be a succession of them, one new pair every two or three years, as long as the Circus should endure. "How'd we do, Gran'paw?" the younger brother asked. "It must have been a treat to see a good performance of your act." "Close the orifice, Jules," the younger girl broke in. "Oh, you're calling me Jules already?" "Certainly. You are Jules now. What I started to say was, that's the way people break their arms, patting themselves on the back so much." "Oke. What I meant was, I'm glad the Head pulled them out of the Circus for special duty. It wouldn't be too long before they'd spatter themselves all over the ring the way their joints are creaking now. How about that, Jules?" and Jules grinned at Jules. "That is very true and very sad. Jules," Jules agreed, as a waitress came up to take their orders. "These ancient and unwieldy bones are just about ready for the fertilizer mill. The old-time pep is all shot..." "Stop crying, Jules, poor dear," the waitress said. She was, of course, a d'Alembert, too; and she had been a star. "Before I break down and dilute your soup with a flood of tears of my own. The King and Queen are dead, et cetera. So what? You're just getting started on your real jobs. The usual?" "Not quite," Yvette said. "You can get fresh orange juice here and I'm drowning myself in it. Squeeze me half a liter, please Felice dear, besides the usual." " 'Drowning yourself is right," the younger Yvette said, darkly. "I've got to watch my figure; so Fll have one small glass of lemon sour and a lamb chop." After eating, the older Jules and Yvette left the Circus -- without a ripple to show that they had gone. V Communism could gain no foothold on the new , raw planets. Communists wanted to agitate , not work; and on the planets a man either worked or died . Confined to Earth and no longer able to keep its masses in line by the imaginary menace of warmongering Capitalism , and facing squarely the fact that men will not produce efficiently under the lash , Communism came to a very low ebb... until it was saved by Premier Koslov, a strong and able executive , who in # IF made himself King Boris I of Earth and formed a harsh but just absolute monarchy based upon the profit motive. ( Stanhope , Elements of Empire, p#) Citizens of Earth J ules and Yvette studied, analyzed and restudied forty-seven spools of top-secret date, then sent them -- top-secretly -- through channels back to the Head. Then they visited more or less openly almost every district of Earth. At every point they encountered the same not-right odor. Something was definitely wrong. Security had been breached -- within the Service itself! To Jules and Yvette d'Alembert the situation shrieked for action -- instant effective action, at that. If the Service caught a chill, a hundred outlying planets lay under the threat of double pneumonia. For the Service was the ganglionic nerve system of the Stanleys themselves... and every bright, burning star, every immensely long, black spacelane, every whirling world and pocket of cosmic dust trembled and shook when those nerves tingled. As the evidence grew it became clear that there were two courses of action. They could patiently, painstakingly search, sift and study... and hope for a break... or they could plunge themselves into a trouble spot -- offer themselves as bait -- risk life and limb on a gamble, and trust to mind and muscle to get them out. These were the choices... But really, there was no choice -- because they were the d'Alemberts. "Out of everything we've learned I can see only three points of attack outside of Durward itself," Jules said, thoughtfully. "Algonia, Nevander, and Aston. Years apart. Three forged Patents of Royalty, fiightynine good agents down the drain... most of them probably as smart as we are... in spite of all the them..." He paused. "Uh-huh. Go on. Or because of it." the solider the security. We think. But that thing in the Head's office didn't smell exactly like Coty's L'Arigon." "I'll say it didn't. Usually they commit suicide or get their throats cut, but he simply disappeared. Absolutely vanished." "So we'll roll our own, except maybe for tops. So the big question is, what's our best cover?" "Well, we can't be Earthers, that's for sure." Yvette shrugged her shoulders and indicated his shape and her own. "Nor Delfians, to stand inspection. We're obviously DesPlainians. No other high-gravity planets were ever colonized, were there? Except Purity, of course... I wonder." Jules frowned in thought. "That's a thought, sis; that splinter-group of crackpots on Purity. We can be Puritans." Yvette nibbled her lip. "But would it work? They won't have anything to do with anybody they don't absolutely have to. Everybody's too rinful. They expect all the other planets, especially mother-planet DesPlaines, to be whiffed into incandescent vapor any minute by the wrath of God. There are a lot of renegade Puritans, though. Sinners ." "That's what I meant. We'll play it that they kicked us off because we got to be too sinful. We liked to dance and play cards and drink soda pop -- to say nothing of mining gold and platinum and diamonds and emeralds and bootlegging all our stuff to Earth. That's the way we made all our money. Remember?" Yvette laughed. "Just dimly. I must have been looking the other way at the time, but you can fill me in. They have kicked a lot of people off of Purity for doing just that -- and for much smaller sins, as well. Go ahead; it listens good." "Oke, but I don't know exactly what... get into compound low, brain, and start grinding... how about this? We'll have the Head make us ex-Puritan Citizens of Earth. You know how toplofty and you-be-damned Earthers are, out on the planets." "Uh-huh, and we'll be toploftier and you-be-damneder than anybody. I like." "Right. Concealment by obviousness. Rut as you said, not too many people ever even heard of Purity, and with our builds -- your build especially -- but wait a minute, how about disguising mel Hair down to my shoulders; waved and Hquidgolded. Eyebrows shaved to a different shape and golded. Handle-bar mustache, waxed to points and golded. A cockeyed hat with gold plumes two feet long. Cloth-of-gold sleeveless jersey and tight purple trunks. Arms and legs bare. A million dollars worth of jewelry -- genuine -- and a big, heavy swagger-stick that's really a blaster on one end and a stunner on the other. Think anybody'd recognize me as a DesPlainian in that kind of a fancy rig?" "I'll say they wouldn't!"' Yvette laughed delightedly, "anywhere on DesPlaines they'd shoot you on sight. The idea being that everyone would look at you and not bother to even wonder whether I was ir DesPlainian or not." "Uh-huh. Maybe it's a bit thin, but..." "I've got news for you, Buster." Yvette laughed again. "Not only it's thin, but also if you think I'm going to play little brown hen to that gorgeous hunk of rooster you're out of your mind. I'll design me a costume that will knock everybody's eyes right out of their sockets -- one that no DesPlainian woman would be caught dead in at a cat-fight." "Now you're chirping, birdie!" "That'll be fun! But it'll take months to grow your hair... a wig? Uh-uh." "Uh-uh is correct. Too chancy. But they've been working on this case for sixty-seven years, so a few extra weeks isn't going to make any important difference. And we'll have plenty to do in the meantime." "That's true. Oka -- let's fly at " IF T hus it came about, some time later, that the Executive Office of the Duke of Algonia was invaded by a couple whose likes had never before been seen on the planet Algonia -- or, for that matter, on any other planet. Jules was just as spectacular as his specifications had called for; Yvette was even more so. She, too, wore purple and gold -- what little there was of it -- with the arrangement of colors the exact reverse of his. Her shoes -- not silly pumps, but half-calf-high sure-grips studded with precious stones -- were royal purple. Her tight shorts were of golden jersey; her tight, sleeveless upper garment was of exactly the same shade of purple as her shoes and hair. She wore a wide, heavilyjeweled belt of nylon-backed gold; a jeweled half-veil of fine gold mesh; and, to cap the climax, a towering gold-filigree headdress of diamonds, emeralds and rubies that had been appraised at and insured thousand dollars. Paying no attention to the startled stares of the waiting people and office personnel, they walked calmly to the head of the line at the receptionist's desk. "We are citizens of Earth," Jules explained, as he courteously but firmly edged himself into the narrow space between a fat woman and the desk. He leaned over, picked up the amazed receptionist's hand and tucked a hundred-dollar bill into it. "Carlos and Carmen Velasquez, Citizens of Earth," he said gently, and dropped two ID cards onto her desk. "This k where visitors to your fair planet register, is it not?" "Oh, no, sir -- thank you, sir," the flustered girl said, as soon aa her eyes got back into place and she could again use her voice. ,  sir. "You will take care of it, my dear." Jules dropped three more notes on the desk. "Bring the cards over to the Hotel Splendide, after you have attended to it. We'll be there for a few days... or a few weeks, perhaps. Thank you, my girl." And the two walked out of the office as unconcernedly as they had walked in. At the Splendide; which was the plushiest caravansery the planet boasted, they soon became the favorite guests. Not only because they had the penthouse suite; #ut also because neither of them knew, apparently, that there was any smaller unit of currency than a five-dollar Earth bill. Whatever else they did, however, they always walked at a good, stiff hiking gait for at least an hour after supper. For the first few nights they explored; but after that, having found a route they liked, they stuck to it. Every night thereafter they drove out beyond the city limits, parked their car and took a six-mile hike along a fixed succession of narrow, lonely backcountry roads and bridle-paths; a route that had five places made to order for ambush -- and a route that they had gone to much trouble to publicize. For six nights they swung along at their five-miles-an-hour hiking gait in complete silence...  Complete silence? Yes. Their suregrip shoes made not even a whisper of sound against the blacktop: no item of their apparel or equipment rattled or tinkled or squeaked or even rustled. Everything had been designed that way. They could hear, but they could not be beard. Anyone laying for them would have to see them -- and they themselves had very acute hearing and aerialists' eyesight. Swinging along a clear stretch of road, Yvette asked, "S'pose we goofed, Julie?" "Uh-uh. Pretty sure not. It's just taking them time to get set. Senor and Senora Velasquez aren't the type to just disappear; it'd raise too much of a stink. Also, besides the king-size fortunes we're wearing, everybody knows that we've got enough money in the safe at the Splendide to start a bank and they'll want that So the job will take a lot of planning. This three-quartersnaked stunt wasn't designed to make it tough to impersonate us, but how would you go about finding two people to check out of the Splendide -- and get that half a megabuck out of their safe -- as us?" "Nicer" Yvette laughed. "I never though of it cutting both ways. They'll simply have to get a Des Plainian gangster and his moll... but wouldn't they have them ready?" "I don't think so. You don't find very many DesPlainians on lightgrav planets except in grav-controfled buildings. They no like -- for which I don't blame them. Another month of this with no work at gray and you and I both will be as flabby as two tubs of boiled noodles." "So we hope it won't be a month. Oke; we'll give 'em a few more days." Five more hikes were eventless. But on the sixth, at a place where the road would through a coppice of small trees and dense underbrush, their straining ears heard sounds and their keen eyes' saw movement F or concealment, the place was perfect, but in order to act the attackers had to move -- and low-echelon thugs are not very smart. Also, they had no idea whatever how fast their proposed quarry could move. Jules' hat and swagger stick and Yvette's tiara and handbag hit the blacktop practically at once as the two took off in low, flat dives ; he to his side of the road, she to hers. Diving straight through a bush, Jules slapped the nearest man lightly on the head -- gently, so as not to break his neck -- picked him up, and hurled him at another man, some twelve feet away, who was just getting to his feet. One jump -- he slugged the third in the solar plexus and in the same instant kicked the fourth in the face -- not with his toe, but with the whole big flat sole of his shoe. Four down and one to go. But this action had taken almost a second of time -- plenty of time for Number Five to get organized. Maybe he was the boss, since he'd been smut IP enough to station himself well off to one side. Number Two, who hadn't been hurt much, began to regain consciouness and to thrash around. Jules snaked bellywise over to him, picked his stunner up, and tapped him on the jaw with its butt. Then Jules crawled noiselessly around until he found a place from which he could get a fairly clear view toward Number Five; who, although he did not seem to realize it, was making a lot of noise. The seeing wasn't good -- the moon, while high, was only at quarter -- but jpt much light is necessary to use a stun-gun at close quarters. " P-s-s-s-t " the hood said, finally. "Ed! Hank! Spike! Did you get 'em. What the hell goes on?" He put his head out from behind a tree... and what went on was a halfhour stun. "Eve?" Jules asked then, of empty air. "Five here." "Same here," she replied from across the road. "No sweat. Is there any clear space over there?" "Yes -- we'll lug 'em over here." Yvette recovered her towering headdress and bag, then came across the road, dragging two limp forms by the collars of their leather jackets. In a few minutes ten unconscious or dead men -- Jules was afraid that he had hit Number Three a little too hard -- were laid out on their backs in a neat row. Jules picked up a stunner, then paused. "Uh-uh," he said, "Better give 'em the talk-juice now, so they'll be ready when we get 'em out of the house." "That'd be better." And Yvette took a hypodermic kit out of her bag and went to work. VI In two centuries the colonized planets numbered seven hundred , many of them having large populations. Interstellar commerce increased exponentially . Interstellar crime became rampant . The government of Earth , under a succession of strong and able kings , had been in fact an imperium for many years when , in #, King Stanley the Sixth of Earth crowned himself Emperor Stanley One of the Empire of Earth. ( Stanhope , Elements of Empire , p#). Storming the Castle Tules and Yvette did not drive  their car -- which was of course the biggest and most expensive one obtainable -- back to the hotel. Instead, they loaded their victims into the limousine like cordwood and took them to the "house" they had rented long since -- an estate so big and so far away from anywhere that the nearest neighbors meter Bofors working at full automatic. They unloaded their freight, then listened to the nine surviving hoodlums tell, completely unable to lie or withhold knowledge, everything they knew about crime -- and especially its biggest chief. The gamble paid off. "Got it!" exulted Jules when they were done. "I knew our friends -- whoever they are -- wouldn't stay out of a heist with this kind of money involved. But who would have thought that it was the Baron of Osberg... "You for one, brother dear," supplied Yvette. "And maybe me for another -- at least we knew the boss traitor had to be somebody big -- but tell me, are we going to sit here all night patting you on the back or are we going to do something?" Jules grinned and gave her a mock-salute. Then they gave each of the men a twelve-hour stun and went elsewhere. The castle of the Baron of Osberg was some seventy miles away. They parked the car a good mile down the road from it and, after selecting certain items of equipment, went the rest of the way on foot, being very careful not to be seen. Then, very cautiously and keeping continuously under cover, they made their way around what was actually a fortress. The two gates, front and rear, were built of two-inch-square bar steel, topped with charged barbed wire. Neither could be opened except by electronic impulses from inside the castle. The estate was surrounded by a reenforced concrete wall fifteen feet high, surmounted by interlaced . strands of charged barbed wire. The two grinned at each other and separated. Taking advantage of the high, thick hedges bordering the drive, they sneaked up to within six feet of the wall. Both squatted down. Eyes met eyes through the lower, leafless part of the hedges. Muscles tensed and, at Yvette's nod both leaped at full strength upward and inward. Each cleared the topmost wire by a good three feet, stunners drawn, and at the top of their silent flight they fired rapidly and precisely, stunning every guard they could see. Then, running around the main building, each taking a side, they stunned everything that moved. Yvette ran for the garage; Jules ran to the castle's back door. It was locked, of course! but a Talbot cutter burned the lock away in seconds. Jules did not know whether that door opened directly into the kitchen or into a hall; but the fact that it did open into the back hall mai# the job easy and simple. The door to the kitchen was not locked. The dozen or so people in it slumped bonelessly to the floor before any one of them realized that anything unusual was going on. Through the kitchen Jules went, through the butler's pantry and the serving hall, and put an eye to a tiny crack between thick velvet drapes. The "commons" room was immense. Its beamed ceiling and paneled walls were of waxed yellowwood. It was furnished lavishly and decorated profusely with ancestral portraits. At the far end there was an antlered fireplace in which a sixfoot log smoldered. Eleven men were in that room; some sitting, some standing; smoking or drinking or both; talking only occasionally and mostly in monosyllables; glancing much too frequently at watches on their wrists. Jules brought his stunner to bear and all eleven collapsed limply into IP their chairs or onto the floor. In a couple of minute Yvette came in. "Oke outside" she reported crisply. "Now the big frisk." "That's right." They went over the castle from subcellar to garrets, and when they were through they knew that everyone else inside the wall was unconscious. Then, and only then. Jules went over to the communicator, cut its video and punched a number. "This is the Service of the Empire," a perfectly-trained, beautifully-modulated voice came from the speaker. "How may I serve you? If you will turn your vision on, please?" "Sote six," Jules said. "Affold abacus zymase bezant. The head depends upon the stomach for survival." "Bub-but-but, sir... The change in the girl's voice was shocking. She had never heard any two of those four six-letter code words spoken together, and coupled with the words "head" and "survival" they knocked her out of control for a moment; but she rallied quickly. "He's home asleep, sir, but I'll get him right away. One moment, please," and Jules heard the strident clatter of an unusually loud squawk-box. "Lemme 'lone," a sleepy voice protested. "G'way. Cut out the damn racket or..." "Mr. Borton! Wake up!" the girl almost screamed. " Please wake up! It's a crash-pri red urgent!" "Oh." That had done it. "Oke, Hazel; thanks." "You are connected, sirs, and I'm out. Signal green, please, when you are through. #  She would much rather take a beating than listen to any part of the conversation that was to follow, whether she could understand any of it or not. "Praxis," Borton said. (Request for identification, symbol, or authority). "Fazzle and Fezzle." (Their own identifying numbers -- Agents Eighteen and Nineteen). "Holy..." Borton began, but shut himself up. The very top skimmings of the very top cream of the entire Service! "Oke." "Rafter, angles, angels. Angled. Suffer. Harlot static invert, cosine design. Single-joyful, singer, status, stasis. Over. "Afy -- God! Oke, but you didn't say where you are." "I don't know your code for local specifics, so... comprehend Old English ig-pay attin-lay?" "Ess-yay." 'Tate-ess-ay aron-bay berg-ozzay." "Catch . # "Front gate. Douse you glims short-long-short Over and out if oke." "Catch. Oke," Borton said. And its was oke -- perfectly so. If Agents Eighteen and Nineteen told any in the lake he'd do it -- and fast. "Here's your green, Hazel. Thanks." I n the time that elapsed before Borton's arrival at the estate of Baron's Osberg, Jules and Yvette questioned the eleven men. They didn't get enough to give them a dear lead to the planet Aston and a general idea of what the mob on Aston would have to be like. Then Borton arrived and they let him in. "You!" he exclaimed, looking from one spectacular agent to the other and back again. "Thafs a switch. You came in with bands blaring and pennons waving." "Check. They would be looking for pussy-footers." "Could be... If I may ask, I suppose there's a good reason why I wasn't let in on any of this?" #I "Very good. Come in and you'll see what it was." They led him back into the commons room and Jules waved an arm at the stupefied qten who, glazed eyes unseeing, , lolled slackly in chairs. "You used Nitrobarb," Borton said. "And on the Baron of Osberg. Half of them will die. I see." "They'll all die," Jules said grimly."Especially the Baron. Those who live through this will live a few days longer than the others. Is all. But you really don't see, yet Keep on looking." Borton's fast-panning gaze came to a burly, crew-cut man of thirtyodd and stopped. His face turned gray; he was too shocked and too surprised even to swear. "That's Alf Rixton," he managed finally. "My first assistant. He's been with me over ten years! top clearance -- lie-detector and hypnosis -- every year. He's done splendid work." "Yeah -- for the other side," Jules said coldly. "The only ones he ever gave you were the ones they wanted to get rid of. Take over, Borton, it's all yours. We'll IF have to stick around for a while -- it'd smell cheesy if we'd leave the planet too soon -- but we don't want to appear in this. Not a whisper. Nobody around here got a glimpse of us, but there are nine men -- " he told him about them -- "who shouldn't talk." "They won't. But listen! This mess here -- I couldn't possibly have done this alone!" "Of course not." Jules grinned. "Your assistant there cooked the whole deal up and helped you swing it. He was a tiger on wheels. Too bad the honors are posthumous."  Borton nodded slowly. "Thanks. One of our very best, he died a hero's death, defending gallantly and so forth -- sob, sob -- the louse. But this thing of me taking all the credit for an operation that..." He broke off and grinned wryly. "Oke." "Uh-huh," Jules agreed. Then he and Yvette said in unison, "Here's to tomorrow, fellow and friend. May we all live to see it!" And they strode blithely out. One nest had been cleared out -- it was time to move on to the next! Borton, motionless, stared at the closed door. He knew what those two were -- Agent Eighteen and Nineteen -- but that was all he knew or ever would know about them... But he had too much to do to waste much time wool-gathering. Shrugging his shoulders, he called his office and issued orders. Then he set up his recorder and began to ask questions of the hoodlums who were still alive. vn Empress Stanley # also reorganized, simplified and in a sense standardized the theretofore chaotic system of nobility. Her system , which has been changed very little throughout the years , is in essence as follows . Grand Dukes ride sectors of space, each containing many planets . Dukes rule single planets. Marquises ride continents or the equivalents thereof. Earls rule states or small nation. Counts rule counties. Barons rule cities or districts. Primogeniture is strict , with no distinction as to sex. Nobles may marry commoners or higher or lower nobles ; the lowerborn of each pair being automatically raised to the full rank of the higher-born spouse. ( Stanhope , Elements of Empire , p#) The Switch T he news broke early the following morning. It broke with a crash that was channeled to every planet of civilization. Carlos and Carmen Velasquez knew nothing of it until half past ten, when the eager waiter hurried in with the breakfast they had ordered a few minutes before. Ho was accompanied this time by his captain, who carried both morning papers in his hand. "Good morning, sir and madam," that worthy said. "You have perhaps not heard the extraordinary news on your receiver?" "Uh-us." Jules covered a yawn with his hand an shook his head. "We're hardly awake yet." He was wearing only purple-and-gold pajamas; Yvette wore her fabulous headpiece and a purple-and-gold robe that, while opaque in a few places here and there, was practically transparent everywhere else. "Something happen?" "Most assuredly! The most tremendous, the most sensational erf happenings, be assured!" He put the papers down on a side table and helped the waiter arrange the breakfast table most meticulously. "But you will read of it later. You will eat your breakfast now, please, while it is hot." And the two hotel men accepted gratuities and went back downstairs. After eating, Jules and Yvette went through the story with interest -- if with an occasional snort or giggle. The official version was der the masterly direction and leadership of Planetary Chief Borton, had been keeping this band of traitors under close and continuous surveillance for over a year. They had waited until they were sure that they had found every member and connection of the band, then they had struck everywhere at once. They had made a clean sweep. Faced with absolute proof of guilt, each traitor had confessed and each had been promptly executed, including the Baron of Osberg, who had been the leader. All had been cremated and their ashes had been dumped. The reporter was very glad to say that, since the Baron was the only member of his family involved in the crime, the Barony of Osberg would not revert to the crown. The Baroness Carlotta, who was very well known as a philanthropic clubwoman would succeed -- and so on. Planetary Chief Borton had had no help, not even from Earth. And there was no hint anywhere that nitrobarb -- the mere possession of which was by law a capital offense -- had been used. "Nice," Yvette said. "That story is so tight I almost believe it myself. But you said we'd have to stick around. Why? The fact that we were here on the planet -- coupled with the fact that those two Delfians had to be DesPlainians  would be plenty for people not half as smart as they are. Whether we stay here a month or leave today makes no difference -- except perhaps as an exercise in the old guessing game." "That's probably right, at that... Oke, we'll shoot in a call for the ship as soon as we're dressed." S ince the ship had to come from DesPlaines, it was eight days later that Carlos and Carmen Velasquez left the Hotel Splendide for the spaceport, scattering largesse from the penthouse to the limousine as they went. It was good to fed real gravity again; it was vastly more than good, when, safely inside a private lounge of the big subspaeer, they were met by three particular people -- two of whom were very special people indeed. " Julesl " a brown-haired girl shrieked, and took off at him in IF a flying leap from a distance of twelve feet. "Vonnie! Sweetheart!" He caught her expertly, although her momentum swung him around in a full circle; and for a long, ecstatic minute they stood almost motionless, locked fiercely in each other's arms. Yvonne pulled back a little, looked at him closely and shook her head. "I've got to have a picture of you. Both of you. They told me, but this is a thing that has got to be seen to believed. You always were a handsome dog, Julie, but now you're simply beautifull " She kissed him a few more times. "But I don't like that mustache -- it tickles! You know something? I asked the Council to let me be Carmen Velasquez -- begged them, practically on my knees -- but the old stinkers wouldn't. They made me take the thousand-point test, just like everybody else, and Gabby here beat me out." Jules grinned. "Did you think they wouldn't?" "Well, they certainly ought to've given me the job, since I'm engaged to the only thousapd-pointer alive. Anyway, I speared second place. I got nine eighty-nine." "That's mighty good going, sweet." There was a brief interlude, then Jules, with his arm still around his Yvonne's waist, turned to the two others, whom he hadn't even looked at before. The man was of his own age, size and shape, his hair, mustache, and eyebrows matched Jules' exactly. The girl, too, except for costume, was a very reasonable facsimile of Yvette, purpie hair and al. The man had been embracing Yvette ardently; the girl, having taken the towering ornament from Yvette's head and put it on her own, was unblushingly admiring herself in a mirror. "Hi, Gabby; hi, Jacques," Jules said, extending his free hand. "'Gabby', indeed!" the girl said, tossing her head in fine scorn. '"Grand Lady Gabrielle' to you, lout. I don't think IH even speak to any of the common herd any more unless they come crawling, bumping their foreheads on the floor." "Hear, hear!" "That's telling him, Gabby!" Yvette and Jacques said at once, and Yvette added: "I liked wearing these jewels and that crown and stuff, darn it," she mourned. "They did something for me," and the conversation became general. Jules and Yvette took off their spectacular finery and turned it over to the new Carlos and Carmen. They had their hair un-dyed and rebarbered long and plain; and Jules un-waxed and un-curled his mustache. They donned shapeless brown trousers and jackets of homespun and became in appearance somewhat unorthodox Puritans. The switch completed, at the next transfer-point a new Carlos and Carmen Velasquez, still tossing five-dollar Earth bills around like confetti, boarded the biggest and plushiest liner in port for a planet halfway across all explored space. T here wasn't room enough is Jules' cabin for him to pace the floor, so he stood still, with clenched fists jammed into his pockets. Yvette sat on his narrow bunk, frowning in concentration. "It's like fighting a fog," Jules aid, scowling. "And yet everything we find is just too damned pat" "You just lost me. Fog, yes. But I haven't noticed any patness." hasn't found any evidence that Duke Henry of Durward wasn't I, T, IT." "Which goes to show that he was." "Does it? He milked Durward of bucks. But could he possibly have got away with enough to finance a project that big this long? And the others... "I see what you mean. Never mind the others, let's pursue this one. Either he had help from the start or he hooked up with some. He'd have to, to do what he did." "That's sure. Yet nobody ever got a solid trace, ever. And the leads they did get didn't point to anything solid; just to nit-picking tuff. My thought is that every one of those leads was a trap -- a trap that worked." "And we weren't trapped because we made them come to us." "I'm not even sure of that." "My God! Surely you don't think this is a trap!" "Not exactly. I just think it may be. We have to follow it, of course, but we'll follow it with our eyes wide open and everything we've got on the trips. And if what we dig up points to Durward -- we'll go anywhere else in all space but there." "So you thing everybody's been barking up the wrong trees and all they've got is forty-seven reels of junk and..." "I said mayber Jules snapped. "I don't know anything!" "Which puts you one up on makes the most sense of anything I've heard yet So we jettison the junk and start from scratch... the big question being -- how? You're implying a Grand Duke. We can't go running around sticking nitrobarb into Grand Dukes at random." "How true; but you've read about top mobsters?" "So look. Durward is in Sector Ten. Algonia is in Three, Aston is in Six, Nevander is in Thirteen and Gastonia is a rim-world clear to hellangone out on the edge of Twenty." "How did Gastonia sneak into this muddle? It was muddled enough already, without another question mark." "My own idea. Empress Stanley Five started exiling rebels there way back in the twenty-two hundreds sometime and they've been doing it ever since. What could be nicer for recruiting purposes? But to get back on the beam, the Head thinks this thing is getting ripe. If it is, whoever's doing it has had to do a lot of heavy work and spent an ungodly lot of money. You can hide a lot of building -- armaments and such -- even without putting it underground. But you can't hide big flows of money from experts who know I J U how to look. So if you don't think I'm nuts,, we'll message the Head tonight to check the growth curves of all the planets for the last seventy got onto the top five or six." She looked at him admiringly. "I'm for it; strong. And then we go to Gastonia, or wherever?" "No. Then we go to Earth." She looked puzzled for a moment, then her face cleared. "I see. It would have to be a Grand Duke, at that, to get an agent into -- and especially out of -- the Head's own office... and the brains would almost have to be on Earth. You care smart, Julie; maybe we're getting Ttftoewbere, after all." T he ship docked and the two, they expected real trouble, and preparations were being made to handle it -- made their way to the middle-class dive that was the favorite hangout of the lower officers and the highest crewmen of whatever subspacers happened to be in port. That was all they had -- the name of the dive and a cryptic recognition signal bought for them by nitrobarb at the cost of a man's life. But it was enough. Since the latest ship to come to ground was DesPlainian, the six bouncer-guards of the place -- it was a somewhat unusual fact that all six of them were DesPlainians -- thought nothing of it when half a dozen leather-clad DesPlainian spacemen came bouncing in, shouting for strong drink and friendly girls. How could the guards have suspected anything? Or the brains, either, since the d'Alemberts had pitched them such a nice curve? There was no evidence that the Veslasquez pair had anything to do with what had happened on Algonia. And if they had had, what were they skyshooting off into the middle of nowhere for? The renegade Puritans' came in -- it was quite evident that they were renegades, since no Puritan in good standing would ever enter a bar -- and looked unconoernedly around. Since it was early in the afternoon, only one bartender was at work and only a few waitresses and B girls were on hand. The two strolled up to the bar and Jules said, "I was told to ask for the Blinding Flash and say the Deafening Report sent  me. The entire room exploded. The six guards tried, but before any of them could get his blaster half into action he was struck by over an eighth of a ton of the hardest meat he had ever felt. In the same instant Jules put his left arm around the bartender's throat and, with the blaster now in his right hand, drilloperator's head. He then whistled sharply at the terrified girls and waved his weapon at a corner; into which they and the few non-combatant customers were very glad indeed to run. In the meantime Yvette had divthe single earphone off the man's head, put it on her own, let the body fall and sat at the board. In two minutes the place was a shambles. When a five-hundredpound pair of DesPlainian freestyle brawlers strikes furniture it is the furniture that breaks, not the men. Two tables and half-a-dozen chairs remained intact; one savagely warring pair had gone straight through the heavy yellow-wood bar. And Jules, standing at ease with his blaster hanging at the loose, studied with keen appreciation the battles going on. He was not worried about the outcome. Only one result was possible. The guards were good, but they were not d'Alembert -- and those six d'Alemberts were the pick of the hardest-trained troupe of no-holds-barred fighting wrestlers known to man. In three and one-half minutes the place was practically a total loss, but the battle was over. The six survivors sported a few eyes that would soon be black, some contusions and abrasions, and several cuts, tears, scratches, gouges and bites that were bleeding more or less freely, but there had been no real damage at all. #I Jules said, as the sixth spaceman came to his feet, grinning hugely. "Drink up. There'll be at least some ginger ale left in whole bottles -- I think. And break out some champagne for the cuties. I wouldn't know whether they're still in the mood for fun and games or not, but at least we'll do the gentlemanly thing about the drinks. Now, barkeep my friend -- " he lifted that wight one-handedly over the bar, set him on his feet and put both big hands uncomfortably tight around his throat -- "Do you want to tell me all about all the gizmos between here and the boss upstairs or do I wring your neck exactly like a chicken's?" "I'll tell, I'll tell!" the man squawked. "Don't wring my neck -- please don't! It's all on the board there -- really it is -- the whole works!" "He isn't lying, Julie," Yvette said. "There's a whole row of special red indicators that doesn't belike the boss rings down and they set the traps from the board here." "That's it, that's it!" the man babbled. "There are blackjight beams across the halls up there, set to trigger blasters and stunners. The boss calls down and the man on the board sets up whatever he orders." "Oke. What's his door like -- wood or steel? Locked? And how about guards up there?" "Wood. Not locked. No guards -- no trouble ever gets to where he is, sir. He would've set 'em, of course -- " nodding his head at the dead blasted 'im too quick." "Oke. Lead the way. That's so in case of trouble you'll get it first -- from me, if necessary." Nothing happened until they reached the Boss's door. The bartender knocked -- no code, Jules noticed. A voice from inside the room called "Come in," and the pilot opened the door and led the way into the office. The man behind the desk was alone in the room. He gasped once, turned pale and reached for a row of buttons; IF but stopped the motion halfway as Jules' blaster came to bear. "Go ahead, push 'em," Jules said, but the boss, except for twitching muscles, made no move whatever as Jules gave the bartender a tap on the jaw, taking a hypodermic kit out of his pocket, went up to the desk. The man's eyes widened in panic fear. "Not that -- please not nitrobarb!" he pleaded, desperately. "I'm allergic to the stuff -- it'll kill me sure, my doctor says." "What makes you think this is nitrobarb? It could be plain distilled water!" ."Don't JTi ace me, mister! I think I probably know what you want... and you don't need to give me anything! I'll tell you everything I know without it, honestly I will!" And he did, and once again the d'Alemberts listened to the secrets of a traitors' nest. And it was, as Jules had expected it to be, a clear, straight lead to one man in one city of the planet of Durward. "Oke," Jules said, finally. "I won't kill you -- this time. Just tell your boss on Durward I'm coming; loaded to the gills with stuff he never even heard of." Then the eight d'Alemberts went back to their ship; where Jules and Yvette spent all the rest of the day and almost all of that night in the control room, the most secure spot they could find, composing and encoding a long message to the Head. When it was done, Jules rose, stretched and walked over to the galactic chart. Her eyes brooding, he set it for maximum span and turned on the activating circuits. As the great wispy star-clouds of the galactic lens took form, each surveyed star positioned with minute accuracy, he keyed the index locators for Durward, the planet to which all their hard-earned information pointed so surely, and for old Earth. Quickly the taped data spools whined and spun and printed out course and the dizzying distance in parsecs between the two planets. He said slowly, "All the signs say Durward is were the action is... " "I know, Julie," said his sister, covering a yawn. "So, of course we go to Earth. Well, what are we waiting for?" All explored space was divided into # wedge-shaped sectors; the line common to all sectors being the line through the center of Sol perpendicular to the plane of the Earth s orbit. Each sector was owned , subject only to the Throne , by a Grand Duke , Earth, by far the most important planet, did not belong to any sector , but was the private property of the Throne. Each Grand Duke had a palace , several residences and a Hall of State on Earth. Because of these facts the nobility of Earth were far more powerful than their titles indicated. The Principal Palace, in which all Grand Imperial Courts were held , was in Chicago; hence the Count of Chicago had more real power than most Earls and Marquises. More, in fact, than many Dukes . (Manley, Feudalism; Reel l, Intro Sec viii) The Massagerie I n his private office the Head was talking with a gray-haired man who, while old, was in no sense decrepit. Grand Lady Helena sat, shapely legs crossed, working on a twelve-ounce glass of cherry-icecream float. "But what does it mean , Zan?" the older man asked. "Route the Circus to Durward -- with instructions not to do anything whatever except circus routine. Carlos and Carmen Velasquez will not report and nothing they do, however wild, will be of any importance. And now this eawy-parlor business, right here on Earth I It doesn't make sense." "Not a beauty parlor, Bill. A massagerie de luxe. Or rather, The House of Strength of Body and of Heart'." "But don't you know what they're doing?" "Very little; and I don't want to know more. I give them a job; they do it their own way. I would hazard a guess that they have some reason to believe that a specific person they are interested in is likely to take an interest in bodybuilding. This, you will note, implies that they have reached the point of being interested in specific persons... but I don't know who. That is to the good. "As a recent event proved, the less I know of detail, the better." "That's true. No trace of your missing person?" "None. There probably won't be any until the d'Alemberts crack the main case. While they're working on it they get anything they want, with no questions asked." "As they should, especially since they want so little from us. I know that Circus taxes are rebated, but surely they spend more than that on Empire business?" "My guess is, they don't. The Circus is so successful that its taxes are very high, but the Duke won't say how high. I asked him once if we didn't owe him some money and he told me if I wanted to count pennies I'd better go get myself a job in a dime store." The old man laughed. "That sounds exactly like him. But DesPlaines is a rich planet, you know, and Etienne d'Alembert is a tremendously able man -- as well as being one of my best friends. Well, I'll leave you to your work. I like to talk to you when I'm feeling low, Zan; you give me a lift." He raised his glass. "Tomorrow, fellow and friend. May we all live to see it." They drank the toast and Emperor Stanley Ten, erect and springy, left the room. Helena grinned up at her father. "You didn't exactly lie, either; but if he knew as much as we do he wouldn't feel so uplifted." "He has troubles enough of his own without having to carry ours. Besides, we don't know who they're after. It could turn out to be someone outside those six, as well as not." The girl nodded. "If we had even a good suspicion, he'd get a shot of nitrobarb. All we know is that they haven't got a shred of evidence of anything. But how under the sun and moon and eleven circumpolar IP stars can this glorified gymnasium help solve anything?" "I haven't the most tenuous idea, my dear -- and just between us two, I'm just as curious as you are." A ten story gravity controlled building in the Evanston district of Chicago had been remodeled from top to bottom. All the work had been done by the high-grav personnel who now occupied the building. Over its splendidly impossign flared red: . and on each side of the portal, in small, severely plain obsidian letters on a silver background, a plaque read: duClos For weeks before the opening it had been noised abroad that this House of Strength would cater only to the topmost flakes of the upper crust; and that was precisely what it did. It turned down applicants, even of the nobility, by the score. Its first clients, and for some time its only clients, were the extremely powerful Count of Chicago, his Countess and their two gangling teen-age daughters. Since this display of ultra-snobbishness appealed very strongly to the ultra-snobbishness of the high nobility of the Capital of Empire, "duClos" raised snobbery to a height of performance very seldom seen anywhere. "Howre you doing, sis?" Jules asked, one evening. "I'm getting a few bites, but nothing solid. But there's a feel about Sector Twenty that I don't like -- I'm sure we're on the right track." "So am I, and I'm getting an idea. I wasn't going to mention it until I could thicken it up a little, but here goes. You know that Duchess of Swingleton? That snooty stinker that's supposed to be the daughter of the Grand Duchess?" Jules came to attention with a snap. "Supposed to be?" "Well, is then. Maybe I shouldn't have put it quite that way -- but you know how I've learned to sneer, in my own inimitable ladylike way?" "I wouldn't put that 'quite that way', either. If it was me on the receiving end I'd sock you right in the middle of your puss." "She'd really like to. I've been giving her the royal snoot all along and she's burning like a torch. But her mother, Grand Duchess Olga, takes it in stride. So why wouldn't Swingleton... unless she's bursting at the seams with something she's bottling up?" "My God, Eve! You think she's the Bastard's daughter?" "I'm not that far along yet; it's just a possibility. Not daughter; sixty-seven he would be; she's only about twenty. Still in the silly age -- which may account for her touchiness and everything. She's beautiful, athletic, rich, talented, noble and spoiled rotten. Her hobby is men. She works hard at it. So my thought is this: if she gets the idea from somewhere that duClos himself is the #? ness I'm positive that she'll insist sented, walked slowly around her on you coaching her yourself -- once, studying her from head to personally. You take her on, but foot from every angle. He scowled instead of bowing down and worand then said, "Maybe I can do shipping, you act like and say that something with this, but there you wouldn't be caught dead with doesn't seem to be much of anyher at a cat-fight, to say nothing of thing there to work on. Peel, you, in bed. If I'm right she'll blow up and I'll see." like a bomb and say something she "Peel?" The girl's head went even shouldn't." higher, her eyes blazed. "Are you t Jules whistled piercingly through talking to me?" she flared, his teeth. "Wow!" he said. "I'm talking to a mass of fat and a little flabby meat that ought to T hree days later, Jules accombe muscle but isn't," he replied panied Yvette into the apartcaustically. "Do you expect a master ment of the Duchess of Swingleton, sculptor to make something of a who proved to be a tall girl -- two tub of clay without touching it? inches taller than Jules -- beautiWear a bikini or tights if you like ful of face and figure, with dark -- although how you can imagine blue eyes and a mass of wheat-strawthat I, duClos, would get the thrills colored hair piled high on a proudlyover such a slug's body as yours is IF completely beyond my comprehened in practically nothing, duClos sion." was even less impressed than be"Get out!" Trembling with rage, fore. "Lard," he said, when his talshe pointed at the door. "Leave this ented fingers had reported their castle at once!" preliminary findings to his brain. He gave her his choicest top-deck "Flabby, unrendered lard; but I'll sneer. "Madame, nothing could possee what I can do with it. We'll sibly please me more." He executed go to your gymnasium now." a snappy about-face and made for "Why, aren't you going to take # the door. me to your place?" "Wait, you! Turn around!" He looked at her in amused and "Yes?" he asked, coldly. condescending surprise. "Are you "I am the Duchess of Swingleton!" that stupid? You'd fall flat and could "And I, madame, am duClos. hardly get up. Lt'll take a month of There are hundreds and hundreds work here before you'll be able of duchesses, but there is only one to work in the House of Strength. duClos." To your gymnasium, I say." She fought her anger down. "I'll In the castle's gymnasium, he said, put on a swimsuit," she said. "After "First, we'll show you what we, all, I do want to find out whether accustomed to three Earth gravities, you're any good or not." can do easily here on Earth," and But when she came back, dresshe and Yvette went through a routine of such violence that the apparatus creaked and groaned and the very floor shook. "Now what a fair Earth gymnast -- such as perhaps I'll be able to make out of you -- can do," and they showed her that. "Now I'll find out what you can do -- if anything. You can't do even fifty fast push-ups without going flat on your face," and of course she couldn't. He worked her fairly hard for half an hour, which was about all she could taken, then said, "That's enough for today, poor thing." Then, turning to Yvette, "Give her a massage in steam, and go deep. After that, the usual." "No, I want you to do it yourself," the girl said. "They say you're tops and I want nothing but the best." "Oke," Jules said, in a perfectly matter-of-fact voice, and peeled down to his white nylon shorts. "That'd be better -- I'll know more exactly how you come along." The ladies-in-waiting were shocked -- or pretended to be -- as the three-quarters-naked man worked on their completely naked mistress; but Jules, alone, of all those present, was -- apparently -- not affected at all. He was a top-expert masseur working, at his profession. T his went on for day after day. Since the Duchess was actually a strong, healthy, athletic girl, splendidly built, and agile both physically and mentally, she learned fast and developed fast. But for the first time in her life she had struck a man and bounced. It was an intolerable situation -- a situation that got no better at all as time went on. He stayed coldly impersonal and more than somewhat contemptuous; he was and he remained a master craftsman wasting his talents on material entirely unworthy of his skill. He paid no attention whatever to any of the little plays she made. One day, however, when she had become a pretty fair gymnast and was very proud of her accomplishments, all the ladies-in-waiting disappeared before the massage was to begin. "We don't need them any more, I don't think." She pose# wit b r her skimpy garment half off, and gave him an under-eyebrows look that would have put any other man she knew into a flat spin. "Do we?" "I don't, that's sure," he said, with the sneer that had become so maddening that she wanted to bash it back into his skull with a sledgehammer. "And if you're trying to seduce me you're wasting your time. You're a hunk of clay I'm trying to model into something halfway worth while, and nothing else. I'd not rather have you than any other mass of poor-grade clay -- or a dime's worth of cat-meat." That blew it -- sky high. "You low-born oaf!" she screamed. "You clod! You base-born peasant, I'll have you flayed alive and staked out on..." She stopped screaming suddenly and her eyes widened the veriest little. "Stop running off at the mouth!" he rasped, timing it so perfectly that she knew he had interrupted IF her tirade. "My birth, high or low, has no bearing. I am duClos. I am trying to mold you into what our Creator intended you to be; His instrument to produce men, not the milksops and flabs now infesting this sinful planet Earth." "Oh? Don't tell me you're a Puritanl" she exclaimed, very glad indeed to change the subject. "I should have known it, though, by all that hair." "An ex-Puritan," he corrected her. "I do not believe that everything pleasant is sinful, but neglect of the human body most certainly is. So get in there. And snap it v CviAoK ? f ore y #U coo  # ff too 'mtSS?' Work went on, exactly as though nothing had happened. She graduated into the House of Strength and, everything considered, she did very well there. And she convinced herself quite easily that she had not revealed any tittle of the secret that had been held for sixty-seven years. DC As an example of the traditional loyalty of the Navy: When Empress Stanley #, her husband and four of their five children were assassinated in #, their youngest child, Prince Edward, escaped death only because he, then an ensign in the Navy, was being guarded as no other person had ever been guarded before. Fleet Admiral Simms declared martial law and, in the bloodiest purge in all history, executed not only all those found guilty, including Prince Charles and Princess Charlene, but also their entire families . He then made himself regent and ruled with an iron hand for six years. Then, to the vast surprise of all , he relinquished his regency on the day that Prince Edward came of age and he himself crowned Prince Edward Emperor Stanley Six. (Farnham; The Empire , Vol #, P#) The Fortress of Englewood J ules and Yvette deigned to accept six Grand Dukes and their wives as personal clients -- among whom were Grand Duke Nicholas and Grand Duchess Olga of Sector Twenty -- but that was all they would take. In that position of intimacy they dug up a few hints, but neither of them could lay hold of anything solid. At every opportunity they planted Earth operators in the kitchens, in the garages and everywhere else they could. These detectives found bits and pieces of information, but they could not find any leads to Banion or to any of his blood; nor to the all-important Patent of Royalty. "We've got to take this to the Head, Eve," Jules said finally. "I hate to yell for help on our first really big job, but he's just too damned big for us. And it's more than a possibility that it'd be the Head's head that would roll, not Duke Twenty's. We simply cant take the chance." Yvette nodded. "You're right, Fm afraid. He's really big... but he hasn't got a drop of Stanley blood in him... "Which is why he's playing it this way," Jules declared. "The power behind the Throne. I'll set up a meet." He set it up and they laid the whole ugly mess squarely on the line, and while they talked the Head aged ten years. When they were done he sat silent and motionless, in intense concentration, for a good fifteen minutes. They could almost feel the master strategist's keen brain at work. Finally he lifted his head sharply and he said: "I was hoping it would be one of the others, but you're right. We can't move against him without the genuine Patent actually in our hands." Jules scowled. "That's what I was afraid you'd say. And that Patent must be in the solidest safe-deposit vault on Earth." "It isn't," the Head said, flatly. "The Emperor can open any bank vault he pleases, with no. reason at all. So it's in a vault as good as any on Earth, but in the deepest subcellar of Castle Englewood. I'd stake my head on that. Theoretically, the Emperor could open that vault, too, at whim. But trying it would touch everything off and Nicholas might win. So I'm going to stake all our heads. No matter how daintily we try to pussyfoot it, there's always the chance of our touching off the explosion. However, there'd be no point in his as the Emperor and the Empress are alive, so what do you think of this?" and they discussed details for two hours. T hree days later, the news media announced that Emperor Stanley Ten had had a heart attack. It wasn't too serious, as such things go, but a battery of specialists agreed unanimously that he had to have at least two months of carefree rest, preferably at his favorite summer place, Big Piney in the Rockies. Wherefore Crown Princess Edna was given the unusual title of "Empress Pro Tem" and her parents went, with no pomp or circumstance at all -- not to Big Piney, but to an island in the Pacific that was guarded by every defensive device know to the military science of the age. And Empress Pro Tern Edna announced a party -- a getting-acquainted party that, beginning with a full Grand Imperial Court, would last for three days -- to which all thirty-six Grand Dukes and their entire families were invited. And did any of the invitees even think of declining? Not one. As that party began, Jules and Yvette and a regiment of experts went as insidiously as possible to work on Castle Englewood. Having free run of the place, as far as anyone now there was concerned, the two went first -- with stunners in their hands -- to visit the key personnel. They were followed by fifty cat-footed, fully briefed d'Alemberts, who took care of everyone else; particularly of the manytimes-too-numerous Castle Guard. Architects and engineers had detailed plans of the castle, but they were found useless. The actual details had never been registered. So electronic technicians unlimbered IF their most sensitive detectors and explored walls, floors and ceilings. They traced cable after cable, wire after wire; and section after section of the vast building went dark and powerless. It had been clear from the start that this was no ordinary residence of any ordinary Grand Duke. It was a fortress; a fortress that, except the d'Alemberts' ability to carry it out, would have been starkly impregnable. And, even so, the attack almost failed. "How about this, Major?" Jules asked, as the company, after exploring all the other tunnels and corridors in the sub-basements, returned to a grimly thick steel wall. "It opens from somewhere, somehow." The officer pointed out an almost invisible crack where steel butted against steel. "It'd probably take a week, though, to find out where or how. I think we cut all external leads to here, but they could have independent power in that section." "We'll assume they have," Jules said. "And automatic blasters -- or worse, stunners. Gas, maybe, or triggered bombs. But the Head gambled his life on a lot less than we know now, so bring up your shields and high-powers and burn the damned thing down." When the eight-inches-thick mass of armor-plate fell inward into the squad of tremendously-muscled DesPlainians, it struck a steel floor with a crash that shook the very bed-rock upon which Castle Englewood was built. One glance, however, was all Jules had; for even before steel struck steel he was smashed down flat by a force of twenty-five gravities; and the fact that the musclemen inside the room went down too was of little enough comfort. They were weight-lifters. He wasn't. U ltra-grav!" Jules gritted, through his clenched teeth. "Can you fellows do anything with it, Rick?" he demanded of the leader of the fighting wrestlers who had done such good work on Aston. "It looks like they've got me just about stuck down." "We're working on it, Chief," Rick said hoarsely, and they were. It was fantastic to see two-hundred-fifty-pound brawlers, muscled like Atlases, exerting every iota of their tremendous strength; first to get up onto their knees and then to lift, with the full power of both arms, a five-pound weapon up into some kind of firing position. Unfortunately, one of the guards -- a giant even for a DesPlainian weightlifter -- made it first. His first blast went straight through the man in front of Jules; and Jules, who had managed to get almost to his knees, lost a fist-sized chunk of flesh out of his left leg and went back down. Only the one guard, however, beat the d'Alemberts into action. In the ensuing awkward, slow-motion battle eighteen men died; eight of them being the Grand Duke's guards. Then slowly, ultratoilsomely, the d'Alembert found the gravity controls and restored a heavenly three thousand centimeters per second. And Yvette, who had been pinned down all this time, rushed over and first-aid-bandaged the ghastly wound in her brother's leg. They did not try to unlock the vault. It was too late now for catfooting. Demolition experts brought up their shields and sandbags and blew the whole face of it to bits. They removed the debris and ransacked the vault -- and they found a Patent of Royalty. Then, hearts in throats and scarcely breathing, they looked on while hand-writing experts and documentary experts gave that parchment the works. "This is the genuine Patent," the chief examiner said finally; and in the joyously relieved clamor that followed even the dead were for the moment forgotten. The rest of the project went smoothly enough. The full regiment of Imperial Guards sealed the Principal Palace bottle-tight. The Navy put an impenetrable umbrella over all Chicago. Fleet Admiral Armstrong himself led a company of marines into the Grand Ballroom and broke up the Empress Pro Tern's party by putting Grand Duke Nicholas and his entire retinue under arrest. And immediately, then and there in the Grand Ballroom, the Emperor's personal physician administered nitrobarb and the Court Psychologist asked questions. And Empress Pro Tern Edna, her face too stern and hard by far for any girl of her years, listened; and having listened, issued orders which Fleet Admiral Armstrong carried out. Since it is much faster to work such an inquiry from the top down than from the bottom up, full information was obtained in less than a week. And thus, while the resultant vacancies in the various services were many and terribly shocking, the menace that had hung over the Empire for sixty-seven years was at long last abated. And thus -- a thing supremely important to Jules and Yvette d'Alembert -- the Service of the Empire was at long last clean. X Because of their high intelligence , their super-cat agility, their hairtrigger speed of reaction and their enormous physical strength , DS? Plainians had been the best secretservice agents of, in turn , the Central Intelligence of Earth, the Galactic Intelligence Agency and the Service of the Empire. And of all DesPlainians, throughout the years, the d'Alemberts had been by far the best. The fact that the Circus of did not leak from . Earth because only the monarch, the Head and a very few of their most highly trusted intimates ever knew it. Nor did it leak from the Circus. Circus people never have spoken to rubes, and the inflexible Code d'Alembert was that d'Alemberts spoke only to d'Alemberts and to the Head, (unpublished data) Bill, Irene and Edna A gain it was late at night. Again the d'Alemberts Service Special slanted downward through the air IF toward the roof of the Hall of State of Sector Four. This time, however, the little speedster was not riding a beam and there was no spot of light upon the building's roof. Except for the light of the almost-full moon, everything was dark and still. Yvette was the Yvette of old. Jules, again short-haired and smoothshaved, looked like his usual self; but there was a crutch beside him and his sister was doing the piloting. She landed the craft near the kiosk of the ultra-private elevator, opened up and leaped lightly out; IwUviatmho re d out, clumsily and stiffly; and Grand Lady Helena came running up in a very ungrandladylike fashion. "Oh, you're wonderful, Yvette -- simply marvelousl" She put both arms around Yvette's neck and kissed her three times on the lips. "I'm awfully glad father let me be the one to meet you!" She turned and went somewhat carefully into Jules' arms. "And you, Jules! Oh, I just can't -- but surely you can hug a girl tighter than this, can't you? Even with a bum leg?" Jules, returning her kisses enthusiastically, tightened his arms a little, but not much. Then, lifting her by the armpits, he held her feather-lightly out at arms length, with her toes ten or twelve inches in air. "Sure I can," he said, solemnly but with sparkling eyes, "but the trouble is, I never hugged an Earther before and I'm afraid of breaking you in two. It wouldn't be quite de rigeur, would it, to break a Grand Lady's back and half of her ribs?" "Oh, there's no danger of that . I'm ever so much stronger than... She broke off and her eyes widened in surprise as her hands, already on his arms, tried with all their strength to drive her fingertips into them. "Oh, I see," she said quietly. "I never quite realized." Jules lowered her gently to the roof and she led the way into the elevator. She did not tell them what the Head wanted of them and they did not ask. As the elevator started down she said, "Jules, I'm going to tell you something. I was all set to fall in love with you and make you love me whether you wanted to or not. But when I couldn't make even a dent in those muscles of yours... arms as big and as hard as those of a heroicsize bronze... well... Her voice died away. "You couldn't, possibly," he replied soberly. "There's too much difference. Three of your gravities is a lot of grav, Helena. But we have your friendship?" "More than that, both of you. Ever so much more. That, and admiration and esteem and..." She broke off as the elevator door opened. She stepped aside; motioned for them to precede her. They took one step into the Head's private office and stopped dead in their tracks, their eyes and mouths becoming O's of astonishment. For -- The big but trim old gray-haired man was Emperor Stanley Ten! The statuesque, regal, brown-haired woman was Empress Irene! And the beautifully built, prematurely sternfaced girJ mixing drinks at the Head's bar was Crown Princess Edna. Ihe emperor stood up and raised a hand. "Do not kneel," he said -- but of course, with their speed of reaction, Yvette was already on her knees and Jules, gimpy leg and all, was on one. He raised them to their feet, kissed Yvette's hand and shook Jules' and said, "During this visit and hereafter in private, my friends, to you two I am Bill." "Oh, we couldn't, Your... Sire... not possibly," Jules said. "But we might call you 'sir', sir?" Stanley Ten smiled; and in that smiling shed a heavy load. "Oh? I understand. Many of the younger generation are not so well bred. 'Sir' will do very nicely. I take pleasure in presenting you both to Mrs. Stanley... and to our daughter, Edna." I ntroductions made, Edna Stanley went around with her tray, serving Jules last. As she handed him his glass of lemonade her dark, gray eyes, usually distant, were soft and warm. "It's a damned dirty stinking shame," she said, feelingly, "that we can't give you two, the two who saved our lives, at least a Grand Imperial Court channeled to every planet in space. And to cap it off we have to give that stuffed shirt Armsbold all the credit. The fathead! And he'll get another medal, I suppose -- and compared to you two he positively could not detect a smell on a skunk!" "Well -- " Jules began, but the princess rushed on. "Oh, I know that's the way it has to be, Jules, and I know why. And I know exactly how you feel about it. The Service of the Empire. The fine tradition of the finest group of men and women who ever lived. But knowing all that doesn't make it taste any better or go down any easier that all we can do is thank you for saving all three of our lives at such tremendous risk of your own, and that we have to do even that on the sneak -- or cost you yours." She threw her arms around Jules' neck and kissed him warmly. And, while he could not bring himself to the point of kissing the Crown Princess of the Empire as though she were an ordinary girl, his response was adequate. Edna Stanley was not the crying type, but her eyes were brimming as she drew her head back, looked straight into Jules eyes and went on, "But we three will remember it as long as we live; and you two will have a very special place in my heart as long as I live." Without giving Jules a chance to say anything -- which was just as well, since he could not possibly have said a word -- she wriggled free and embraced Yvette. "What did you expect, Yvette? And call me Edna; we're about the same age." "I'd love to, Edna, it warms me clear through. What I expected was a pat on the back from the Head there and another tough job." The Head laughed. "You'll get both, my dear." Then, turning to Stanley, "You see, Bill?" "I see, Zan. D'Alemberts. Metal of proof. Wrought and tempered." IF Stanley turned to Jules and Yvette. "You young people don't realize that your lives are more important to the Empire than mine is." "I not only don't realize it, sir," Jules said, doggedly, "but I don't see how it can possibly be true. You are the third and the greatest of the Great Stanleys. Eve and I are just two d'Alemberts out of over a thousand." "Correction, please. As of now you are, and probably for the next two or three years will continue to be the two most capable human beings alive." Stanley replenished his drink and brought Yvette a small pitcher of fresh orange juice, while Edna waited on the others. "Let's examine this 'Great Stanley' business a little; it will be a good way to get better acquainted. I've studied the House of Stanley quite thoroughly; enough to have developed what is -- to me, at least -- a new theory. Has it ever occurred to you to wonder why the three so-called Great Stanleys happened to be the three who reigned longest? Empress Stanley Three, thirty-seven years; Emperor Stanley Six, thirty-six years; and I, who have more than either, and will probably -- thanks to you -- reign two more before reaching the age of seventy and abdicating in favor of Edna here?" "N-o-o-o, sir. I can't say that I have." "It's a highly pertinent fact. You know, I'm sure, that only one Stanley so far has died in bed." "Yes, sir, but..." "And one died in a space accident. The other seven were assassinated, usually by their own sons or daughters or brothers or sisters."  "Yes, sir. I know that." "They had too many children, too young. So Irene and I had only one child, and Edna wasn't born until I was forty-five years old. So as soon as she's able to carry the load we'll hand it to her on a platter and step out." "Dad!" the Crown Princess exclaimed. "You know very well I'd never even think of such a thing!" And: ed. "What a nasty thing to say!" T he Emperor grinned. "If you'll analyze what I actually said you'll see that you read that wicked thought of regicide and patricide into it -- and you'll know why. Anyway, Irene, you helped plan it. And it's worked out beautifully for all of us. You've all heard the old wheeze that 'Power corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely'?" They all had. "My theory is that only the first part of that old. "Is really true. For, as a matter of fact, no human being ever had absolute power until King Stanley the Sixth crowned himself Emperor Stanley One and took it. He had the whole galaxy. Every other despot in history was always reaching for more; so the truth of that old saying was never tested. "Indeed, there is much in preStanley history that argues against its truth. The worst gangsters and the most rapacious capitalists Earth ever knew, when they got old enough and powerful enough and rich enough, turned from crime and rapacity to something that was for the good of all mankind. And the entire history of the House of Stanley bears this out." There was a short silence, then the Empress said, thoughtfully, "Well, it's something to think about, at least... and it does seem to make sense... but my dear, what has all that to do with the present case?" "Everything," Stanley said, deadly serious now. "It shows why these two d'Alemberts -- highly trained, uniquely gifted, innately and completely loyal to the Empire -- are much more important to the Empire than I am. Not that they are indispensable. No one is. But they are at present irreplaceable and I am not. Any Stanley who is able to live long enough becomes a Great Stanley by sheer force of circumstance, and Edna will be one from the day she is crowned." The Emperor turned to face Jules and Yvette. "Nevertheless, my young friends, my life is extremely important to me. It is also extremely important to Irene and to Edna, as are their lives to me. Our three lives are important to a few real friends, such as Zander there and your father the Duke; but you would be surprised to know just how scarce such real friends are. The life of any individual Emperor or Empress, however, is of very little importance to the Empire itself, of which its rulers are merely the symbols. The Empire endures only because of the loyalty to it of such people as you. Such loyalty can not be commanded; it must be earned. The Empire will endure as long as, and only as long as, it continues to be worthy of such loyalty. Without that loyalty the Empire would fall. Instead of prosperity and peace there would be widespread and terribly destructive wars of planetary conquest. Our present cilization would degenerate into barbarism and savagery. "We Stanleys do what we can; but in the last analysis the Empire rests squarely upon the arch of its various services, and your Service of the Empire is the very keystone of that arch. "As Edna said, it is a shame that we three can give you only our thanks. It is not, however the thanks of only three people. I am speaking for the Empire when I say to you and through you to those who work with you..." Emperor Stanley Ten took the d'Alemberts' right hands, one in each of his own; Complete in the April Galaxy A Rod MeBan Story by Cordwainer Smith plus stories by Philip Jose Farmer, Harry Harrison, etc. On sale now! IF IF  Novelette Fire Is Man's oldest , best servant -- and his oldest f fiercest foel I T 'he scene was eerie, as ugly as fire at night in a dwelling has always been and always will be. The searchlights of the fire department gave no feeling of comfort; rather, they added to the conflict between man and the element of fire. The dancing flames threw their yellow flickerings on the firemen as they raced back and forth arranging things, making observations, calculating how this fire was to be stopped. It was not done in silence! "Get that hose line in there!" "Get me a three-inch wye!" "Water ready." "Pumper running!" "Steady, now. Steady! Got her set?" "Right!" "Okay, give her the works!" The hose bucked as the high-pressure water hit the nozzle. It roared forth, arched toward the blaze, and crashed through a window The color of the smoke began to change immediately as the dancing flames within the house fought their losing battle. No more than minutes later, the stream of water was cut. The firemen went in to the house with hand extinguishers to kill the few remaining sparks and to quench smouldering embers. Now all there was left was the dirty clean-up job, and the task of packing the fire equipment and returning to the station. Fire Chief Mooney looked at the rookie beside him. "Still want to be a fireman?" he asked "More than ever," said the rookie, whose name was Bill Lansing "Did this one give you enough to write your thesis?" asked the chief, pointing at the ruined home with his thumb. "I'm not certain. Could be," replied Bill. "Well, if you've an idea, let me know If it's good, l can tell you to go ahead If it isn't, I can save you the trouble of trying something foolish," said Fire Chief Mooney. "Chief, the process of adding something significant to the field of fire fighting isn't very easy. On the other hand, it isn't necessary to know the answer before you can point out that a problem does exist or that there is room for improvement." "This is true; of course, if you do a thesis on those lines it will get you your appointment if it's good enough But it's not the best way, nor the surest way." "I know. But what can be added to the field of fire fighting in the year of twenty-sixteen?" "You'll have to add something or you won't be appointed." "I know l didn't mean that nothing could possibly be added, chief. What I meant is that a rookie can't very well increase the scope of knowledge. Not when experienced, dedicated men have been working to advance the science. But I can point out one rather odd area, chief ' "Go on." "Chief, do you realize that here in twenty-sixteen, we're still fighting fire in the same way that they did in the day of Julius Caesar? We pour water on it. All that's changed is our more efficient ways of delivering the water." T he fire chief smiled. "Not quite Back in the day of Julius Caesar, they had private firefighting concerns, run as a business. If you were a customer of the Mooney Fire Company and your neighbor's house caught fire, we wouldn't touch it unless he were our customer too We'd go out all right, just to keep the fire from spreading to your house, but we'd let your neighbor's house burn to the ground. And if your neighbor's fire company happened to be a bitter rival of ours, we might even start a street fight." "That's not a matter of fire fighting," objected Bill. "It's just organization." IF ,'   M-j'lf,, k! tthiMSffeft Wziiisni   ji  .' ' ; ''j wf.-Xys. I, rjaai M . I a a  I " a   a  I 'i I. # f   a !v ' V. zti  iii rT'  ' E;#.vav? rf#:. -- r!' M . m .r "Of course. But I did want you to understand that things are not exactly the same as they were a couple of thousand years ago." "Other things have changed, too," aid the rookie thoughtfully. "They used to race through the streets carrying buckets because they hadn't invented the pump. The gizmo that Archimedes invented wasn't much of a pump, sir. It was more of a water lifter. I grant that the mobile team engine, with its pump, was a vast improvement over the hand pump... which was superior to the bucket brigade. Then the gasoline engine replaced the horses and the high-pressure rotary pump was driven by the same engine when the vehicle got to the scene. But the same argument still stands, chief. For all of our modem science, we still pour water on the fire." "I can point out one other item that's changed." "Yes?" "The nature of the fireman, Bill." "Yes?" "A long time ago; in fact, it was a long long time ago, your fireman was not of an admirable, civicminded character. The work was rough and largely physical, and its nature was such that it attracted the kind of man who did not mind sitting on his duff playing checkers for days on end, waiting for the alarm to ring." "That must have been a long time ago." "It was. Then came a breed of a better cut These men held jobs and public offices, and instead of a man joining the fire department because the job was easy, a man was accepted by his local fire department in about the same way that a candidate was accepted for a lodge or a freshman to a fraternity. This was the 'beginning. Fire-fighting operations took a sudden upswing; the men took pride in their equipment and in their work. It was an honor, and they accepted it as such. They were not paid. "But the standard was set and the results were visible. And so now we have the present system of rewarding deserving citizens by appointing them to the fire department and paying them an honorarium. This makes it possible for a truly talented man to be an artist or a writer, or to study for advanced degrees, or to devote himself to civic betterment." "This much I know." "Then you also know that the mere proclamation that you propose to be a deserving citizen isn't gcrtng to make you a scholar." "I do." "And I'm also afraid that your criticism isn't going to get you very far. I doubt that merely pointing out that we're still dousing a fire with water despite our vaunted science is going to do it, Bill. The criticism may be valid, but in this case, I think someone is going to pose the question, 'If, in two thousand and more years, no one has discovered anything more efficient, isn't it just barely possible that there isn't anything more efficient?" "Thomas Edison had a slogan," said Bill. "There's a better way to do it -- Find it!" "Edison wasn't always right," objected the chief. "And he could have made a vast improvement on his slogan by starting it with the word, 'If.' IF there's a better way to do it -- Find it!" II B ill Lansing's thesis was thorough, but its scientific excellence was marred by a strong taint of emotion. His theme, that the basic improvements in fire fighting were only to deliver a larger volume of water in a shorter time, concluded by suggesting that other substances and processes were ignored simply because water was so cheap and so plentiful that it hardly paid a man to rack his brains to improve upon it. It was, he said, plain laziness. Fire Commissioner Frank T. Edwards arose at the end of Bill Lansing's treatise and asked, "I presume that you are aware of the fundamental principle of extinguishing a fire, young man?" "Of course." "Not 'Of course.' You haven't proved that you know it at all." With a labored, overly patient tone of voice, Bill Lansing replied, "Water is the total product of combustion; it can't be oxidized any further. Technically, it is the ultimate ash. As such, it smothers the blaze by keeping out the oxygen of the atmosphere. Second, the specific heat of water -- that is, the number of calories required to raise the temperature of one cubic centimeter of water by one degree centigrade -- is exceeded only by hydrogen. The on-pour of water therefore reduces the temperature of the burning stuff until the latter is below the kindling point." "Then you will grant that insofar as its smothering and cooling properties are concerned, there is nothing better?" "This I concede," smiled Bill. "Since the substance with the highest specific heat is hydrogen, second-best water indeed become firsts best." "Then what is your point?" demanded the commissioner. "If water is the best, what better can you want?" "My father," said Bill, "was a fire claim adjuster. I learned some things from him -- for example that the damage caused by water generally exceeds the damage caused by the fire, a fact for many hundreds of years." "Your father was hardly fool enough to suggest that we avoid the water damage by letting the fire run on," snapped Commissioner Edwards. "What's your point? Do you want someone to invent or discover some substance that will do a better job." "I am no chemist," said Bill. "But I do know that specific heat is not the entire answer to the problem of heat absorption. There's the heat of conversion, for example. When the one degree centigrade variation in the definition of specific heat happens to span the freezing point, the amount of heat required to thaw a gram of ice into a gram of water -- or boil water into steam is considerably higher than the specific heat -- maybe a thousand times greater." "And you propose to use this sort of thing?" "It's already in use," said Bill. "When the water hits a hot fire, the first cooling is done when the heat boils the water into steam." "And so we're right back to the same argument. We use water, just as they did in Rome, because it is the best." Lansing shook his head. "There are many substances with a higher heat of conversion." "Yes," sneered the commissioner, "and I'll bet that when you look them up, you'll find that they are corrosive as the devil, or that their fine high heat of conversion takes place either at minus two hundred, or at plus fifteen hundred. But let's abandon that for a moment. Just why are you so all-fired interested in becoming a fireman?" #CT thought we were here to evaluJ. ate my thesis," objected Lansing. "Young man, you want an appointment to the Academy of Fire Fighters. You've received your proper degrees in the humanities and the sciences, and you've produced a thesis of dubious worth. I -- " "Of dubious worth?" exploded Bill Lansing. "Yes," said the commissioner calmly. "I'd have said totally worthless if I were as sure of my facts as I am of my opinion. This is just a simple admission that I do not know all there is to know about everything. Therefore it may be possible that your thesis has a trace of merit; now drop it, and let's examine your motives." "You can't!" "Yes, I can: I have that prerogative as fire commissioner. I said 'examine,' not 'question.' If your motives are above reproach, a strong mark will be made in your favor." "All right. Go ahead." "Isn't it true that all you want is the honor and glory of having been appointed?" "The honor exists, sure. But there's more. I am ambitious. I believe that I can go far as a member of the Academy Of Fire Fighters." "And, maybe, a little ambitious for Gloria Mooney's favor?" Lansing tensed, then controlled himself and said easily, "Sir, a rather staggering proportion of all male effort is undertaken to make an impression on a girl." "All right, I grant your argument. Ambition is by no means wrong." Commissioner Edwards paused, then said to the assembly, "Gentlemen, I move that we do not accept this thesis, on the grounds that it offers nothing constructive. However, for his honesty in telling of his ambition instead of mouthing some platitude about service and civic consciousness, I move that Bill Lansing be retained as a rookie and that he be urged to attack his appointment-thesis from another angle." T TThile fire fighting was still a  matter of flooding the blaze with water as it had been for several thousands of years, the city of twenty-sixteen and its component IF parts were quite different than the city of nineteen-sixty. For example, the word "dwelling" was still used; but it did not define a single-family structure situated on a plot of vacant ground. In even the least crowded areas of the megalopolis that stretched from Boston to Washington, the dwellings were low structures, seldom more than three stories high. They were constructed with an economy of building materials by the clever process of using a single wall between the adjoining structures instead of the wastefulness of erecting separate walls for each building. In the more densely populated areas, the tight cores of the original cities, dwellings were veritable cliffs. The walls of the apartment buildings rose sheer from the edge of the sidewalk, and each rectangular city block carried its own. Above the city, there was a thin, noisy population of helicopters. And below, the only reason traffic moved at all through the streets was because only essential vehicles were permitted in the dense knots. Had the Sleeper of H. G. Wells awakened, he would have found at least two things missing from his story. First, moving sidewalks did not hurl pedestrian traffic along a series of belts running at different speeds. There were no moving sidewalks. Below the city, in the subways, there were moving cars that closed tight, bumper-to-bumper as they crawled along the station platform, then stretched out into headlong flight to the next station. It was not a case of the quick or the dead, because he who lost his footing was merely thrust aside -- or, if he fell, elbow, knee or anatomy was mildly abraded as he was moved to safety. Second, the clever little advertising gimmick of projecting names and slogans on the sidewalk couldn't be done... because the sidewalks were elbow-to-elbow, cheek-to-jowl and nose-to-spine with those people who did not take to the subways. Within the individual dwelling units, things had not changed greatly, but enough to make a difference. Wooden furniture was still present, but mostly in the form of a solid core or foundation for fabrications with a simulated wood-grain surface. Natural fabrics were not plentiful, but the synthetics were so numerous that a story was told about using an alphanumeric computer to compose fetching names for them. One thing had hardly changed at all: The people. Oh, the faces and the figures of twenty-sixteen were not those of nineteen-sixty-odd by a factor of seventy-six years. But three generations isn't enough to detect a trend in evolution. Boys, for example, still called on girls -- especially when they had come to a turning point in their careers... So Lansing said, "I failed, Gloria." "But they kept you on as a rookie, didn't they?" Bill Lansing looked gloomy. "Sure, but that's sort of like handing out praise by writing it in Sanskrit and sealing it in the cornerstone of a granite building." "I still say you've got another chance." "Gloria, how often do they have fires these days?" "Why, I don't really know." "I've been a rookie for two years. I've been to one fire. Things simply do not go Whoosh! at the touch of a spark any more." "But doesn't that give you loads of time to study?" "Sure," he replied gloomily. "But study doesn't solve the problem. I've read the detailed account of every fire in the entire megalopolis for the past fifteen years. It's not enough. Nothing gives you firsthand knowledge like being on the actual scene of a fire so you can watch them work, see how they go about it and observe the results. So where does this leave me?" "Well, outside of being disappointed, Bill, just where do you think it leaves you?" "I know where it leaves me," he said. "I'm the son of a fire claim adjuster." "Is that so bad?" "Bad enough so that your father gave me a rough time until I made the rookie grade and was on my way toward being a real fireman. Now one false step and I'll be the son of a fire claim adjuster again. And believe me, Gloria, you know as well as I do that the only thing worse than being the son of a fire claim adjuster is to be the adjuster himself." "Oh, now, it isn't that bad." "Isn't it? Does your father know I'm here?" "He didn't say anything about not seeing you, if that's what you mean." "Gloria, if you want to find out the degree of my welcome as a failed-to-make-it candidate for the Academy Of Fire Fighters, let's you and I go and announce that we're about to go dancing, or to a show, or something similar." "All right. Let's," said Gloria. Ill T hey found Gloria's father in the family recreation room watching a comedy show. Here at home there was nothing to set him off as a fireman except for the traditional red suspenders that were, like a uniform, the insignia of his position; the silver buckles indicated that he was an official of the Academy, and the four tiny shields embossed on the buckles denoted his rank as fire chief. He looked up and blinked as they entered hand in hand. A fleeting frown crossed his face, but it came and went so fast that no one, not even Bill Lansing, could be certain that the frown was not caused by the change in eye-focus from the bright viewing screen to the couple walking through the diminished light. Gloria said, "Bill and I are going dancing, dad." "Dancing?" "Yes. The gang's throwing an impromptu at the Silver Garden." "Oh. The gang." "Yes." "All right. You sounded as though you intended to go alone." Bill Lansing bristled slightly. Gloria caught it first and squeezed his hand. He subsided without sayIF mg anything, and Gloria said gently, "Why, dad, we're all big enough to be out alone. Even after dark." Fire Chief Mooney looked at them and nodded slowly. "That isn't exactly what I meant," he said. "Jim Potter said last night that he was getting an idea for his thesis that he was going to work out in model form. And he said that if he finished it, he'd be over to show it to us this evening. But if the gang is going to be at the Silver Garden, he will too. Tell him I'm quite interested in his model, Gloria. Jim has a real head on his shoulders. Like father, like son, I always say." "Yes," said Gloria simply. Gloria's father looked at Bill. "And how is your program, Bill? Got any new ideas?" "Nothing clear yet. I've a couple of ideas that need some study before they're even presentable as possible ideas." "Good. Come around any time you have something to offer." Outside, on the crowded sidewalk, they were part of the surrounded-alones that make up the population of any city. Had they stood on that same location fifty years earlier, they would have been truly alone, in the middle of a tract of land too rough for farming and not yet needed for dwelling space. Then they could have counted the dabs of sky-glow that marked the location of the larger towns hidden by the slightly rolling hills that someone had dubbed the Watchung Mountains of New Jersey. But they were not fifty years earlier. Two generations of dwelling construction had changed the face of the Earth. The first had cleared out the thin forestation and dotted the landscape with a polka-pattem of rubber-stamp houses built by the production-line process. The first crew dug for the foundation, the second crew poured it. A third removed the forms and installed them forward of the line, while the next crew began to put up stringers and studs. When they moved along, the sheathing came, the plumbers and the electricians installed their hardware, the flooring was laid and the walls were plastered, and the roof was slapped on. A coat of paint went next, followed by the real estate salesmen and their clients. And while the foremost was still digging holes for more foundations, miles behind them the sheriff was serving foreclosure notices on those whose payments were delinquent. The second generation of building pushed the Watchung Mountains around until the terrain was level, and then erected row upon row of the two and three story dwellings, laid out in a closed formation of rectangles. This was the low-density population of the central megalopolis. G loria and Bill were part of the surrounded-alones. When the density of population forces a man to breathe his neighbor's exhalation, aloofness takes the place of privacy. It becomes a studied thing to notobserve; let some outrage takeplace, and the people who stop to stare are from a distant part of the city, while the folks next door pass by with the talent of a waiter who can walk through a crowded restaurant without letting anyone catch his eye or attention. And so Gloria and Bill could talk as if they were alone, and he said, "Well, that's about it, isn't it?" "Now what do you mean by that?" "There's no gang dance tonight. And that Potter creep isn't going -- " "Now, don't you go calling Jim Potter a creep. He isn't." "I suppose he's a fine fellow with grace, charm, money, an interesting mind, sex appeal -- and has the right to wear his father's red suspenders." "Don't be bitter, Bill." "What else can I be?" he demanded. "Jim has a real head on his shoulders. Like father, like son, I always say. Come around when you have something to offer." "That isn't all, Gloria. He backwatered fast after that glum, 'You sounded as if you were going out alone,' line of his, but what is he going to say when his favorite, Jim Potter, turns up and declares there's no impromptu dance tonight? He's going to accuse the both of us of lying so that we could go out and canoodle somewhere." "Don't worry, Bill. There are ways of coping with that." "For example?" "By proving that I'm not playing favorites." "In other words, you're going out with Jim Potter." "Now you see here, Bill Lansing! I've got every right to go out with whom I choose. You have no more right to object to Jim Potter than he has a right to object to you, and neither of you has a right to object to anybody else. Now that's not only clear, but it's also logical and sensible -- " Bill put out a hand and caught her elbow, just as she was about to step off the curb to cross the street. The traffic light had flashed red, and the cross-traffic fought its way into the intersection without waiting for the last of the running traffic to clear. Bumper to bumper and curb to curb, everything came to a halt. Then came a crescendo of horns. The horns died as the intersection cleared. There was a flurry in the vehicular pattern as one driver tried to fight his way from the middle lane to make a turn; he didn't make it, but with luck, perseverance and the unlikely possibility of meeting a polite driver that would give way, he might make his turn in the next couple of blocks. "Okay," said Bill, disconsolately replying to her argument. "But right now what do we do? There's no dance at the Silver Garden." "So we'll walk there, find that it isn't open and then turn over on March Street and see if we can get tickets to Bitter Love " She hugged his arm. "It isn't a big event, but a girl can paste theater tickets in her diary, can't she?" "I guess." "So we were disappointed about being mistaken about the dance, but it worked out even better because we saw that big new hit." IF "If we can get tickets." "We'll get tickets," she promised. "They wouldn't dare refuse the daughter of Fire Chief Mooney." IV T here was a murmur of voices when Bill opened the door with Gloria's key. Gloria said, "Maybe you'd best not come in, Bill. That father of mine -- he's still up." "The other is Jim Potter. He's still here. Look," he said hoarsely. "I'm not going to leave with Jim Potter in the house waiting to get you alone!" The hallway door before them opened to display Fire Chief Mooney, with Jim Potter in the background. Gloria's father used the voice that he'd found helpful in making himself heard over the crackle of open flames, the shouts of hardworking firemen, and the roar of newly-arriving fire equipment: "And how was the dance at the club that's closed? Find the floor crowded? So just what have you been doing, you two?" Gloria replied, "Now father, don't take that tone -- " "I'll take any tone I want to in my own home! What have you two been up to?" "We got tickets to Bitter Love , playing at theOrpheum," said Bill, waving the ticket stubs. "Did you stay to watch the show, or are you using the tickets as an alibi?" demanded Gloria's father. "Now, sir, that's no way to talk. Don't you trust your daughter?" "Yes, I trust her, you young schemer. But I don't trust you not to make a fool of her." "But I -- " "You, Lansing, might have spent your time better if you'd honestly tried to advance the science of fire fighting instead of thinking of clever schemes to marry into it. Hah! you yell about water, and how things haven't changed for two thousand years. Well, while you were carping about water and lack of progress, Jim Potter was thinking . His idea will get him appointed cum laude, possibly summa , and maybe even magna ." "But, sir -- " "Lansing, I think you are a thrillseeker. While you were complaining about lack of progress, and wailing that you couldn't really study a fire and the methods we use without really watching one, Jim Potter did what you couldn't do. He has made a very sensible plan." "Congratulations," said Lansing in a flat tone. "And may I ask what it is?" "I'm proud to be the one to tell you," said Fire Chief Mooney. "Assume you are called to a fire in a dwelling, Lansing. It is yours to fight, to plan against, to lay out your campaign to extinguish the blaze in the shortest time with the minimum damage. Understand?" "That is the job of the fire boss, the ranking official present." "Pre-cisely! Now, Lansing, suppose that you could make an instantaneous determination of the amount and placement of all flammable material in the dwelling, the chemistry and physical characteristics of these IF burnables, and the possible interaction between the various products of combustion." "That would be a help," Lansing said thoughtfully. "It would be as great a help to us as it helps a general who knows the strength and deployment of the entire enemy force against him." "Exactly! Well, Lansing, young Jim Potter proposes that every citicitizen post a layout of his dwelling, and the contents, and the material of which the articles are made! This information will go into a rapid crossaccess file, so that the full information will be available as soon as the fire alarm delivers the identification of the dwelling." B ill Lansing shook his head slowly. "I suppose you'd want penalties for falsification of the records?" "Naturally. False information might be quite deadly." "And sooner or later you'd issue licenses to purchase furniture and household goods to make certain that your records were accurate?" "Now that's the first good suggestion that I have ever heard you make, Lansing. Jim," he said to Potter, "I know you'll give full credit for this suggestion when you present your thesis." "Most certainly, sir," said Potter, scribbling. Lansing raised his hands. "Chief Mooney, sir?" "Now what, Lansing?" "Before you continue along this line of reasoning, I think you had better consult an attorney for advice." "Why? "Because I believe that any such requirement is a violation of the citizen's right to be free of unwarranted search. At any rate it is a violation of his privacy." "It's for his own protection, confound it!" Mooney shook his head violently. "What do you know about law?" "Very little. That's why I suggested that you consult someone who does. I think your plan would require a Constitutional amendment, a Supreme Court ruling, and a special department formed to enforce the requirements. It's a grand, blue-sky scheme, and totally impractical." "Lansing, have you ever heard of the N.I.H. Attitude?" "No, sir. What does N. I. H. stand for?" " 'Not Invented Here.' It refers to those people who go nit-picking and raising objections to anything they did not think of themselves. I withdraw my congratulations for your excellent suggestion because, it seems, it was meant as sarcasm. But to show you that we, at least, do not have the N. I. H. Attitude, we'll still use your suggestion. It's a good one -- regardless of its intent." "It won't work," said Lansing doggedly. "You'll hear a yell about 'Police State' go up so loud that no one will touch the idea." "Now, don't accuse me of advocating anything anti-democratic." "I didn't." "Yes, you did! And if you and your kind would only offer positive suggestions instead of throwing stumbling blocks in the way of progress, we would all be better off. You think fast enough when you're objecting to someone else's idea, or when you're scheming a plot to squirrel my daughter out from under my eyes. Why don't you bend that fine brain to something constructive?" "Mr. Mooney, I -- " "Lansing, you're nothing but an inept social climber who is playing in the wrong league. Why don't you leave quietly, you son of a fire claim adjuster?" "Now see here -- " "You see here, Lansing. Get out!" "Father, Bill Lansing is my guest, and I -- " "You go to your room and stay there, young missy! Bill Lansing was your guest, past tense. No progress, just water? Well, fathers have been pouring cold water over hot romances for a couple of thousand years, too. So get!" B ill Lansing's return to his station was a doleful journey. It was late at night; or more accurately, it was very early in the morning. Crammed in and jostling were the night people of the city. Some were tired, some were bored. Not a few were dozing in their subway seats. There were many couples engrossed with their own business to the point where they cared little for their surroundings. But if there was one who could be as unhappy and frustrated with helpless rage and utter futility as Bill Lansing, it could not be known. For Lansing had no one to tell, no sympathetic ear to listen. But if Bill Lansing thought that he had been kicked as low as any man could be kicked, he found that he had one more bitter blow awaiting him at the station. He was hailed just inside of the door by Fire Commissioner Edwards. "Lansing, I have a complaint against you." "A complaint, sir?" "Yes. Did you, or did you not imply that you were taking Gloria Lansing to a dance that in reality was non-existent?" Lansing gulped. It was a loaded question. In reality, the plan had simply been to test Fire Chief Mooney's reaction to Gloria going out on a late date with her. It had been Gloria's spur-of-the-moment picking, not his, that chose the dance. Bill could no more tell the commmissioner that they were testing Mooney's reaction than he could permit himself to place the blame on Gloria. Neither was the act of a gentleman and a fire fighter; furthermore, he was at fault anyway because the code of the fire fighter demanded that he correct any erroneous impression that Gloria might have given. But Bill Lansing had no doubt at all that the commissioner knew the entire story as close as Mooney could repeat it. For the commissioner's word had been "imply" and that meant that Gloria's statement had been undersigned; or in this case, underspoken, by Lansing. "Yes," he said. "This has been an unfortunate experience for all of us, Lansing. I hope it's over. You know the penalty IF of the Academy of Fire Fighters for permitting an implied untruth to stand." "Yes." "While you are relieved of all duty and responsibility, you may not leave your station until the Board of Fire Regents accepts your resignation officially." "And if there is a fire in the interim, sir?" "While every hand is needed at a fire, Lansing, our code is our protection. It is clear. No one who has not the full confidence of the Academy of Fire Fighters may have the honor of joining us in our chosen profession." "But, sir -- " The commissioner eyed Lansing coldly and in a sepulchral intonation, he said, "You have been weighed in the balance and found wanting." It was the traditional phrase of cold dismissal from the Academy. The phrase was, indeed, a translation of the Handwriting on the Wall. V   but eat, sleep and kill the waking hours, because those that surround you will not speak nor admit they heard you, time hangs heavy indeed. It is worse when your cell can not be left. It is even worse than that when you, and they, and everybody knows that the process of separating you from your tomb could be expedited in ten minutes if anybody gave a tinkle. But the Academy of Fire Fighters was thoroughly finished with Mr. Bill Lansing; so completely finished with him that its members wouldn't lift a finger to get rid of him. To them, he had ceased to exist. To place action before the treadmill brought his card to the top was to recognize that such a person had rights. And it might have gone that way, right on out until Bill Lansing's life turned a corner and became part of another world of activity. But a new world was not to be for Bill Lansing. Clotho, the Fate that weaves the lives of men, discovered the bowline, the knot that makes the closed loop which will not slip, and this she tied into her web. Call it fate. Call it coincidence. Call it anything you care to; but accept, even though reluctantly, the fire that flared up in the cellar of Fire Chief Mooney's home at one o'clock in the morning. The alarm clangored through the station, alerting the firemen, the rookies and the nearly-ex-rookie Bill Lansing. Next came the stentorian voice: "Now hear this! The address is one seven nine, three nine six four Rushman Avenue in the Watchung area near the metropolitan shopping area of Mountainside. The weather is clear. Temperature seventy-one, humidity fifty-three, wind from the southwest at ten. The time is one zero seven hours." Near him, Lansing heard someone mutter, "And the New York theater crowd will just be getting home, too!" In answer, the fire sub-chief said, "Right, Al. Look, you and Pete are temporarily detached. Get out there right now and plant traffic stoppers. Go now; we'll bring your fire gear in the equipment wagon." "Right, chief. But won't that leave you short-handed?" "We'll make out." Lansing said, "I volunteer." For the first time in three weeks, Lansing got a reply. "We don't accept outsiders," was the cold response. "Might as well use me," said Lansing. "I'm going anyway." "Not in any fire wagon this station uses!" From the roof of the station came the rising drone of a siren. It went up and up into a scream, undulated between shrill and ear-splitting, and then began to slide down the scale as the motor coasted to its well-balanced and near-frictionless stop. A banging scatter of cold motors came next; they settled down into a muted, vibrant roar. top him from going they could, but stop him from watching them leave they could not. He followed them to the equipment, then stood on the edge of the roof, leaning into the blast of the big choppers of the heavy equipment. They wasted no time clawing for altitude. Instead, they lurched forward off the roof and arrowed straight across the . city, no more than a hundred feet above the forest of television antennas that reached up for them. spectacle, but once it was over, all that Lansing could do was to go back below and wait. This was a world that had rejected him. A world that he was not permitted to join. He sprawled on his narrow bunk and listened to the radio. It was acknowledgements, and direction data and other information. To anyone not used to the patter, it would have been a hopeless mess of gabble. But to the ex-rookie, it was part of his nostalgia. He had the knowledge and the skill to build a radio receiver for this frequency (they could not be purchased) but once away from this station he would sever all ties. To maintain even the least of them would be more hurtful than not. One thing he could not envision was the spectacle of the Mooney dwelling in flame. That was a murky, flickering thing. But the approach of the sub-chiefs hopper he could follow without difficulty, for he knew that it would dip and circle the fire; the sub-chief would be collecting preliminary information so that he could plan his counter-attack. Then the radio became more orderly: "Redman, get the pyrometer over here." "Right, chief." "Harrington, get one of your spectographs aimed at that picture window in front. Put the second looking about ten feet above that tiled roof over on the side, and the third in the back. High, I'd say." "Right." hosewagon?" Bill Lansing grinned. The fire radio band was speech-scrambled within weeks after it had first been used. Language that would offend IF the delicate ear was denied to that ear because the government realized that it was easier to conceal the bad language of men working under danger and stress than it was to train them to use, "Oh my goodness!" as a verbal indication of dismay. The sub-chief got his reply: "Layin' hose, chief!" sake?" "The Bound Brook Reservoir." "What the XXll's the matter with the standpipes?" "They ain't been used in seven years, chief. Besides, we've got time to run a clear line before swooshsecond, and it's better that way." "Okay. Now -- " "Who's in charge here?" This was a new voice. "I am. Sub-Chief Walter Lang. From the Newark district station." "Where is Fire Chief Mooney?" "We haven't been able to contact him." "Commissioner Edwards?" "Probably on his way. And who are you -- sir?" "Sub-Secretary of Public Safety, James Moriarity. You mean that neither Mooney nor Edwards aro present?" "No, sir. I -- " "I'm here, X# X## it," came the unmistakable voice of Fire Chief Mooney. "And get me out!" "Trapped?" "Second floor rear." "How long can you hold out?" "Not too long. It's hot and it stinks of blowup." "Do you want to take cognizance, chief?" asked Lang. "From within?" The sound of was unmistakable. "Well, someone has got to give the orders." Lang turned to Moriarty. "Shall we go in and get him, sir?" "How do you figure the fire, Mr. Lang?" "One mo. Redman, what do the pyros say?" "Hotspots running up to three hundred, bits and flares to fivefifty. Average is reasonable but going up." "Harrigan, what does spectre say?" "The usual clutch of standard volatiles. You know. Polyesters, acrylics, acetates, eurenthanes, plus a mixture of ordinary smokes, wood distillates and monoxides." "How bad?" "The mixture is deadly in concentration, you know. Right now it will give a man an awful headache if he breathes it very long -- say a half hour or more. But the temperatures recorded by Redman say that the mix isn't to the whoosh point yet." "Then I can't take the emergency chance nor justify it," said Moriarity. "Where's your fire claim adjuster?" "He hasn't shown yet. He should have been here." "My God! Is there anyone who can work pro tern?" "Of course not. There never is when they're needed." M ooney's voice broke in, "Is Gloria safe?" "Isn't she with you?" #f "No. She has her own apartment on the top floor of this building." "Front or rear?" "Front." "And your wife?" "With me. But about Gloria -- T "Redman! Top floor front?" "About the same as below, maybe a bit cooler in the hot spots. Less total variation." "Harrigan?" "Rough, chief. The whole, standard list of hot, flammable volatiles are thick, plus traces of phosgene, hydrogen chloride and some nitrides. By comparison, Gloria's folks are breathing pure mountain air." "That's an emergency, chief! Can we go in?" "General call! Isn't there anybody who can certify this spot as an emergency? Anybody?" Bill Lansing could stand it no more. He got up from his bunk and snapped the press-to-talk switch on his radio. He said, "Sub-Secretary Moriarity from Bill Lansing. I am an ex-rookie fireman and therefore disqualified to talk, act, or participate on that basis. However, I am also the son of James Lansing, a journeyman and fellow of the College of Fire Claim Underwriters, through whom I was granted my certificate of competence in fire evaluation." "How fast can you get here?" "A matter of minutes if I can commandeer the hopper on the roof." Mooney's voice broke in, "Make him a # # present of it, but get us the # out of here!" Lansing headed for the roof on a dead run. Meanwhile, a new voice came in, thin and wavering, on the edge of radio contact. "Am I within range yet? Do you hear me? This is Commissioner Edwards. Respond, please, over and out." "We hear you now, Commissioner. Go ahead." "How does it stand?" "It apparently started below, point and cause of origin unknown. The dwelling is a special,, belonging to Fire Chief Mooney. You know the place, Commissioner." "Yes. Well, the elder Mooney dwelling, I do. But then daughter has a separate on the third floor that I haven't been in." "And the fire conditions?" 'Top-floor apartment, front side, isn't as separate as if the place were truly unconnected. Therefore a lot of the volatile stuff has been seeping up through the stair wells and halls. It's been collecting in Gloria's apartment." "Any sign of the girl?" "None. Harrigan?" "No trace of animal charcoal nor hydrocarbon vapor. She may be suffocated but she isn't burned." "Stop talking like that," yelled Mooney. "Get me out of here and I'll go up there myself!" "Is that an order, chief?" "Yes, # # it!" Moriarity said, "Commissioner, the only fire claim adjuster on the spot is ex-rookie Lansing. You know him?" "Yes, I know him," said Commissioner Edwards wearily. "Lansing? Will you authorize a breach of Mooney's section?" IF "Does Fire Chief Mooney wave his insurance?" "Now, see here! This is no time to -- " "If you're going to accuse me of vindictiveness, don't. Spectro and pyro give the Mooneys a good fiftyfive minutes before the whoosh point and threaten them with no more than a headache. I'm mindful of their lives and of their comfort, but I have the property to protect. Furthermore, the real danger is to the girl in the top floor front." "Shall we go in there?" "Without seeing it, I shouldn't grant permission. But the reports say -- yes, go in. Use the clear-out, grab and re-containment process, but be fast." "Pyro, what's the draft-coefficient?" "Fairly slow. But once that roof is open, you'll have a furnace condition in the whole place in a matter of minutes. All it takes is one tongue of flame to lick through a firebreak and -- " "Yes, yes, we know. Sky crew? Go in!" VI I ausing's hopper crossed the ring of billowing red flares that barred all surface traffic from entering the area. Then he saw the stricken dwelling. Fire apparatus hung in the sky on their helicopter blades, hovering about the scene. As for the fire itself, there was not much to see to indicate how dangerous it was. Only a flicker and a flash of yellow flame showed at the windows. And, of course, the inevitable group of civilians huddled together in night clothing; the the dwellers on either side and to the back of the Mooney place that fronted on the next street. As Lansing approached, the sky crew went into action. The first 'copter lowered carefully down onto the flat roof. On the bottom a sixfoot, circular object began to rotate -- the well-known but seldom seen sawing circle. When the cylindrical saw-teeth hit the material of the roof, the crunching noise could be heard above the racket of the many engines. It ground and it sawed, and the backlash from its effort made the pilot fight his stick to maintain hoverage. Then with a final crash, three things happened in so close a serial order that they appeared to have taken place at once. A slow-motion picture would have shown first that the thrust of the sawing circle and its helicopter drove the equipment down when the final resistance ceased; second that the pilot fought the thrust deftly by revving the engine and throwing the bite of the rotor blades to full life; and third that when the plug of the roof was lifted free, the gout of hot volatiles belched forth to carry the helicopter high and precariously pitching in the turbulence. "Where's the sky hook?" "Coming in, with hot papa in the iron claw." "Ready with the flush tank?" "Ready!" 'Toss it!" From one of the helicopters, a small glistening object arched out. With computer-accuracy it curved through the air to plunge into the newly made opening in the roof. There was no sound, but all at once the final billow of dirty smoke gushed forth and there was no more. "Snappy, now!" Hot papa, in his glistening firereflecting suit, was lowered through the opening. The iron claw line went slack; the pilot of the helicopter hovered and fought his stick, for despite flushing the smoke out of the apartment with a tank of clear helium, the air above the scene was turbulent. Indeed, the helium did no more than to provide visibility. It was non-poisonous, but just as deadly for the human lungs. "Got baby!" came the cry. The iron claw line went taught again. "How is she?" "Alive and wrapped in baby's bunting, double-folded with cold feet." "All right! No re-contain!" T he sawing circle lowered again, hovered, turned and fitted the roof-plug back in place. Some battens were slapped over the circular cut and then there came a rapid-fire series of sharp detonations as anchor-fasteners were driven home with cartridge guns. The sawing circle .rose, followed by the first of a thin trickle of smoke that began to seep through the cut. Mooney asked, "My daughter?" Someone replied, "She's being treated for smoke and vapor inhalation, some poisoning and a mild anoxia. No burns." "Thanks. "Now let's take care of the Mooneys," said Commissioner Edwards. "Shall we go in?" "Lansing?" asked Edwards. "Look," interjected Mooney, "if pyro and spectro say we're in no imminent danger, we'll play it by the rules." "Yes, but as fire chief you should be here. Lansing?" "Mr. Commisioner, will the Academy of Fire Fighters undertake Fire Chief Mooney's insurance? I can't underwrite it and accept the additional losses just to place him in his rightful command." "Now I think you are being vindictive." "Put yourself in my shoes, Commissioner, and take a look from a long way outside. If I go in too soon, someone is going to accuse me of trying to curry favor with the very obvious combination of fire chief and father of the girl I love. Aren't they?" "You'll find, young Mister Lansing, that no matter what you do, someone will criticize." "Then the best way is to do what I think right, isn't it?" "Urn -- " "All right! Now get off the air, Commissioner, and let your data gang go to work." Sub-Chief Walter Lang took over. "Data gang?" "Pyro here," said Redman. "General room ambient is about foursixteen, with hot spots to sevenfifty." "Spectro," said Harrigan, "nothIF mg new to report. The same crosssection of gases from burning or decomposed plastic fabrics, artificial leathers and so forth." "All right, plug your data directly into the computer." The voices on the fire-radio band ceased. In their place there came a tuneless, and apparently patternless, mixture of short pulses in many frequencies from low to high pitch. It was digital data covering the composition of the flammable gases within the confined dwelling, the temperatures found at a number of places within each room and the rate at which each factor was changing. From the computer there spilled lengths of tape, carrying their own computer code in punched holes. These would be used for analysis later; the information they contained was already used and coded by the computer. From the collectable evidence, estimates and a computer-grade reconstruction was made of the conditions that existed in parts of the dwelling that could not be seen from the outside. W ithin minutes, the information was complete and the counter-attack planned with computer-accuracy. "Can we get the Mooneys, Lansing? Haven't you stalled long enough? What'll happen if we open that lower bedroom now?" "The computer says it is a little early," said Bill Lansing. "And the book says that it's frequently better to let it burn a bit longer and tend to smother itself. We've come a long way from the day when the first act was to chop a hole in the roof to vent the explosive gases. Now we can afford to wait until they get threatening before starting the inevitable Fire-draft up through the house. But my experience," he went on, "isn't extensive enough to furnish a considered opinion, other than to believe that there is a reasonable period during which only a computer could tell the difference. So I'll say go in and get them." "Thanks," said Commissioner Edwards. "Mooney? We're coming in!" "I hear you. We're ready." There was a quick roar of engines as the twin rotors of the flying bridge fired up. The flying bridge, parked in the street and poised for the operation, took no spare time in rising to window height and plunging forward to thrust its covered outrigger through the bedroom window behind which the Mooneys were waiting. Smoke burst forth around the bridge, and a gout of flame followed as the hot volatiles belched forth, rose and created an out-draft. The fire fighter in the hot papa suit aboard the flying bridge did not make it all the way to the end of the covered runway. The Mooneys, she first and he second, were already aboard and running toward the body of the vehicle. "Baby's aboard," yelled hot papa , "and cryin' for cool air!" The flying bridge backed, turned and dropped to the street. Fire Chief Mooney came out of the exit door, steadying his wife by a hand at her elbow. Commissioner Edwards said, "Want to take over?" Mooney shook his head. "No. The headache they promised me is here, all right It's a pip. I couldn't think straight." "You better get some treament, chief." "After this thing is out. Let Lang go on. He's done a fine job so far." Walter Lang said, "Thanks chief." Then he asked, "Lansing? When is whoosh second?" Lansing looked at the last tape from the computer. "We've still a large margin of safety before it goes whoosh," said Lansing. "But I don't think we'll gain much by waiting, especially now that the bedroom window is gone. Hit it when you're ready, Lang." Then with the precision of computer programming. Pumper One hurled # liters of water through the smashed bedroom window; Pumper Two delivered # liters through a second floor window; and a hose line rigged to the sawing circle dropped # liters through the re-opened hole in the roof. The smoke billowed briefly through the shattered windows; then made its characteristic change from dirty brown to the steamy white that comes when water fights fire. There was only one re-burst. Just as the mop-up squad was about to enter with their absorbent machines, a flare was seen in the living room. Pumper Two responded with an additional # liters, a quantity determined by human estimate and not by the computer. As a result the mop-up squad found puddles on the floor when they entered ten minutes later to finish off the job. V oices died around the table as Fire Commissioner Edwards arose; there was one tiny clink as one of the Board of Regents put down his coffee cup. The Regents of the Academy of Fire Fighters were present in their full red-suspendered regalia. But they were all uncomfortably aware of the stranger in their midst. For he, too, was in full regalia. There was the shiny blue-serge suit and the hard white hat of the fireclaim adjuster, and he carried the small, leather-covered attache case that contained the decimal computer used during on-the-spot estimates of fire, smoke and water damage. Commissioner Edwards said, "I am in the very uncomfortable position of having to offer an honor upon a man who has already received what he may well believe to be a higher one. In retrospect, I regret that Mr. Lansing did not make a material contribution to the science of fire fighting. He did not invent some new process of extinguishing the blaze or eliminating the smoke, nor did he discover some fabulous new chemical that would kill the fleas without drowning the dog. In fact, Mr. Lansing did not even prove his own contention that fire fighting was unchanged from the day when our remote ancestors discovered that water was the master of fire, provided you poured enough of it on the blaze." "Indeed, gentlemen, I can only IF apologize for being Impatient. I take the responsibility for having urged the premature action that required a second charge of water, hastily estimated instead of carefully computed, to be hurled into the Mooney dwelling. "But in the act of acquiescing to our premature pleas, Mr. Bill Lansing, recently appointed Adjuster First Class, and a member of the College of Fire Claim Adjusters, revealed a part of his human nature seldom displayed by other members of his college. Humanely and humanly, Mr. Lansing understood that our natural enemy is Fire, to be killed at all cost and at once. "And to continue this understanding and to hope that it becomes mutual, I am conferring upon him the highest office that a non-member can hold, the unglorious, undignified, unrewarding post of Associate Member. By appointment." "And I," added Fire Chief Mooney, "find myself appointing him to the post of son-in-law, first class. By marriage." To his bride-to-be, Bill Lansing whispered, "I still say there's a better way to do it." "Than marriage?" "No. A better way to put out a fire." "There is," she chuckled. "And I'll show you the way after the E featuring the finest stories by the all-time greatest writers in the E s field of science fiction! E E In the big July issue -- by A. E. Van Vogt E by Robert A. Heinlein E  Coming soon -- E by E. E. Smith , Ph.D. E E and other Retief stories by Keith Laumer E All your favorites will be in the new monthly IF! Watch for it on your newsstand -- or subscribe now! E IF  Short Story They expected to hear a revelation . They didn't expect -- what they goti I n the semidarkness of the classroom the collection of intellectuals mulled over the possible reasons for their having been called together. They had come because Schuffman was their acknowledged master and because he was an old man, near death. They knew he was a tyrant and, at times, a crackpot. But no one could deny the man's genius with figures. As the professor entered the classroom, his colleagues gave him a respectful, if not enthusiastic, round of applause. Schuffman walked stiffly to the front of the room and stepped upon the raised platform. Behind him was a black velvet curtain that concealed a blackboard. "Gentlemen, please be seated." The professor was smiling. The thick lenses of his glasses made his eyes appear huge. "You are wondering why you have been called together?" Schuffman looked at the thirtyseven men before him. They sat behind grade-school desks and made notations in loose leaf binders. With their features blurred by cigarette smoke and the lack of light in the room they looked for all the world like a class of aged fifth graders. The old man smiled his all but toothless smile, raised his right hand and moved his right foot forward. Having assumed his favorite theatrical pose he said, quite slowly, "The unknowns no longer exist." A profound silence descended. Men in their forties looked in bewilderment at men in their eighties, who candidly returned their glances. "We have always assumed, rather blindly, that galaxies are unique units. Well, they most certainly are not. They are only as unique as is one physical entity unique from another. It is a separation of mass and of mass only." As Schuffman continued the room seemed to darken, almost imperceptibly. Only his face and the black velvet curtain behind him remained illuminated. "I have discovered the relationship between these sets or masses. There is a pattern. A key." The scientists squirmed in their seats. They felt vaguely that they should be astounded. They did not yet understand why. "What is the importance of this deduction? Gentlemen, think. The person who could describe the workings of the universe in a single mathematical formula would be a god. He would be all-knowing. When will life arise on a certain planet? When will life on a given mass destroy itself? What kinds of life may evolve, given certain conditions? These questions that made mockeries of our pitiful intellects, these questions would be child's play for the person who possessed the equation of the universe." The tension in the room was almost unbearable. Thirty-seven men held their breath. "In brief, gentlemen, I have the equation of the universel" S o saying, Schuffman pulled the velvet curtain back and revealed a series of figures that had been almost carelessly scribbled on the blackboard. "Look at it. Look at it, gentlemen!" The professor's voice had become louder and higher in pitch. "The universe depends for its very existence on this equation!" There was no sound in the room except Schuffman's voice and the labored breathing of some of the elder members of his audience. One or two of them prayed silently. The professor was no doubt exaggerating. Yet... "Look at it, you damned fools! You laughed at Schuffman before. No more! Now you will kneel down and ask favors like little children. I am like God. I am God -- and you are all damned idiots!" Thirty-seven pairs of fists were clenched and white-knuckled. Thirtyseven pairs of eyes strained at the equation. Thirty-seven foreheads became damp with perspiration. Suddenly, from the back of the room, came a clear, well modulated baritone voice. "The equation is wrong, professor." All heads turned to see who had questioned Schuffman. It was a young man, in his early thirties. Several of the scientists thought they recognized him. He stood perfectly erect and stared at the professor. "Who are you? How did you get in here?" "That is of little importance." "Well, however you came in, you will do me the kindness of leaving by the same..." "Schuffman." The young man's voice shook the room. It had a strange and fascinating depth to it. "Look at the seventh derivative of your equation. You have made an error that a careful high-school student could have avoided. The equation is impressive -- but it is invalid." An audible sigh went up from the thirty-seven men as they took note of the error. Someone laughed, "If the universe depends on that equation for its existence, none of us exist!" N ow everyone was laughing. The sound of so much mirth dinned in Schuffman's ears. The young man's voice was all he could distinguish in the jumble of sound: "Erase the equation!" Schuffman knew he was wrong. He picked up an eraser and slammed it against the blackboard. The thirtyseven men were taunting him, "Nothing exists... the equation is wrong... nobody here but us chickens!" they howled. The old man began to erase the blackboard with quick, agitated strokes. "Damn you, sir!" he screamed at the young man. As Professor Schuffman's eraser ran over and obliterated the last symbol of his equation, the universe disappeared. In the void, the young man sighed and wondered what to call the eighth day. A race that neither feared nor hated mankind -- but violated humanity's deepest, unspoken taboosl An astonishing complete short novel , sure to be discussed and remembered as a classicl by Brian W. Aldiss (author of The Long Afternoon of Earth, etc.) You're missing some of the finest science-fiction stories hi print today if you've been missing Worlds of Tomorrow. The memorable April issue, containing The Dark Light-Years and much more. It still on sale -- get your copy today! IF IF  Complete Short Novel The Store Of Heart's Desire Anything your heart desired was here -- wealth -- power -- hatred -- love -- even deathl I T he animal-derived underpeople talked about it for hundreds of years thereafter. The story became a part of their legend, their balladry. Real people, walking innocently around on the surface of the Earth, some kilometers above, never heard anything about it. To most of them, downdeep-downdeep was a place where robots and underpeople worked to provide the luxuries, comforts and pleasures of mankind. They knew nothing of the mysterious Aitch Eye or of its weird leader, the E-telekeli, and if they bad known, they would have been very surprised to find out that a true man had penetrated the uttermost depths and had conferred with the Aitch Eye itself. Very surprised. But not interested. Why should they care? Curiosity had died out a long time ago and the attempted Rediscovery of Man was awakening it only very slowly. A few officials knew or suspected the whole story, but then officials never talked much. Only the underpeople cared and they were startled indeed. A true man in downdeep-downdeep? How had that happened? What could have gone wrong? Nothing went wrong. C'mell took him, and took him at the bidding of the E-telekeli himself. He was an offworlder. He had the odd pompous name of Roderick MacArthur McBan the hundred and fifty-first and he was the richest sheep-owner from the richest planet in the galaxy, Old North Australia, which most people just called Norstrilia. He had gambled wildly, grotesquely, with help from his family's old computer, and he had won the largest fortune in the known or suspected universe. With this, he had bought Earth. The name didn't mean much. He was no crabbed financier, no empire-builder in civilian clothes. He was a boy, blond, tall, athletic. His shortname was Rod McBan. Though he was a mister and owner and a full-franchise landholder in Norstrilia, he had been driven to adventure by mischance; he had not sought it for lust of power. He didn't even go to downdeepdowndeep in true-man form. The traps would have killed him if he had. He had gone down disguised as a cat-man. T he cat-man disguise was not for the sake of downdeep; it was to keep him alive while all the thieves in space and Earth were looking for him. He had escaped death from the weapons of an old enemy, the Hon. Sec. in Norstrilia; he had bought Earth; he had abandoned his cousin-sweetheart Lavinia on Norstrilia, at the urgent insistence of his own government, and he had arrived on Earth in a catbody as the unwelcome but honored guest of the Instrumentality. The Instrumentality, which always ruled and never reigned, had even provided him the undergirl C'mell as his consort and escort for his time on Earth; and C'mell was the most most enticing of the girlygirls of Earth. Knowing C'mell had been adventure incarnate. She had led him to things which he had not even imagined, including a knowledge of himself and of others. He had been places in the wet rich air of Earth, on the old streets and the complex cities, which no Norstrilian at home would ever believe; he had faced dangers, and now Rod knew that his time was drawing to a close. At IF last she was asking something of him and he could not refuse. All the time he had known her -- days which seemed as long and busy as years -- she had been giving: of herself, her time, the risk of her life. Now, for the first time, it was she who asked. He could not refuse. He went with her down to a store. A commissary, run by a wonderful person called the Catmaster. Five hundred years old, and still allowed to live, and still allowed to run his store. It was called the Department Store of Hearts' Desires. n Hphe trip was a vivid, quick dream. They had only a few hundred meters to fall before they reached ground level. They came out on the peoplestreet. A robot policeman watched them from a corner. Human beings in the costumes of a hundred historical periods were walking around in the warm, wet air of Earth. Rod could not smell as much salt in the air as he had smelled at the top of the tower, but down here in the city it smelled of more people than he had ever even imagined in one place. Thousands of individuals, hundreds and thousands of different kinds of foods, the odors of robots, of underpeople and of other things which seemed to be unmodified animals. "This is the most interesting-smelling place I have ever been," said he to C'mell. She glanced at him idly. "That's nice. You can smell like a dog-man. Most of the real people I have known couldn't smell their own feet. Come on though, C'roderick -- re member who you are! If we're not tagged and licensed for the surface, we'll get stopped by that policeman in one minute or less." She carried E-ikasus and steered Rod with a pressure on his elbow. They came to a ramp which led to an underground passage, well illuminated. Machines, robots and underpeople were hurrying back and forth along it, busy with the commerce of Earth. Rod would have been completely lost if he had been without C'mell. Though his miraculous broad-band hiering, which had so often surprised him and pleased him at home, had not returned during his few hours on Old Earth, his other senses gave him a suffocating awareness of the huge number of people around him and above him. (He never realized that there were times, long gone, when the cities of Earth had populations which reached the tens thousand people, and a comparable number of underpeople, was a crowd almost beyond measure.) The sounds and smells of underpeople were subtly different from those of people; some of the machines of Earth were bigger and older than anything which he had previously imagined; and above all, the circulation of water in immense gallons, for the multiple purposes of Earthport -- sanitation, coolIF ing, drinking, industrial purposes -- made him feel that he was not among a few buildings, which he would have called a city in Old North Australia, but that he himself had become a blood-cell thrusting through the circulatory system of some enormous composite animal, the nature of which he imperfectly understood. This city was alive with a sticky, wet, complicated aliveness Which he had hitherto not even imagined to be possible. Movement characterized it. He suspected that the movement went on by night and day, that there was no real cessation to it, that the great pumps thrust water through feeder pipes and drains whether people were awake or not. that the brains of this organization could be no one place, but had to comprise many subbrains, each committed and responsible for its particular tasks. No wonder underpeople were needed! It would be boredom and pain, even with perfected automation, to have enough human supervisors to reconnect the various systems if they had breakdowns inside themselves or at their interconnections. Old North Australia had vitalitv. But it was the vitality of open fields, few people, immense wealth, and perpetual military danger. This was the vitality of the cesspool or the compost heap, blit the rotting, blooming components were not waste material, but human beings and near-human beings. No wonder that his forefathers had fled the cities as they had been. They must have been solid plague to free men. And even Old Original Australia, somewhere here on Earth, had lost its openness and freedom in order to become the single giant city-complex of Nanbien. It must, Rod thought with horror, have been a thousand times the size of this city of Earthport. (He was wrong, because it reached three hundred thousand times the size of Earthport before it died. Earthport had only about two hundred thousand permanent residents when Rod visited it, with an additional number walking in from the nearer suburbs, the outer suburbs still being ruined and abandoned. But Australia -- under the name of Aojou Nanbien -- had reached a population of thirty billion before it died, and before the Wild Ones and the Menschenjager vivors.) R od was bewildered, but C'mell was not. She put A'gentur down, over his whined monkey-like side them. With the impudent knowledgeability of a true city girl, she led them to a cross-walk from which a continuous whistling roar came forth. By writing, by picture, and by loudspeaker, the warning system repeated up E-ikasus A'gentur, grabbed Rod by the arm, and jumped with them on a series of rapidly-moving airborne platforms. Rod, startled by the suddenness in which they had found the trackway, shouted to ask what it was: "Freight? What's that?" Things, Boxes. Food. This is the Central trackway. No sense in walking six kilometers when we can get this. Be ready to jump off with me when I give you the sign!" Tt feels dangerous," he said. "It isn't," said she, "not if you're a cat." With this somewhat equivocal reassurance, she let them ride. A'gentur could not care less. He cuddled his head against her shoulder, wrapped his long gibbon-like arms around her upper arm and went soundly to sleep. C'mell nodded at Rod. "Soon now!" she called, judging their distance by landmarks which he found meaningless. The landing points had flat, concrete-lined areas where the individual flat cars, rushing along on their river of air, could be shunted suddenly to the side for loading or unloading. Each of these loading areas had a number, but Rod had not even noticed at what point they had gotten on. The smells of the underground city changed so much as they moved from one district to another that he was more interested in odors than in the numbers on the platforms. She pinched his upper arm very sharply as a sign that he should get ready. They jumped. He staggered across the platform until he caught himself up against a large vertical crate marked Algonquin Paper Works -- Credit Slips, Miniature -- #m. C'mell landed as gracefully as if she had been acting a rehearsed piece of acrobatics. The little monkey on her shoulder stared with wide bright eyes. "This," said the monkey A'genturEikasus firmly and contemptuously, "is where all the people play at working. I'm tired, I'm hungry and my body sugar is low." He curled himself tight against C'mell's shoulder, closed his eyes and went back to sleep. "He has a point," said Rod. "Could we eat?" Cmell started to nod and then caught herself short "You're a cat," you know. He nodded. Then he grinned. "I'm hungry, anyhow. And I need a sandbox." "Sandbox?" she said, staring at him. "An awef," he said very clearly, using the Old North Australian term. "Awef?" It was his turn to get embarrassed. He said it in full: "An animal waste evacuation facility." "You mean a johnny," she cried. She thought a minute and then said, "Fooey." "What's the matter?" he asked, puzzled. "Each kind of underpeople has to use its own. It's death if you don't use one and it's death if you use the wrong one. The cat one fa four stations back on this underground trackway. Or we can walk back on the surface. It would only be a half hour." He said something rude to Earth. She wrinkled her brow. "All I said was, 'Earth fa a large healthy sheep.' That # s not so dirty." Her good humor returned. IP B efore she could ask him another question he held up a firm hand. "I am not going to waste a half hour. You wait here." He had seen the universal sign for "men's room" at the upper level of the platform. Before she could stop him he had gone into it. She caught her hand up to her mouth, knowing that the robot police would kill him on sight if they found him in the wrong place. It would be such a ghastly joke if the man who owned the earth were to die in the wrong toilet. As quick as thought she followed him, stopping just outside the door to the "men's room." She dared not to go in; she trusted that the place was empty when Rod entered it, because she had heard no boom of a slow, heavy bullet, none of the crisp buzzing of a burner. Robots did not use toilets, so they went in only when they were investigating something. She was prepared to distract any man living if he tried to enter that toilet by offering him the combination of an Immediate seduction or a complimentary and unwanted monkey. A'gentur had waked up. "Don't bother," he said. "I called my father. Anything approaching that door will fall asleep." An ordinary man, rather tired and worried-looking, headed for the men's room. CmeH was prepared to stop him at any cost, but she remembered what A'gentur-E-ikasus had told her, so she waited. The man reeled as he neared them. He stared at them, saw that they were underpeople, looked on through them as though they were not there. He took two more steps toward the door and suddenly reached out his hands as if he were going blind. He walked into the wall two meters from the door, touched it firmly and blindly with his hands and crumpled gently to the floor, where he lay snoring. "My dad's good," said A'genturE-ikasus. "He usually leaves real people alone, but when he must get them, he gets them. He even gave that man the distinct memory that he mistakenly took a sleeping pill when he was reaching for a pain-killer. When the human wakes up, he will feel foolish and will tell no one of his experience." Rod came out of the ever-sodangerous doorway. He grinned at them boyishly and did not notice the crumpled man lying beside the wall. "That's easier than turning back, and nobody noticed me at all." He was so proud of his foolhardy adventure that she did not have the heart to blame him. He smiled widely, his cat-whiskers tipping as he did so. For a moment, just a moment, she forgot that he was an important person and a real man to boot. He was a boy, and mighty like a cat, but all boy in his satisfaction, his wanton bravery, his passing happiness with vainglory. For a second or two she loved him. Then she thought of the terrible hours ahead, and of how he would go home, rich and scornful, to his all-people planet. The moment of love passed but she still liked him very much. "Come along, young fellow. You can eat. You are going to eat cat food since you are C'roderick, but it's not so bad." He frowned. "What is it? Do you have fish here? I tasted fish one time. A neighbor bought one. He traded two horses for it. It was delicious." "He wants fish," she cried to E-ikasus. "Give him a whole tuna for himself," grumbed the monkey. "My blood sugar is still low. I need some pineapple." C 'mell did not argue. She stayed underground and led them into a hall which had a picture of dogs, cats, cattle, pigs, bears and snakes above the door; that indicated the kinds of people who could be served there. E-ikasus scowled at the sign but he rode C'mell's shoulder in. "This gentlemen," said C'mell, speaking pleasantly to an old bearman who was scratching his belly and smoking a pipe, all at the same time, "has forgotten his credits." "No food," said the bear-man. "Rules. He can drink water, though." "I'll pay for him," said C'mell. The bear-jnan yawned. "Are you sure that he won't pay you back? If he does, that is private trading and it is punished by death." "I know the rules," said C'mell. "I've never been disciplined yet." The bear looked her over critically. He took his pipe out of his mouth and whistled. "No," said he, "and I can see that you won't be. What are you, anyhow? A model." "A girlygirl," said C'mell. The bear-man leapt from his stool with astonishing speed. "Catmadam!" he cried. "A thousand pardons. You can have anything in the place. You come from the top of Earthport? You know the Lords of the Instrumentality personally? You would like a table roped off with curtains? Or should I just throw everybody else out of here and report to my Man that we have a famous, beautiful slave from the highplaces?" "Nothing that drastic," said C'mell. "Just food." "Wait a bit," said A'gentur Eikasus, "if you're offering specials, I'll have two fresh pineapples, a quarter-kilo of ground fresh coconut and a tenth of a kilo of live insect grubs." The bear-man hesitated. "I was offering things to the cat-lady, who serves the mighty ones, not to you, monkey. But if the lady desires it, I will send for those things." He waited for C'mell's nod, got it, and pushed a button for a low-grade robot to come. He turned to Rod McBan, "And you, cat-gentleman. What would you like?" Before Rod could speak, C'mell said, "He wants two sailfish steaks, french fried potatoes, Waldorf salad, an order of ice cream and a large glass of orange juice." The bear-man shuddered visibly. "I've been here for many years and that is the most horrible lunch I ever ordered for a cat. I think Fll try it myself." C'mell smiled the smile which IF had graced a thousand welcomes. "I'll just help myself from the things you have on the counters. I'm not fussy." He started to protest but she cut him short with a graceful but unmistakable wave of the hand. He gave up. They sat at a table. A'gentur-E-ikasus waited for his combination monkey and bird lunch. Rod saw an old robot, dressed in a prehistoric tuxedo jacket, ask a question of the bear-man, leave one tray and bring another tray to him. The robot whipped off a freshly starched napkin. There was the most beautiful lunch which Rod McBan h#d ever seen. Even at a state banquet, the Old North Australians did not feed their guests like that. Just as they were finishing, the bear-cashier came to the table and asked, "Your name, cat-madam? I will charge these lunches to the government." "C'mell, servant to Teadrinker, subject to the Lord Jestocost, a Chief of the Instrumentality." The bear's face had been epilated, so that they could see him pale. "C'mell," he whispered. "C'mell! Forgive me, my lady. I have never seen you before. You have blessed this place. You have blessed my life. You are the friend of all underpeople. Go in peace." C'mell gave him the bow and smile which a reigning empress might give to an active Lord of the Instrumentality. She started to pick up the monkey but he scampered on ahead of her. Rod was puzzled. As the bear-man bowed him out, he asked, "C'mell. You are famous?" "In a way," she said. "Only among the underpeople." She hurried them both toward a ramp. They reached daylight at last, but even before they came to the surface, Rod's nose was assaulted by a riot of smells -- foods frying, cakes on the air, perfumes fighting with each other for attention and, above all, the smell of old things: dusty treasures, old leathers, tapestries, the echo-smells of people who had died a long time ago. C 'mell stopped and watched him. "You're smelling things again? I must say, you have a better nose than any human being I ever met before. How does it smell to you?" "Wonderful," he gasped. "Wonderful. Like all the treasures of the universe spilled out into one little place." "It's just the Thieves' Market of Paris." "There are thieves on Earth? Open ones, like Viola Siderea?" "Oh no," she laughed. "They would die in a few days. The Instrumentality would catch them. These are just people, playing. The Rediscovery of Man found some old institutions, and an old market was one of them. They make the robots and underpeople find things for them and then they pretend to be ancient, and make bargains with each other. Or they cook food. Not many real people ever cook food these  See the story, "The Ballad of Lost #, No. I (October, #), pages #-#. days. It's so funny that it tastes good to them. They all pick up money on their way in. They have barrels of it at the gate. In the evening, or when they leave, they usually throw the money in the gutter, even though they should really put it back in the barrel. It's not money we underpeople could use. We go by numbers and computer cards," she sighed. "I could certainly use some of that extra money." "And underpeople like you -- like us -- " said Rod, "what do we do in the market?" "Nothing," she whispered. "Absolutely nothing. We can walk through if we are not too big and not too small and not too dirty and not too smelly. And even if we are all right, we must walk right through without looking directly at the real people and without touching anything in the market." "Suppose we do?" asked Rod defiantly. "The robot police are there, with orders to kill on sight when they observe an infraction. Don't yoh realize, C'rod," she sobbed at him, tanks, way below in Downdeepdowndeep, ready to be born, to be trained, to be sent up here to serve Man? We're not scarce at all, C'rod, we're not scarce at all!" "Why are we going through the market, then?" "It's the only way to the Catmaster's store. We'll be tagged. Come along." Where the ramp reached the surface, four bright-eyed robots, the blue-enamel bodies shining and their milky eyes glowing, stood at the ready. Their weapons had an ugly buzz to them and were obviously already off the "safety" mark. C'mell talked to them quietly and submissively. When the robot-sergeant led her to a desk, she stared into an instrument like binoculars and blinked when she took her eyes away. She put her palm on a desk. The identification was completed. The robot sergeant handed her three bright disks, like saucers, each with a chain attached. Wordlessly she hung them around her own neck, Rod's neck, and A'gentur's. The robots let them pass. They walked in demure single file through the place of beautiful sights and smells. Rod felt that his eyes were wet with tears of rage; "I'll buy this place," he thought to himself, "if it's the only thing I'll ever buy!" C'mell had stopped walking. He looked up, very carefully. A door opened. A wise old catperson face looked out, stared at them, snapped, "No underpeople!" and slammed the door. C'mell rang the doorbell a second time. The face reappeared, more puzzled than angry. "Business," she whispered, "of the Aitch Eye." The face said, "In. Quick!" Ill O nce inside, Rod realized that the store was as rich as the market. There were no other cusIP tomers. After the outside sounds of music, laughter, frying, boiling, things falling, dishes clattering, people arguing and the low undertone of the ever-ready robot weapons buzzing, the quietness of the room was itself a luxury, like old, heavy velvet. The smells were no less variegated than those on the outside. But they were different, more complicated, and many more of them were completely unidentifiable. One smell he was sure of: human fear. It had been in this room not long before. "Quick," said the old cat-man. "I'm in trouble if you don't get out of my store soon. What it your business?" "I'm C'mell," said C'mell. He nodded pleasantly, but showed no sign of recognition. "I forget people," he said. "This is A'gentur." She indicated the monkey. The old cat-man did not even look at the animal. C'mell persisted, a note of triumph coming into her voice: You may have heard of him under his real name, E-ikasus." The old man stood there, blinking, as though he were taking it in. "Yeekasoose? With the letter E?" "Transformed," said C'mell inexorably, "for a trip all the way to Old North Australia and back." "Is this true?" said the old man to the monkey. E-ikasus said calmly, "I am the son of him of whom you think." The old man dropped to his knees, but did so with dignity: "I salute you, E-ikasus. When you next think-with your father, give him my greetings and ask from the Catmaster." "You are famous," said E-ikasus tranquilly. "But you are still in danger, merely being here. I have no license for underpeople!" C'mell produced her trump. "Catmaster, your next guest is no c'man. He is a true man, an offworlder, and he has just bought most of the planet Earth." more than ordinary shrewdness. There was a touch of kindness in his attitude. He was tall for a cat-man; few animal features were left to him, because old age, which reduces racial and sexual contrasts to mere memories, had wrinkled him into a uniform beige. His hair was not white, but beige too; his few cat-whiskers looked old and worn. He was garbed in a fantastic costume which -- Rod later learned -- consisted of the court robes of one of the Original Emperors, a dynasty which had prevailed many centuries among the further stars. Age was upon him, but wisdom was too: the habits of life, in his case, had been cleverness and kindness, themselves unusual in combination. Now very old, he was reaping the harvest of his years. He had done well with the thousands upon thousands of days behind him, with the result that age had brought a curious joy into his manner, as though each experience meant one more treat before the long bleak dark closed in. Rod felt himself attracted to this strange creature, who looked at him with such penetrating and very personal curiosity, and who managed to do so without giving offense. The catmaster spoke in very passable Norstrilian: "I know what you are thinking, mister and owner McBan." "You can hier me?" cried Rod. "Not your thoughts. Your face. It reads easily. I am sure that I can help you." "What makes you think I need help?" "All things need help," said the old c'man briskly, "but we must get rid of our other guests first. Where do you want to go, excellent one? And you, cat-madam?" "Home," said E-ikasus. He was tired and cross again. After speaking brusquely, he felt the need to make his tone more civil. "This body suits me badly, catmaster." "Are you good at falling?" said the catmaster. "Free fall?" The monkey grinned. "With this body? Of course. Excellent." "Fine," said the catmaster, "you can drop down my waste chute. It falls next to the forgotten palace where the great wings beat against time." The catmaster stepped to one side of the room. With only a nod at C'mell and Rod and a brief, "See you later," the monkey watched as the catsmaster opened a manhole cover, leaped trustingly into the complete black depth which appeared and was gone. The catmaster replaced the cover carefully. IF H e turned to Cornell She faced him truculently, the defiance of her posture oddly at variance with the innocent voluptuousness of her young female body. "I'm going nowhere." "You'll die," said the catmaster. "Can't you hear their weapons buzzing just outside the door? You know what they do to us underpeople. Especially to us cats. They use us, but do they trust us?" "I know one who does," she said. "The Lord Jestocost could protect me, even here, just as he protects you, far beyond your limit of years." "Don't argue it. You will make trouble for him with the other real people. Here, girl, I will give you a tray to carry with a dummy package on it. Go back to the underground and rest in the commissary of the bear-man. I will send Rod to you when we are through." "Yes," she said hotly, "but will you send him alive or dead?" The catmaster rolled his yellow eyes over Rod. "Alive," he said. "This one -- alive. I have predicted. Did you ever know me to be wrong? Come on, girl, out the door with you." C'mell let herself be handed a tray and a package, taken seemingly at random. As she left Rod thought of her with quick affection. She was his closest link with earth. He blurted out, "C'mell, will you be all right." She turned around at the door itself, looking all woman and all cat. Her red wild hair gleamed like a hearth-fire against the open light from the doorway. She stood erect, as though she were a citizen of Earth and not a mere underperson or girlygirl. She held out her right hand clearly and commandingty while balancing the tray on her left hand. When he shook hands with her, Rod realized that her hand felt utterly human but very strong. With scarcely a break in her voice she said, "Rod, goodbye. I'm taking a chance with you, but if s the best chance I've ever taken. You can trust the Catmaster, here in the department store of hearts' desires. He does strange things, Rod, but they're good strange things." He released her hand and she hind her. The room became hushed. "Sit down for a minute while I get ready. Or look around." "Sir catmaster -- " said Rod. "No title, please. I am an underperson, made out of cats. You may I miss C'mell. I'm worried about her. Am I falling in love with her? Is that what falling in love means?" "She's your wife," said the catmaster. "Just temporarily and just in pretense, but she's still your wife. It's Earthlike to worry about one's mate. She's all right." The old c'man disappeared behind a door which had an odd sign Rod looked around. The very first thing he saw was a display cabinet full of postage stamps. It was made of glass, but he could see the soft blues and the inimitable warm brick reds of his Cape of Good Hope triangular postage stamps. He had come to earth and there they were! He peered through the glass at them. They were even better than the illustrations which he had seen back on Norstrilia. They had the temper of great age upon them and yet, somehow, they seemed to freight with them the love which men, living men now dead, had given them for thousands and thousands of years. He looked around, and saw that the whole room was full of odd riches. There were ancient toys of all periods, flying toys, copies of machines, things which he suspected were trains. There was a two-story closet of clothing, shimmering with embroidery and gleaming with gold. There was a bin of weapons, clean and tidy -- models so ancient that he could not possibly guess what they had been used for, or by whom. Everywhere, there were buckets of coins, usually gold ones. He picked up a handful. They had languages he could not even guess at and they showed the proud imperious faces of the ancient dead. Another cabinet was one which he glanced at and then turned away from, shocked and yet inquisitive; it was filled with indecent souvenirs and pictures from a hundred periods of men's history, images, sketches, photographs, dolls and models, all of them portraying grisly, comical, sweet, friendly, impressive or horrible versions of the many acts of love. The next section made him pause utterly. Who would have ever wanted these things? Whips, knives, hoods, leather corsets. He passed on, very puzzled. T here was a slight sound. Rod turned around to face the Catmaster. "You like my poems? You like my things? I like them myself. Many men come in here to take things from me, but they find that title is vested in the Lord Jestocost, and they must do strange things to obtain my trifles." "Are all these things genuine?" asked Rod, thinking that even Old North Australia could not buy out this shop if they were. "Certainly not," said the old man. "Most of them are wonderful forgeries. The Instrumentality lets me go to the robot-pits where insane or worn-out robots are destroyed. I can have my pick of them if they are not dangerous. I put them to work making copies of anything which I find in the museums." "Those Cape triangles?" said Rod. "Are they real?" "Cape triangles? You mean the letter stickers. They are genuine, all right, but they are not mine. Those are on loan from the Earth museum until I can get them copied." "I will buy them," said Rod. "You will not," said the catmaster. "They are not for sale." "Then I will buy Earth and you and them too," said Rod. "Roderick Frederick Ronald Arthe one hundred and fifty-first, you will not." "Who are you to tell me?" "I have looked at one person and I have talked to two others." "All right," said Rod. "Who?" "I looked at the other Rod McIF Ban, your workman, Eleanor. She is a little mixed up about having a young man's body, because she is very drunk in the home of the Lord tiful young woman named Ruth Not-from-here is trying to make Eleanor marry her. She has no idea that she is dealing with another woman and Eleanor, in her copy of your proper body, is finding the experience exciting but terribly confusing. No harm will come of it, and your Eleanor is perfectly safe. Half the rascals of Earth have conbut he has a whole battalion from the Defense Fleet on loan around the place. So nothing is going to happen -- except that Eleanor will have a headache and Ruth will have a disappointment." Rod smiled. "You couldn't have told me anything better. Who else did you talk to?" "The Lord Jestocost and John Fisher to the hundredth." "Mister and owner Fisher? He's here?" "He's at his home, station of the Good Fresh Joey. I asked him if you could have your heart's desire. After a little while, he and somebody named doctor Wentworth said that the Commonwealth of Old North Australia would approve it." "How did you ever pay for such a call?" cried Rod. "Those things are frightfully expensive." "I didn't pay for it, mister and owner. You did. I charged it to your account, by the authority of your trustee, the Lord Jestocost. He and his forefathers have been my patrons for four hundred and twenty-six years." "You've got your nerve," said Rod, "spending my money when I was right here and not even asking me!" "You are an adult for some purposes and a minor for other purposes. I am offering you the skills which keep me alive. Do you think any ordinary cat-man would be allowed to live as long as this?" "No," said Rod. "Give me those stamps and let me go." The catmaster looked at him levelly. Once again there was the personal look on his face, which in Norstrilia would have been taken as an unpardonable affront; but along with the nosiness, there was an air of confidence and kindness which put Rod a little in awe of the man, underperson though he was. "Do you think that you could love these stamps when you get back home? Could they talk to you? Could they make you like yourself? Those pieces of paper are not your heart's desire. Something else is." "What?" said Rod, truculently. "In a bit, I'll explain. First, you cannot kill me. Second, you cannot hurt me. Third, if I kill you, it will be all for your own good. Fourth, if you get out of here, you will be a very happy man." "Are you barmy, mister?" cried Rod. "I can knock you flat and walk out that door. I don't know what you are talking about." "Try it," said the catmaster leveliyRod looked at the tall withered old man with the bright eyes. He looked at the door, a mere seven or eight meters away. He did not want to try it "All right." he conceded, "play your pitch." "I am a clinical psychologist. The only one on Earth and probably the only one on any planet. I got my knowledge from some ancient books when I was a kitten, being changed into a young man. I change people just a little, little bit. You know that the Instrumentality has surgeons and brain experts and all sorts of doctors. They can do almost anything with personality but the light stuff. That I do." "I don't get it," said Rod. "Would you go to a brain surgeon to get a haircut? Would you need a dermatologist to give you a bath? Of course not. I don't do heavy work. I just change people a little bit. It makes them happy. If I can't do anything with them, I give them souvenirs from this junkpile out here. The real work is in there. That's where you're going, pretty soon." He nodded his head IV R od was not a coward, but it was with feet and legs of lead that he walked to the door. It opened by itself. He walked in, steady but afraid. The room was dark with a darkness deeper than mere black. It was the dark of blindness, the expanse of cheek where no eye has ever been. The door closed behind him and he swam in the dark, so tangible had the darkness become. He felt blind. He felt as though he had never seen. But he could hear. He heard his own blood pulsing through his head. He could smell -- indeed, he was good at smelling. And this air -- this air smelled of the open night of Old North Australia. The smell made him feel little and afraid. It reminded him of his repeated childhoods, of the artificial drownings in the laboratories where he had gone to be re-born from one childhood to another. He reached out his hands. Nothing. He jumped gently. No ceiling. Using a fieldsman's trick familiar from times of dust-storms, he dropped lightly to his hands and feet. He scuttled crabwise on two feet and one hand, using the other hand as a shield to protect his face. In a very few meters he found the wall. He followed the wall around. Circular. This was the door. Follow again. With more confidence, he moved fast. Around, around, around. He could not tell whether the floor was asphalt or some kind of rough worn tile. Door again. A voice spieked to him. Spieked! And he heard it . He looked upward into the nothing which was bleaker than blindness, almost expecting to see the words in letters of fire, so clear had they been. IF The voice was Norstrilian and it said, Rod McBan is a man , man , man. But what is man? Immediate percussion of crazy , sad laughter . Rod never noticed that he reverted to the habits of babyhood. He sat flat on his rump, legs spread out in front of him at a # angle. He put his hands a little behind him and leaned back, letting the weight of his body push his shoulders a little bit upward. He knew the ideas that would follow the words, but he never knew why he so readily expected them. Light formed in the room, as he had been sure it would. T he images were little, but they looked real. Men and women and children, children and women and men marched into his vision and out again. They were not freaks. They were not beasts. They were not alien monstrosities begotten in some outside universe. They were not robots. They were not underpeople. They were all hominids like himself, kinsmen in the Earthborn races of men. First came people like Old North Australians and Earth people, very much alike, and both similar to the ancient types, except that Norstrilians were pale beneath their tanned skins and more robust. Then came Daimoni, white-eyed pale giants with a magical assurance, whose very babies walked as though they had already been given ballet lessons. Then heavy men, fathers, mothers, infants swimming on the solid ground from which they would never arise. Then rainmen from Amazonas Triste, their skins hanging in enormous folds around them, so that they looked like bundles of wet rags wrapped around monkeys. Blind men from Olympia, staring fiercely at the world through the radars mounted on their foreheads. Bloated monster-men from abandoned planets -- people as bad off as his own race had been after esAnd still more races. People he had never heard of. Men with shells. Men and women so thin that they looked like insects. A race of smiling, foolish giants, lost in the irreparable hebephrenia of their world. (Rod had the feeling that they were shepherded by a race of devoted dogs, more intelligent than themselves, who cajoled them into breeding, begged them to eat, led them to sleep. He saw no dogs, only the smiling unfocused fools, but the feeling dog, good dog! was somehow very near.) A funny little people who pranced with an indefinable deformity of gait. Water-people, the clean water of some unidentified world pulsing through their gills. And then -- More people, still, but hostile ones. Lipsticked hermaphrodites with enormous beards and fluting voices. Carcinomas which had taken over men. Giants rooted in the earth. Human bodies crawling and weeping as they crept through wet grass, contaminated themselves and looking for more people to infect. Rod did not know it, but he growled. He jumped into a squatting position and swept his hands across the rough floor, looking for a weapon. These were not men -- they were enemies! Still they came. People who had lost eyes, or who had grown fireresistant, the wrecks and residues of abandoned settlements and forgotten colonies. The waste and spoilage of the human race. And then -- Him. Himself. The child Rod McBan. And voices, Norstrilian voices calling: "He can't hier. He can't spiek. He's a freak. He's a freak! He can't hier. He can't spiek." And another voice: "His poor parents!" The child Rod disappeared and there were his parents again. Twelve times taller than life, so high that he had to peer up into the black absorptive ceiling to see the underside of their faces. The mother wept. The father sounded stern. The father was saying, "It's no use. Doris can watch him while we're gone, but if he isn't any better, we'll turn him in." "Kill him?" shrieked the woman. "Kill my baby? Oh, no! No!" The calm, loving, horrible voice of the man. "Darling, spiek to him yourself. He'll never hier. Can that be a Rod McBan?" Then the woman's voice, sweetpoisonous and worse than death, sobbing agreement with her man against her son. "I don't know, Rod. I don't know. Just don't tell me about it." He had hiered them, in one of his moments of wild penetrating hiering when everything telepathic came in with startling clarity. He had hiered them when he was a baby. The real Rod in the dark room let out a roar of fear, desolation, loneliness, rage, hate. This was the telepathic bomb with which he had so often startled or alarmed the neighbors. B ut this time, the room was closed. His mind roared back at itself. Rage, loudness, hate, raw noise poured into him from the floor, the circular wall, the high ceiling. He cringed beneath it and as he cringed, the sizes of the images changed. His parents sat in chairs, chairs. They were little, little. He was an almighty baby, so enormous that he could scoop them up with his hand. He reached the tiny loathesome parents who had said, "Let him die." To crush them, but they faded first. Their faces turned frightened. They looked wildly around. Their chairs dissolved, the fabric falling to a floor which in turn looked like storm-eroded cloth. They turned for a last kiss and had no lips. They IF reached to hug each other and their arms fell off. Their space ship had gone milky in mid-trip, dissolving into traceless nothing. And he, himself had seen it! The rage was followed by tears, by a guilt too deep for regret, by a self-accusation so raw and wet that it lived like one more organ inside his living body. He wanted nothing. No money, no stroon, no Station of Doom. He wanted no friends, no companionship, no welcome, no house, no food. He wanted no walks, no solitary discoveries in the field, no friendly sheep, no treasures in the gap, no computer, no day, no night, no life. He wanted nothing, and he could not understand death. The enormous room lost all light and all sound, and he did not notice it. His own naked life lay before him like a freshly dissected cadaver. It lay there and it made no sense. There had been many Roderick MacArthur McBans, one hundred and fifty of them in a room, but he -- #! #! -- was not one of them, not a giant who had wrestled treasure from the sick earth and hidden sunshine of the Norstrilian plains. It wasn't his telepathic deformity, his spieklessness, his braindeafness to hiering. It was himself, the "me-subtile" inside him, which was all wrong. He was the baby stead. He had hated mama and papa for their pride and their hate: when he hated them, they crumpled and died out in the mystery of space, so that they did not even leave bodies to bury. Rod stood to his feet. His hands were wet. He touched his face and he realized that he had been weeping with his face cupped in his hands. Wait. There was something that still remained. There was one thing that he wanted, and he wanted it from his one enemy. He wanted Houghton Syme not to hate him. Houghton could hier and spiek, but he was a shortie, living with the sickness of death lying between himself and every girl, every friend, every job he had met. And he, Rod, had mocked that man, calling him Old Hot and Simple. Rod might be worthless but he was not as bad off as Houghton Syme, the Hon. Sec. Houghton Syme was at least trying to be a man, to live his miserable scrap of a life, and all Rod had ever done was to flaunt his wealth and near-immortality before the poor cripple who had just one hundred and sixty years to live. Rod wanted only one thing -- to get back to Old North Australia in time to help Houghton Syme, to let Houghton Syme know that the guilt was his, Rod's, and not Syme's. The Onseck had a bit of a life and he deserved the best that he could make of it. Rod stood there, expecting nothing. He had forgiven his last and worst enemy. He had forgiven himself. T he door opened very matter-offactly and there stood the Catmaster, a quiet, wise smile upon his face. "You can come out now, Mister and owner McBan, and if there is anything in this outer room which you want, you may certainly have it." Rod walked out slowly. He had no idea how long he had been in When he emerged, the door closed behind him. "No thanks, cobber. It's mighty friendly of you, but I don't need anything much, and I'd better be getting back to my own planet." "Nothing?" said the Catmaster, still smiling very attentively and very quietly. "I'd like to hier and spiek but it's not very important." "This is for you," said the Catmaster. "You put it in your ear and leave it there. If it itches or gets dirty, you take it out, wash it, and put it back in. It's not a rare device, but apparently you don't have them on your planet." He held out an object no larger than the kernel of a ground-nut. Rod took it absently and was ready to put it into his pocket, not into his ear, when he saw that the smiling attentive face was watching, very gently but very alertly. He put the device' into his ear. It felt a little cold. "I will now," said the Catmaster, "take you to C'mell, who will lead you to your friends in Downdeepdowndeep. You had better take this blue two-penny Cape of Good Hope postage stamp with you. I will report to Jestocost that it was lost while I attempted to copy it. That is slightly true, isn't it?" Rod started to thank him absentmindedly and then -- Then, with a thrill which sent gooseflesh all over his neck, back and arms, he realized that the Catmaster had not moved his lips in the slightest, had not pushed air through his throat, had not disturbed the air with the pressure of noise. The Catmaster had spieked to Rod and Rod had hiered him. V R od McBan left the Department Store of Hearts' Desires simply, humbly. He carried a package of books, wrapped in dustproofing paper, and he looked like any other first-class cat-man messenger. The human beings in the market were still making their uproar, their smells of foods, spices, and odd objects, but he walked so calmly and so straightforwardly through their scattered groups that even the robot police, weapons on the buzz, paid no attention to him. When he had come across the Thieves' Market, going the other way with C'mell and A'gentur, he had been ill at ease. As a misterand-owner from Old North Australia, he had been compelled to keep his external dignity, but he had not felt ease within his heart. These people were strange. His destination had been unfamiliar, and the problems of wealth and survival lay heavy upon him. IF Now, it was all different. Catman he might be on the outside, but on the inside he once again felt his proper pride of home and planet. And more. He felt calm, down to the very tips of his nerve endings. The hiering-spieking device should have alerted and excited him: it did not. As he walked through the market, he noticed that very few of the Earth people were communicating with one another telepathically. They preferred to babble in their loud airborne language, of which they had not one but many kinds, with the old Common Tongue serving as a referent for those who had been endowed with different kinds of ancient language by the processes of the Rediscovery of Man. He had even heard Ancient Inglish, the Queen's Own Language, sounding remarkably close to his own spoken language of Norstrilian. These things caused neither stimulation nor excitement, not even pity. He had his own problems, but they were no longer the problems of wealth or of survival. Somehow he had a confidence that a hidden, friendly power in the universe would take care of him, if he took care of others. He wanted to get Eleanor out of trouble, to disembarrass the Hon. Sec., to see Lavinia, to reassure Doris, to say goodbye to C'mell, to get back to his sheep, to protect his computer and to keep the Lord Redlady away from lawfully on occasions too slight for manslaughter. One of the robot police, a little more perceptive than the others, watched this cat-man who walked with preternatural assurance through the crowds of men, but "C'roderick" did nothing but enter the market from one side, thread his way through it and leave at the other side, still carrying his package. The robot turned away. His dreadful, milky eyes, always ready for disorder and death, scanned the market place again and again with fatigue-free vigilance. Rod went down the ramp and turned right. There was the underpeople commissary with the bear-man cashier. The cashier remembered him. "It's been a long day, cat-sir, since I saw you. Would you like another special order of fish?" "Where's my girl?" said Rod bluntly. "C'mell?" said the bear-cashier. "She waited here a long time but then she went on and she left this message, Tell my man C'Rod that he should eat before following me, but that when he has eaten he can either follow me by going to Upshaft Four, Ground Level Hostd of the Singing Birds, Room Nine, where I am taking care of an offworld visitor, or he can send a robot to me and I will come to him.' Don't you think, cat-sir, that I've done well, remembering so complicated a message?" The bear-man flushed a little and the edge went off his pride as he confessed, for the sake of some abstract honesty, "Of course, that address part, I wrote that down. It would be very bad and very confusing if I sent you to the wrong address in people's country. Somebody might bum you down if you came into an unauthorized corridor." "Fish, then," said Rod. "A fish dinner, please." H e wondered why Cmell, with his life in the balance, would go off to another visitor. Even as he thought this, he detected the mean jealousy behind it, and he confessed to himself that he had no idea of the terms, conditions, or hours of work required in the girlygirl business. He sat dully on the bench, waiting for his food. still in his mind, the pathos of his parents, those dying dissolving mannikins, was bright within his heart, and his body throbbed with the fatigue of the ordeal. Idly he asked the bear-cashier, "How long has it been since I was here?" The bear-cashier looked at the clock on the wall, "About fourteen hours, worthy cat." "How long is that in real time?" Rod was trying to compare Norstrilian hours with Earth hours. He thought that Earth hours were oneseventh shorter, but he was not sure. The bear-man was completely baffled. "If you mean galactic navigation time, dear guest, we never use that down here anyhow. Are there any other kinds of time?" Rod realized his mistake and tried to correct it. "It doesn't matter. I am thirsty. What is lawful for underpeople to drink? I am tired and thirsty, both, but I have no desird to become the least bit drunk." "Since you are a c'man," said the bear-cashier, "I recommend strong black coffee mixed with sweet whipped cream." "I have no money," said Rod. 'The famous cat-madam, CmeH your consort, has guaranteed payment for anything at all that you order." "Go ahead, then." The bear-man called a robot over and gave him the orders. Rod stared at the wall, wondering what he was going to do with this Earth he had bought. He wasn't thinking very hard, just musing idly. A voice cot directly into his mind. He realized that the bear-man was spieking to him and that he could hear it. "You are not an underman, sir and master." "What?" spieked Rod. "You heard me," said the telepathic voice. "I am not going to repeat it. If you come in the sign of the Fish, may blessings be upon you." T don't know that sign," said Rod. "Then," spieked the bear-man, "no matter who you are, may you eat and drink in peace because you are a friend of Cornell and you are under the protection of the One Who Lives in Downdeep." "I don't know," spieked Rod. "I just don't know, but I thank you for your welcome, friend." "I do not give such welcomes Kghtly," said the bear-man, "and IF ordinarily I would be ready to ran away from anything at dangerous and unexplained as yourself, but you bring with you the quality of peace, which made me think that you might travel in the fellowship of the sign of the Fish. I have heard that in that sign, people and underpeople remember die blessed Joan and mingle in complete comradeship." "No," said Rod, "no. I travel alone." His food and drink came. He consumed them quietly. The bearcashier had given him a table ami bench far from the serving tables and away from the other underpeople who dropped in, interrupting their tasks, eating in a hurry so that they could get back in a hurry. He saw one wolf-man, wearing the insigne of Auxiliary Police, who came to the wall, forced his identitycard into a dot, opened his mouth, bolted down five large chunks a f red, raw meat and left the commissary, all in less than one and onehalf minutes. Rod was amazed but not impressed. He had too much on his rnfrvi. At the desk he confirmed the address which Ctadl had left, offered the bearsman a handshake and went along to Upshaft Four. He still looked like a c'man and he carried his package alertly and htmbly, as he had seen other underpeople behave in the presence of real persons. H e almost met death on the way. Upshaft Four was one-directional and was plainly marked, "People Only." Rod did not like the looks of it, as long as he moved in a cat-man body, but he did not think that Cmell would give him directions wrongly or lightly. (Later, he found that she had forgotten to tell him the phrase, "Special business under the protection of Jetocost, a Chief of the Instrumentality, " If he were to be challenged; but he did not know the phrase.) An arrogant human man, wearing a billowing red cloak, looked at him sharply as he took a belt, hooked it and stepped into the shaft When Rod stepped free, bd and the man were on a level. Rod tried to look like a humble, modest messenger, but the strange voice grated his ears: "Just what do you think you are doing? This is a human shaft." Rod pretended that he did not know it was himself whom the redcloaked man was addressing. He continued to float quietly upward, his magnet-belt tugging uncomfortably at his waist. A pain in foe ribs made him tuns suddenly, almost losing his balance! in foe belt "Animal!" cried foe man. "Speak up or die." Still holding his package of books. Rod said mildly, "Tm on an errand and I was told to go this way." The man's senseless hostility gave caliber to his voice: "And who told you?" "Cmell," said Rod absently. The man and his companions laughed at that, and for some reason their laughter had no humor #P in it, just savagery, cruelty and -- way down underneath -- something of fear. "Listen to that!" said the man in a red cloak. "One animal says another animal told it to do something." He whipped oat a knife. "What are you doing?" cried Rod. "Just cutting your belt," said the man. "There's nobody at all below us and you will make a nice red blob at the bottom of the shaft, cat-man. That ought to teach you which shaft to use." The man actually reached over and seized Rod's belt. He lifted the knife to slash. Rod became frightened and angry. His brain ran red. He spat thoughts at them -- pommy! shortie! Earthie! dead red dirty blue stinking little man, die, puke, burst, blaze, die! It all came out in a single flash, faster than he could control it. The red-cloaked man twisted oddly, as if in spasm. His two companions threshed in their belts. They turned slowly. High above them, two women began screaming. Further up a man was shouting, both with his voice and with his mind, "Police! Help! Police! Police! Brainbomb! Brainbomb! Help!" The effort of his telepathic explosion left Rod feeling disoriented and weak. He shook his head and blinked his eyes. He started to wipe his face, only to hit himself on the jaw with the package of books, which he still carried. This aroused him a little. He looked at the three men. Redcloak was dead, his head at an odd angle. The other two seemed to be dead. One was floating upside down, his rump pointing upmost and the two limp legs swinging out at odd angles; the other was right-side up but had sagged in his belt. All three of them kept moving a steady ten meters a itainute, right along with Rod. There were strange sounds from above. shaft with its volume, roared down: "Stay where you are! Police. Police. Police." R od glanced at the bodies floating upward. A corridor came by. He reached for the grip-bar, made it, and swung himself into the horizontal passage. He sat down immediately, not getting away from the Upshaft. He thought sharply with his new hiering. Excited, frantic minds beat all around him, looking for enemies, lunatics, crimes, aliens, anything strange. Softly he began spieking to the empty corridor and to himself, "I am a dumb cat. I am the messenger C'rod. I must take the books to the gentleman from the stars. I am a dumb cat. I do not know much." A robot, gleaming with the ornamental body-armor of Old Earth, landed at his cross-corridor, looked at Rod and called up the shaft, "Master, here's one. A c'man with a package. IF A young subchief came into view, feet first as he managed to ride down the shaft instead of going up it. He seized the ceiling of the transverse corridor, gave himself a push and (once free of the shaft's magnetism) dropped heavily on his feet beside Rod. Rod hiered him thinking, "Fm good at this. I'm a good telepath. I clean things up fast Look at this dumb cat." Rod went on concentrating, "Fm a dumb cat. I have a package to deliver. Fm a dumb cat." The subchief looked down at him scornfully. Rod felt the other's mind slide over his own in the rough equivalent of a search. He remained relaxed and tried to feel stupid while the other hiered him. Rod said nothing. The subchief flashed his baton over the package, eying the crystal knob at the end. "Books," he snorted. Rod nodded. "You!" said the bright young subchief. "You see bodies?" He spoke in a painfully clear, almost childish version of the Old Common Tongue. Rod held up three fingers and then pointed upward. "You, cat-man, you feel file brain-bomb!" Rod, beginning to enjoy the game, threw his head backward and let out a cattish yowl expressing pain. The subchief could not help clapping his hands over his ears. He started to turn away. "I can see what you think of it, cat fellow. You're pretty stupid, aren't you?" Still thinking low dull thoughts as evenly as he could, Rod said promptly and modestly, "Me smart cat. Very handsome, too." "Come along," said the subchief to his robot, disregarding Rod altogether. Rod plucked at his sleeve. The subchief turned back. Very humbly Rod said, "Sir and master, which way. Hostel of Singing Birds, Room Nine?" "Mother of poodles!" cried the subchief. "Fm on a murder case and this dumb cat asks me for directions." He was a decent young man and he thought for a minute. "This way -- " said he, pointing up the Upshaft -- "it's twenty mode meters and then the third street over. But that's 'people only.' IF about a kilometer over to the step for animals." He stood, frowning, and then swung on one of his robots: "Wush you see this cat!" "Yes, master, a cat-man, very handsome." "So you think he's handsome, too. He already thinks so, so that makes it unanimous. He may be handsome, but he's dumb. Wush', take this cat-man to the address he tells you. Use the upshaft by my authority. Don't put a belt on him, just hug him." Rod was immeasurably grateful that he had slipped his shaftbelt off and had left it negligently on the rack, just before the robot arrived. The robot seized him around the waist with what was literally a grip of iron. They did not wait for the slow upward magnetic drive of file shaft to lift them. The robot had some kind of jet in his backpack and lifted Rod with sickening speed to the next level. He pushed Rod into the corridor and followed him. "Where do you go?" said the robot, very plainly. Rod, concentrating on feeling stupid just in case someone might still be trying to hier his mind, said slowly and stumblingly, "Hostel of the Singing Birds, Room Nine." The robot stopped still, as though he were communicating telepathically, but Rod's mind, though alert, could catch not the faintest whisper of telepathic communication. "Hot buttered sheep!" thought Rod. "He's using radio to check the address with his headquarters right from here!" VI W ush' appeared to be doing just that. He came to in a moment. They emerged under the sky, filled with Earth's own moon, the loveliest thing that Rod had ever seen. He did not dare to stop and enjoy the scenery, but he trotted lithely beside the robot-policeman. They came down a road with heavy, scented flowers. The wet warm air of Earth spread the sweetness everywhere. On their right there was a courtyard with copies of ancient fountains, a dining space now completely empty of diners, a robot waiter in the corner and many individual rooms opening on the plaza. The robot policeman called to the robotwaiter, "Where's number nine?" The waiter answered him with a lifting of the hand and an odd twist af the wrist, twice repeated, which the robot-policeman seemed to understand perfectly well. "Come along," he said to Rod, leading the way to an outside stairway which reached up to an outside balcony serving the second story of rooms. One of the rooms had a plain number nine on it. Rod was about to tell the robotpoliceman that he could see the number nine, when Wush' with officious kindness, took the doorknob and flung it open with a gesture of welcome to Rod. There was the great cough of a heavy gun and Wush', his head blown almost completely off, clanked metallically to the iron floor of the balcony. Rod instinctively jumped for cover and flattened himself against the wall of the building. A handsome man, wearing what seemed to be a black suit, came into the doorway, a heavy-caliber police pistol in his hand. "Oh, there you are," said he to Rod evenly enough. "Come on in." Rod felt his legs working, felt himself walking into the room despite the effort of his mind to resist. He stopped pretending to be a dumb cat. He dropped the books on the ground and went back to thinking like his normal Old North Australian self, despite the cat body. It did no good. He kept on walking involuntarily, and entered the room. As he passed the man himself, he was conscious of a sticky sweet rotten smell, like nothing he had ever smelled before. He also saw that the man, though fully dothed, was sopping wet. He entered the room. IT I t was raining inside. Somebody had jammed the fire-sprinkler system so that a steady rain fell from the ceiling to the floor. C'mell stood in the middle of the room, her glorious red hair a wet stringy mop hanging down her shoulders. There was a look of concentration and alarm on her face. "I," said the man, "am Tostig Amaral. This girl said that her husband would come with a policeman. I did not think she was right. But she was right. With the cat-husband (here comes a policeman. I shoot the policeman. He is a robot and I can pay the Earth government for as many robots as I like. You are a cat. I can kill you also, and pay die charges on you. But I am a nice man, and I want to make love with your little red art over there, so I will be generous and pay you somedung to that you can tell her she is mine and not yours. Do you understand that, cat-man?" Rod found himself released from (he unexplained muscular bonds which had hampered his freedom. "My lord, my master from afar," he said, "Cmell is an underperson. It is the law here that if an underperson and a person become involved hi love, the underperson dies and the human person gets brainscrubbed. I am sure, my master, that you would not want to be brainscrubbed by the Earth authorities. Let the girl go." Amaral glided across the room. His face was pale, petulant, human, but Rod saw that the black clothes were not clothes at all. The "dothes" were mucous membranes, an extension of Amaral's living skin, The pale face turned even more pale with rage. "You're a bold cat-man to talk like that. My body is bigger than yours, and it is poisonous as welL We have had to live hard in the rain of Amazonas Triste, and we have mental and physical powers which you had better not disturb. If you will not take payment, go away anyhow. The girl is mine. What happens to her is my business. If I violate Earth regulations, I will destroy the c'girl and pay for her. Go away, or you die." Rod spoke with deliberate calm and calculated risk. "Citizen, I play no game. I am not a cat-man but a subject of Her Absent Majesty the Queen, from Old North Australia. I give you warning that it is a man you face, and no mere animal. Let that girl go." C'mell struggled as though she were trying to speak, but could not. Amaral laughed, "That's a lie, animal and a bold one. I admire you for trying to save your mate. But she is mine. She is a girlygirl and the Instrumentality gave her to me. She is my pleasure. Go, bold cat! You are a good liar." Rod took his last chance, "Scan me if you will." He stood his ground. Amaral's mind ran over his personality like filthy hands pawing naked flesh. Rod recoiled at the dirtiness and intimacy of being felt by such a person's thoughts, because be could sense the kinds of pleasure and cruelty which Amaral had experienced. He stood firm, calm, sure, just. He was not going to leave C'mell with this -- this monster from the stars, man though he might be, of the old true human stock. Amaral laughed. "You're a man, all right. A boy. A farmer. And you cannot hier or spiek except for the button in your ear. Get out, child, before I box your ears!" Rod spoke: "Amaral, I herewith put you in danger." Amaral did not reply with words. His peaked sharp face grew paler and the folds of his skin dilated. They quivered, like the edges of wet, torn balloons. The room began to fill with a sickening sweet stench, as though it were a candy shop in which all the unburied bodies had died weeks before. There was a Smell of vanilla, of sugar, of fresh hot cookies, of baked bread, of chocolate boiling in the pot: there was even a whiff of stroon. But as Amaral tensed and shook out his auxiliary skins each smell turned wrong, into a caricature and abomination of itself. The composite was hypnotic. Rod glanced at C'mell. She had turned completely white. That decided him. The calm which he had found with the Catmaster might be good, but there were moments for calm and other moments for anger. Rod deliberately chose anger. He felt fury rising in him as hot and quick and greedy as if it had been love. He felt his heart go faster, his muscles become stronger, his mind dearer. Amaral apparently had total confidence in Ms own poisonous and hypnotic powers, because he was staring straightforward as his skins swelled and waved in the air like wet leaves under water. The steady drizzle from the sprinkler kept everything penetratingly wet. Rod disregarded this. He welcomed fury. With his new hiering device, he focused on Amaral's mind, and only on Amaral's. Amaral saw the movement of his eyes and whipped a knife into view. "Man or cat, you're dying!" said Amaral, himself hot with the excitement of hate and collision. Rod then spoke, in his worst scream -- beast, filth, offal -- spot, dirt, vileness, wet, nasty -- die, die, die! H e was sure it was the loudest cry he had ever given. There was no echo, no effect. Amaral stared at him, the evil knife-point flickering in his hand like the flame atop a candle. Rod's anger reached a new height. He felt pain in his mind when he walked forward, cramps in his muscles as he used them. He felt a real fear of the offworld poison which this man-creature might exude, but the thought of C'mell -- cat or not cat -- alone with Amaral was enough to give him the rage of a beast and the strength of a machine. IF Only at the very last moment did Amaral realize Rod had broken loose. Rod never could tell whether the telepathic scream had really hurt the wet-worlder or not, because he did something very simple. He reached with all the speed of a Norstrilian farmer, snatched the knife from Amaral's hand, ripping folds of soft, sticky skin with it, and then slashed the other man from davicle to clavicle. He jumped back in time to avoid the spurt of blood. The "wet black suit" collapsed as Amaral died on the floor. Rod took the dazed C'mell by the arm and led her out of the room. The air on the balcony was fresh, but the murder-smell of Amazonas Triste was still upon him. He knew that he would hate himself for weeks, just from the memory of that smell. There were whole armies of robots and police outside. The body of Wush' had been taken away. There was silence as they emerged. Then a clear, civilized, commanding voice spoke from the plaza below, "Is he dead?" Rod nodded. "Forgive me for not coming closer. I am the Lord Jestocost. I know you, C'roderick, and I know who you really are. These people are all under my orders. You and the girl can wash and wash in the rooms below. Then you can run a certain errand. Tomorrow, at the second hour, I will see you." Robots came close to them -- apparently programmed to have no sense of smell, because the fulsome stench did not bother them in the least. People stepped out of their way looking startled and repelled, aa they passed. Rod was able to murmur, "C'mell, are you all right?" She nodded and. she gave him a wan smile. Then she forced herself to speak. "You are brave, mister McBan. You are even braver than a cat." The robots separated the two of them. Within moments Rod found little white medical robots taking his clothing off him gently, deftly and quickly. A hot shower, with a smell of medication to it, was already hissing in the bath-stall. Rod was tired of wetness, tired of all this water everywhere, tired of wet things and complicated people, but he stumbled into the shower with gratitude and hope. He was still alive. He had unknown friends to help him. And C'mell. C'mell was safe from the rain-man. "Is this," thought Rod, "what people call love?" The clean stringing astringency of the shower drove all thoughts from his mind. Two of the little white robots had followed him in. He sat on a hot, wet wooden bench and they scrubbed him with brushes which felt as though they would remove his very skin as they worked to get him clean. Bit by bit, the terrible odor faded. vn R od McBan went from the room of the stinkman to a place where a doctor gave him new smells to experience, smells of chemistry and of medicine and of heat and old. The doctor's name was Vomact, and Rod would have enjoyed his company if he had not wondered where CmeH was and what she was doing. Vomact was a small man, a full head shorter than Rod himself, but so gracefully proportioned that he did not look stunted or little. His face was thin, with a mop of ungovernable black hair which fell in all directions. Among Norstrilians, this fashion would have been deemed eccentric; to judge by the fact that other Earthmen let their hair grow wild and long, it must have been an Earth fashion. Rod found it foolish but not repulsive. It was not Vomact's appearance which caused the impression. It was the personality which tingled out of every pore. Vomact could become clam when he knew, from his medical wisdom, that kindness and tranquility were in order, but these qualities were not usual to him. He was vivacious, moody, lively, talkative to an extreme, but he was sensitive enough to the person to whom he was talking: he never became a bore. Even among Norstrilian women, Rod had never seen a person who expressed so much, so fluently. When Vomact talked, his hands were in constant motion -- outlining, describing, clarifying the points which he described. When he talked he smiled, scowled, raised his eyebrows in questioning, stared with amazement, looked aside in wonder. Rod was used to the sight of two Norstrilians having a long telepathic conversation, spieking and hiering one another as their bodies reposed, comfortable and immobile, while their minds worked directly on one another. To do all this with the speaking voice -- that, to a Norstrilian, was a marvel to hear and behold. There was something graceful and pleasant about the animation of this earth doctor which stood in complete contrast to the quick dangerous decisiveness of the Lords of the Instrumentality. Rod began to think that if Earth were full of people, all of them like Vomact, it must be a delightful but confusing place. Vomact had once hinted that his family was unusual, so that even in the long weary years of perfection, when everyone else had numbers, they kept their family name secret but remembered. UT am doctor Vomact. I know A that you are not a cat, mister and owner McBan, and it is only my business to check up on you. May I?" "Cmell -- " began Rod. "She is perfectly all right. We have given her a sedative and for the time being she is being treated as though she was a human woman. From the Instrumentality, the Lord Jestocost told me to suspend the rules in her case, and I did so. But I think we will both have trouble about the matter later on." IF Trouble?" said Rod. Til pay -- " "No, no, it's not payment. It's just the rule that damaged underpeople should be destroyed and not put in hospitals. Mind you, I treat them myself now and then, if I can do it on the sly. But now let's have a look at you." "Why are we talking?" spieked Rod telepathically. "Didn't you know that I can hier mind-to-mind now?" Instead of getting a physical examination, Rod had a wonderful visit with the doctor, in which they drank enormous glasses of a sweet Earth beverage called chai by the ancient Parosski ones. He found that this doctor Vomact was a candidate for a Chiefship of the Instrumentality, and he learned something of the strange tests required for that office. He even found that the doctor knew more than he himself did about his own financial position, and that the actuarial balances of Earth were sagging with the weight of his wealth, since the increase in the price of stroon might lead to shorter lives. The doctor and he ended by discussing the underpeople; he found that the doctor had just as yivid an admiration for C'mell as he himself did. The evening ended when Rod said, "I'm young, doctor and sir, and I sleep well, but I'm never going to sleep again if you don't get that smell away from me. I can smell it inride my nose." The doctor became professional. He said, "Open your mouth and breathe right into my face!" Rod hesitated and then obeyed. "Great crooked stars!" said the doctor. "I can smell it too. There's a little in your upper respiratory system, perhaps a little even in your lungs. Do you need your sense of smell for the next few days?" Rod said he did not. "Fine," said the doctor. "We oan numb that section of the brain very gently. There'll be no residual damage. You won't smell anything for eight to ten days, and by that time the smell of Amaral will be gone. Incidentally, you were charged with first degree murder, tried and acquitted, on the matter of Tostig Amaral." "How could I be?" said Rod. "I wasn't even arrested." 'The Instrumentality computered it. Now lie down, so I can kill off that smell." Rod lay down. The doctor put his head in a clamp and called in process knocked him out, and when he wakened, it was in a different building. He sat up in bed and saw the sea itself. Cmefl was standing at the edge of water. He sniffed. He smelled no salt, no wet, no water -- and no AmaraL It was worth the change. C 'mell came to him. "My dear, my very dear, my sire and master but my very dear! You chanced your life for me last night." "I'm a cat myself," laughed Rod. He leaped from the bed and ran out to the water margin. The immensity of blue water was incredible. The white waves were separate, definable miracles, each one of them. He had seen the enclosed lakes of Australia, but none of them did things like this. C'mell had the tact to stay silent tffl he had seen his fill. Then she broke the news. "You own Earth. You have work to do. Either you stay here and begin studying how to manage your property, or you go somewhere else. Either way, something a little bit sad is going to happen today." He looked at her seriously, his pajamas flapping in the wet wind which he could no longer smell. "I'm ready," he said. "What is it?" "You lose me." "Is that all? he laughed. C'mell looked very hurt. She stretched her fingers as though she were a nervous cat looking for something to claw. "I thought -- " said she, and stopped. She turned to look at him, staring fully, trustingly into his face. "You're such a young man, but you can do anything. Even among men you are fierce and decided. Tell me, what -- what do you wish?" "Nothing much," he smiled at her, "except that I am buying you and taking you home. We can't go to Norstrilia unless the law changes, but we can go to New Mars. They don't have any rules there, or none which a few tons of stroon won't get changed. C'mell, I'll stay cat. Will you marry me?" She started laughing but the laughter turned into weeping. She bugged him and buried her face against his chest. At last she wiped her ears off on her arm and looked up at him "Poor silly mel Poor silly you! Don't you see it, mister? I am a cat. If I had children, they would be cat-kittens, every one of them, unless I went every single week to get the genetic code recycled so that they would turn out underpeople. Don't you know that you and I can never marry -- not with any real hope? Besides, Rod, there is the other rule. You and I connot even see each other again from this sunset onward. How do you think the Lord Jestocost saved my life yesterday? How did he break almost all the rules of the book?" The brightness had gone out of Rod's day. "I don't know," he said dully. "By promising them I would die promptly and obediently if there were any more irregularities. By saying I was a nice animal. A biddable one. My death is hostage for what you and I must do. It's not a law. It's something worse than a law -- it's an agreement between the Lords of the Instrumentality." "I see," said he, understanding the logic of it, but hating the cruel Earth customs which put C'mell and himself together, only to tear them apart. "Let's walk down the beach, Rod," she said. "Unless you want your breakfast first of all..." "Oh, no," he said. Breakfast! a flutty crupp for all die breakfasts on Earth! She walked as though she had not a care in the world, but there was an undertone of meaning to her walk which warned Rod that she was up to something. IF It happened. F irst, she kissed him, with a kiss he remembered the rest of his life. Then, before he could say a word, she spieked in a penetrating telepathic shout. But her spieking was not words or ideas at all. It was singing of a high wild kind. It was the music which went along with her very own poem, which she had sung to him atop Earthport: And oh, my love, for you! High birds flying, and a High sky crying, and a High heart striving, and a High wind driving, and High brave place for you! But it was not those words, not those ideas, even though they seemed subtly different this time. She was doing something which the best telepaths of Old North Australia had tried in vain for thousands of years to accomplish -- she was transmitting the mathematical and proportional essence of music right out of her mind, and she was doing it with a clarity and force which would have been worthy of a great orchestra. The "high wind driving" fugue kept recurring. He turned his eyes away from her to see the astonishing thing which was happening all around them. The air, the ground, the sea were all becoming thick with life. Fish flashed out of blue waves. Wings circled by the multitude above them. The beach was thick with little running birds. Dogs and running animals which he had never seen before stood restlessly around C'mell -- hectares of them. Abruptly she stopped her song. With very high volume and clairty, she spat commands in all directions: 'Think of people. "Think of this cat and me running away somewhere "Think of ships. "Look for strangers. "Think of things in the sky." Rod was glad he did not have his broad-band telepathic hiering come on, as it sometimes had done at home. He was sure he would have gone dizzy with the pictures and the contradictions of it all. She had grabbed his shoulders and was whispering fiercely into his ear: "Rod, they'll cover us. Please make a trip with me, Rod. One last dangerous trip. Not for you. Not for me. Not even for mankind. For life, Rod. The Aitch Eye wants to see you." "Who's the Aitch Eye?" "He'll tell you the secret if you see him," she hissed. "Do it for me, then, if you don't trust my ideas." He smiled. "For you, C'mell, yes." "Don't even think, then, till you get there. Don't even ask questions. depend on you, Rod." She stood up and sang again, but the new song had no grief in it, no anguish, no weird keening from species to species. It was as cool and pretty as a music box, as simple as an assured and happy goodby. "That," said C'mell, "should ratGe the telepathic monitors for a while. They are not very imaginative anyhow, and when they get something like this they write up reports about it. Then they can't understand their reports and sooner or later one of them asks me what I did. I tell them the truth." "What are you going to tell them this time?" he asked, as they walked back to the house. "That I had something which I did not want them to hear." "They won't take that." "Of course not, but they will suspect me of trying to beg stroon for you to give to the underpeople." "Do you want some, C'mell?" "Of course not! It's illegal and it would just make me live longer than my natural life. Why bother?" They had reached die house. C'mell paused. "No questions, Rod." The smile she gave him would have melted a monument. He felt well. He was amused and pleased by the physical delight of hiering and spieking with die occasional true people who passed by. (Some underpeople could hier and spiek but they tried to conceal it, for fear that they would be resented.) He felt strong. Losing C'mell was a sad thing to do, but it was a whole day off; he began dreaming of things that he could do for her when they parted. Buying her services of thousands of people for the rest of her life? Giving her jewelry which would be the envy of Earthmankind? Leasing her a private planoform yacht? He suspected these might not be legal, but they were pleasant to think about vrn T hree hours later, he had no time for pleasant thoughts. They had flown into Earthport city, and they had started going down. Forty-five minutes of dropping had made his stomach very queasy. He felt the air go warm and stale and he wished desperately that he had not given up his sense of smell. Where the drop-shafts ended, the tunnels and the elevators began. Down they went, where incredibly old machinery spun slowly in a spray of oil, performing tasks which only the wildest mind could guess at. In one room, C'mell stopped and shouted at him over the noise of engines: "That's a pump." It did not look obvious. Huge turbines moved wearily. They seemed to be hooked up to an enormous steam engine powered by nuclear fuel. Five or six brightly-polished robots eyed them suspiciously as they walked around the machine, which was at least eighty meters long by forty-five high. "And come here... " shouted CmeD. They went into another room, empty and dean and quiet except for a rigid column of moving water which shot from floor to ceiling with no evidence of machinery at all. An underman, sloppily formed from a rat body, got up from his rocking chair when they entered. He bowed to Cmell as though she were a great lady but she waved him back to his chair. She took Rod near the column IF of water and pointed to a shiny ring on the floor. "That's the other pump. They do the same amount of work." "What is it?" he shouted. "Force-field, I guess. I'm not an engineer." They went on. In a quieter corridor she explained that the pumps were both of them for the service of weather control. The old one had been running six or seven thousand years, and showed very little wear. When people needed a supplementary one, they had simply printed it on plastic, set it in the floor, and turned it on with a few amps. The underman was there just to make sure that nothing broke down or went critical. "Can't real people design things any more?" asked Rod. "Only if they want to. Making them want to do things is the hard part now." "You mean, they don't want to do anything?" "Not exactly," said Cmell, "but they find that we are better than they are at almost anything. Real work, that Is. Not statesmanship like running the Instrumentality and the Earth government. Here and there a real human being gets to work, and there are always offworlders like you to stimulate them and challenge them with new problems. But they used to have secure lives of four hundred years, a common language, and a standard conditioning. They were dying off, just by being too perfect. One way to get better would have been to kill off us underpeople, but they couldn't do that all the way. There was too much messy work to be done that you couldn't count on robots for. Even the best robot, if he's a computer linked to the mind of a mouse will do fine for routine, but unless he has a very complete human education, he's going to make some wild judgments which won't suit what people want. So they need underpeople. I'm still a cat underneath it all, but even the cats which are unchanged are pretty close relatives of human beings. They make die same basic choices between power and beauty, between survival and self-sacrifice, between common sense and high courage. So the Lady Alice More worked out this plan for the Rediscovery of Man. Set up the Ancient Nations, give everybody an extra culture besides the old one based on the Old Common Tongue, let them get mad at each other, restore some disease, some danger, some accidents, but average it out so that nothing is really unchanged." T hey had come to a storeroom, the sheer size of which made Rod blink. The great reception haH at the top of Earthport had astounded him. This room was twice the size. The room was filled with extremely ancient cargoes which had not even been unpacked from their containers. Rod could see that some were marked outbound for worlds which no longer existed, or which had changed their names. Others were inbound,, but no one had unpacked them for fire thousand years and more. "What's all this stuff?" "Shipping, Technological change. Somebody wrote it all off the computers, so they didn't have to think of it any more. This is the thing which underpeople and robots are searching, to supply the ancient artifacts for the Rediscovery of Man. One of our boys -- rat stock, with a human I.Q. of # -- found something marked Musee Nationale. It was the whole National Museum of the Republic of Mali, which had been put inside a mountain when the ancient wars became severe. Mali apparently was not a very important 'nation,' as they called those groupings, but it had the same language as France, and we were able to supply real material, almost everything that was needed, to restore some kind of a French civilization. China has been hard. The Chinesians survived longer than any other nation, and they did their own graverobbing. So we have found it impossible to reconstruct China before the age of space. We can't modify people into being Ancient Chinese." Rod stopped, thunderstruck. "Can I talk to you here?" C'mell listened with a faraway look on her face. "Not here. I feel the very weak sweep of a monitor across my mind now and then. In a couple of minutes you can. Let's hurry along." "I just thought," cried Rod, "of tiie most important question in all the worlds!" "Stop thinking it, then," said C'mell, "until we come to a safe place." Instead of going straight on through the big aisle between the forgotten crates and packages, she squeezed between two crates and made her way to the edge of the big underground storeroom. "That package," she said, "is stroon. They lost it. We could help ourselves to it if we wanted to, but we're afraid of it." Rod looked at the names on the package. It had been shipped by Roderick Frederick Ronald Arnold to Adaminaby Port and reconsigned to Earthport. "That's seventy-five generations ago, shipped from the Station of Doom. My farm. But I think it turns to poison if you leave it for more than two hundred years. Our own military people have some horrible uses for it, when invaders show up, but ordinary Norstrilians, when they find old stroon, always turn it in to the Commonwealth. We're afraid of it. Not that we often lose it. It's too valuable and we're too greedy, with a # per cent import duty on everything." C'mell led on. They unexpectedly passed a tiny robot, a lamp fixed to his head, who was seated between two enormous piles of books. He was apparently reading them one by one, because he had beside him a pile of notes larger in bulk than he was. He did not look up, nor did they interrupt him. At the wall, C'mell said, "Now do exactly what you're told. See the dust along the base of this crate?" "I see it," said Rod. "That must be left undisturbed. IP Now watch. I'm going ter jump from the top of this crate to the top of that one, without disturbing the dust Then I want yon to jump the same way and go exactly where I point -- without even thinking about it, if you can manage. I'll follow. Don't try to be polite or chivalrous, or you'll mess up the whole arrangement." Rod nodded. S he jumped to a case against the wall. Her red hair did not fly behind her, because she had tied it up in a turban before they started out, when she had obtained coveralls for each of them from the robotservants. They had looked like an ordinary couple of working c'people. Either she was very strong or the case was very light. Standing on the case, she tipped it very delicately, so that the pattern of dust around its base would be unchanged, save for microscopic examination. A blue glow came from beyond the case. With an odd, practised turn of the wrist she indicated that Rod should jump from his case to the tipped one, and from there into the area -- whatever it might be -- beyond the case. It seemed easy for him, but he wondered if she could support both his weight and hers on the case. He rememberer her order not to talk or think. He tried to think of the salmon steak he had eaten the day before. That should certainly be a good catthought, if a monitor happened to catch his mind at that moment! He jumped, teetered on the slanting top of the second packing case, and scrambled into a tiny doorway just big enough for him to crawl through. It was apparently designed for cables, pipes and maintenance, not for habitual human Use: it was too low to stand in. He scrambled forward. There was a slam. C'mell had jumped in after him, letting the case fall back into its old, apparently undisturbed position. She crawled up to him. "Keep going," she said. "Can we talk here?" "Of course. Do you want to? It'# not a very sociable place." "That question, that big questtion," said Rod. "I've got to ask you. You underpeople are aktng charge of people. If you're fixing up their new cultures for them, you're getting to be the masters of men!" "Yes," said C'mell and let the explosive affirmative hang m the air between them. He couldn't think of anything to say; it was his big bright idea for the day, and the fact that she already knew underpeople were becoming secret masters -- that was too much! She looked at his friendly face and said, more gently, "We underpeople have seen it coming for a long time. Some of the human people do, too. Especially the Lord Jestocost. He's no fool. And, Rod, you fit in." "I?" "Not as a person. As an economic change. As a source of unallocated power." "You mean, Cmell, you're after me, too? I can't believe it! I can recognize a pest or a nuisance or a robber. You don't seem like any of these. You're good, all the way through." His voice faltered. "I meant it this morning, C'mell, when I asked you to marry me." The delicacy of cat and the tenderness of woman combined in her voice as she answered, "I know you meant it" She stroked a lock of hair away from his forehead, in a caress as restrained as any touch could be. "But it's not for us. And I'm not using you myself, Rod. I want nothing for myself, but I want a good world for underpeople. And for people, too. For people, too! We cats loved you people long before we had brains. We've been your cats longer than anyone can remember. Do you think our loyalty to the human race would stop just because you changed our shapes and added a lot of thinking power? I love you. Rod, but I love people too. That's why Tm taking you to the Aitch Eye." "Can you tell me what that is -- now?" She laughed. "This place is safe. It's the Holy Insurgency. The secret government of the underpeople. This is a silly place to talk about it. Rod. You're going to meet the head of it, right now." "All of them?" Rod was thinking of the Chiefs of the Instrumentality. "It's not a them, it's a him. The R-telekelL Hie bird beneath the ground." "If there'a only (me, how (fid you choose him? Is he like the British Queen, whom we lost so long ago?" Cmell laughed. "We didn't choose him. He grew and now he leads us. You people took an eagle's egg and tried to make it into a Daimoni man. When the experiment failed, you threw the fetus out It lived. It's he. It'll be the strongest mind you've ever met Come on. This is no place to talk, and we're still talking." She started crawling down the horizontal shaft, waving at Rod to follow her. He followed, and as they crawled he called to her, "Cmell, atop a minute." S he stopped until he caught up with her. She thought that he might ask for a kiss, so worried and lonely did he look. She was ready to be kissed. He surprised her by saying, instead: "I can't smell, CmeiL Please, I'm so used to smelling that I miss it What does this place smell like#" Her eyes widened and then she laughed. "It mells like underground. Electricity burning the air. Animals somewhere far away, a lot of different smells of them. The old, old smell of man, almost gone. Engine oil and bad exhaust It smells like a headache. It smells like silence, like things untouched. There, is that it?" He nodded and they went m. At ftc cod of the horizontal Cmell tned and said, "All men die here. Come on!" Rod strned to follow and then IP stopped, "C'mell, are you discoordinated? Why should I die? There's no reason to." Her laughter was pure happiness. "Silly C'rod! You are a cat , cat enough to come where no man has passed for centuries. Come on. Watch out for those skeletons. They're a lot of them around here. We hate to kill real people, but there are some that we can't warn off in time." They emerged on a balcony, overlooking and even more enormous storeroom than the one before. This had thousands more boxes in it. C'mell paid no attention to it. She went to the end of the balcony and raced down a slender steel ladder. "More junk from the past!" she said, anticipating Rod's comment. "People have forgotten it up above; we mess around in it." Though he could not smell the air, at this depth it felt thick, heavy, immobile. Cornell did not slow down. She threaded her way through the junk and treasures on the floor as though she were an acrobat. On the far ride of the old room she stopped. Take one of these," she commanded. They looked like enormous umbrellas, like the pictures his computer had showed him. These seemed oddly large, compared to the ones in the pictures. He looked around for rain. Cmell did not understand his suptekms. "The shaft," she said, "has no magnetic controls, no updraft of air. It's just a shaft twelve meters in diameter. These are parachutes. We jump into the shaft with them and then we float straight down, four kilometers. It's close to the Moho." Since he did not pick up one of the big umbrellas, she handed him one. It was clumsy to hold but surprisingly light He blinked at her. "How will we ever get out?" "One of the bird-men will fly us up the shaft. It's hard work, but they can do it. Be sure to hook that thing to your belt. It's a long slow time falling, and we won't be able to talk on the way. And it's terribly dark, too." He complied. She opened a big door, beyond which there was the feel of nothing. She gave him a wave, partially opened her "umbrella", stepped over the edge of the door and vanished. He looked over the edge himself. There was nothing to be seen. Nothing of Cmell, no sound except for the slippage of air and an occasional mechanical whisper of metal against metal. He supposed that must bo the rib-tips of the umbrella touching the metallic edge of the shaft as she fefl. He sighed. Norstrilia was safe and quiet compared to this. He opened his umbrella too. Acting on an odd premonition, he took his little hiering-spieking shell out of his ear and put it carefully in his coverall pocket. This was his telepathic amplifier, something like an ancient hearing aid. That act saved his life. ns R od McBan remembered falling and falling. He shouted into the wet adhesive darkness, but there was no reply. He thought of cutting himself loose from his big umbrella and letting himself drop to the death 'below him, but then he thought of Cmell and he knew his body would drop upon her like a bomb. He wondered about his desperation, but could not understand it. (Only later did he find out that he was passing telepathic suicide screens which the underpeople had set up, screens fitted to the human mind, designed to dredge filth and despair from the paleocortex, the smell-bite-mate sequence of the noseguided animals who first walked Earth. But Rod was cat enough, just barely cat enough, and he was also telepathically subnormal, so that the screens did not do to him what they would have done to any normal man of Earth -- delivered a twisted dead body at the bottom. No man had ever gotten that far, but the underpeople were resolved that none ever should.) Rod twisted in his harness and at last he fainted. He awakened in a relatively small room, enormous by Earth standards but still much smaller than the storerooms which he had passed through on the way down. The lights were bright. He suspected that the room stank but he could not prove it with his smell gone. A man was speaking: "The Forbidden Word is never given unless the man who does not know it plainly asks for it." There was a chorus of voices sighing, "We remember. We remember what we remember." The speaker was almost a giant, thin and pale. His face was the face of a dead saint, white as alabaster, with glowing eyes. His body was that of man and bird both, man from the hips up, except that human hands grew out of the elbows of enormous, clean white wings. From the hips down to his legs were birdlegs, ending in horny, almost translucent bird-feet which stood steadily on the ground. "I am sorry, mister and owner McBan, that you took that risk. I was misinformed. You are a good cat on the outside but still completely a human man on the inside. Our safety devices bruised your mind and they might have killed you." Rod stared at the man as he stumbled to his feet. He saw that Cmell was one of the people helping him. When he was erect, someone handed him a beaker of very cold water. He drank it thirstily. It was hot down here -- hot, stuffy, and with the feel of big engines nearby. "I," said the great bird-man, "am E-telekeli." He pronounced it Eetelly-kelly. "You are the first human being in all of time to see me in the flesh." "Blessed, blessed, blessed, fourfold blessed is the name of our leader, our father, our brother, our son the E-telekeli," chorused the underpeople. lie IF #t# Rod looked around There was every kind of underperson imaginable here, including several that he had never even thought of. One was a head on a shelf, with no apparent body. When he looked, somewhat shocked, directly at the head, its face smiled and one eye closed in a deliberate wink. The E-telekeli followed his glance. "Do not let us shock you. Some of us are normal, but many of us down here are the discards of men's laboratories. This is my son, who has come here to meet you this day." A tall, very pale young man with no feathers stood up at this point. He was stark naked and completely unembarrassed. He held out a friendly hand to Rod. Rod was sure he had never seen the young man before. The young man sensed Rod's hesitation and said, "I am the E-ikasus." "Blessed, blessed, threefold blessed is the name of our leader-to-be, the Yeekasoose!" chanted the underpeople. Something about the scene caught Rod's rough Norstrilian humor. He spoke to the great underman as he would have spoken to another mister-and-owner back home, friendlily but bluntly. "Glad you welcome me, sir!" "Glad, glad, glad is the stranger from beyond the stars!" sang the chorus. "Can't you make them shut up?" asked Rod. " 'Shut up, shut up, shut up,' says the stranger from the starsl" chorused the group. T he E-telekeli did not exactly laugh, but his smile was not pure benevolence. "We can disregard them and talk, or I can blank out your mind everytlme they repeat what we say. This is a sort of court ceremony." Rod glanced around. "I'm in your power already," said he, "so it won't matter if you mess around with my mind. Blank them out." The E-telekeli stirred the ah in front of him as though he were writing a mathematical equation with his finger. Rod's eyes followed the finger and he suddenly felt the room quiet down. "Come over here and sit down," said the E-telekeli. Rod followed. "What do you want?" he asked as he followed. The E-telekeli did not even turn around to answer. He merely spoke while walking ahead. "Your money, mister and owner McBan. Almost all of your money." Rod stopped walking. He heard himself laughing wildly. "Money? You? Here? What could you possibly do with R?" "That," said die E-telekeH, "is why you should sit down." "Do sit," said Cmell, who had followed. Rod sat down. "We are afraid that Man himself will die and leave us alone in the universe. We need Man, and there is still an immensity of time before we all pour into a common destiny. People have always assumed that the end of things is around the corner, and we have the promise of IF the First Forbidden One that this will be so. But it could be hundreds of thousands of years. Maybe millions. People are scattered, mister McBan, so that no weapon will ever kill them all on all planets. But no matter how scattered they are, they are still haunted by themselves. They reach a point of development and then they stop." "Yes," said Rod, reaching for a carafe of water and helping himself to another drink. "But it's a long way from the philosophy of the universe down to my money. We have plenty of barmy swarmy talk in Old North Australia, but I never heard of anybody asking for another citizen's money, right off the bat." The eyes of the E-telekeli glowed like cold fire but Rod knew that this was no hynosis, no trick being played upon himself. It was the sheer force of the personality burning outward from the birdman. "Listen carefully, mister McBan. We are the creatures of man. You are gods to us. You have made us into people who talk, who worry, who think, who love, who die. Most of our races were the friends of man before we became underpeople. Like Cornell. How many cats have served and loved man, and for how long? How many cattle have worked for men, been eaten by men, been milked by men across the ages, and have stffl followed where men went? Even to the stars. And dogs. I do not have to tell you about the love of dogs for men. We call ourselves the Holy Insurgency because we are rebels. We are a government We are a power almost as big as the Instrumentality. Why do you think Teadrinker did not catch you when you arrived?" "Who is Teadrinker?" "An official who wanted to kidnap you. He failed because his underm an reported to me. We love you. Rod, not because you are a rich Norstrilian, but because it is our faith to love the mankind which created us." "This is a long slow wicket for my money," said Rod. "Come to the point, sir " T lie E-telekeli smiled with sweetness and sadness. Rod immediately knew that it was his own denseness which made the bird-man sad "nd patient. For the very first time he began to accept the feeling that this person might actually be the superior of any human. "I'm sorry," said Rod. "I haven't had a minute to enjoy my money since I got it. People have been telling me that everybody is after it. I'm beginning to think that I shall do nothing but run the rest of my life..." The E-telekeli smiled happily, the way a teacher smiles when a student has suddenly turned in a spectacular performance. "Correct. You have learned a lot. I am offering you something more -- the chance to do enormous good. Have you ever heard of Foundations?" Rod frowned. "The bottoms of buildings?" "No. Institutions. From the very ancient past." Rod shook his head. He hadn't. "If a gift was big enough, it endured and kept on giving, until the culture in which it was set had fallen. If you took most of your money and gave it to some good, wise men, it could be spent over and over again to improve the race of man. We need that. Better men will give us better lives. Do you think that we don't know how pilots and pinlighters have sometimes died, saving their cats in space?" "Or how they kill underpeople without a thought?" countered Rod. "Or humiliate them without noticing that they do it It seems to me that you must have some self-interest  n "I do. Some. But not so much as you think. Men are evil when they are frightened or bored. They are good when they are happy and busy. I want you to give your money to provide games, sports, competitions, shows, music -- and a chance for honest hatred." "Hatred?" said Rod. "I was beginning to think that I had found a Believer bird... somebody who mouthed old magic." "We're not ending time," said the great bird-man. "We are just altering the material conditions of man's situation for the present historical period. We want to steer mankind away from tragedy and self-defeat. Though the cliffs crumble, we want man to remain. Do you know Swinburne?" "Where is it?" said Rod. "It's not a place. It's a poet, before the age of space. Listen." Till the slow sea rise and the sheer cliff crumble, Till terrace and meadow the deep gulfs drink, Till the strength of the waves of the high tide crumble The fields that lessen, the rocks that shrink, Here now in his triumph where all things falter, Stretched out on the spoils that his own hand spread. As a god self-slain on hts own strange altar, Death lies dead. "Do you agree with that?" "It sounds nice, but I don't understand it," said Rod. "Please, sir, I'm tireder than I thought. And I have only this one day with C'mell. Can I finish the business with you and have a little time with her?" The great underman lifted his arms. His wings spread like a canopy over Rod. "So be it!" he said, and the words rang out like great song. Rod could see the lips of the underpeople chorusing, but he did not notice the sound. "I offer you a tangible bargain. Tell me if you find I read your mind correctly." Rod nodded, somewhat in awe. "You want your money, but you do not want it. You will keep one money, which will leave you the richest man in Old North Australia for the rest of a very long life. The rest you will give to a foundation which will teach men to hate easily and lightly, as in a game, not sickly and wearily, as in habit. The trustees will be Lords of the Instrumentality whom I know, such as IF Jestocost, Crudelta, the Lady Johanna Gnade." "And what do I get?" "Your heart's desire." The beautiful wise pale face stared down at Rod like a father seeking to fathom the puzzlement of his own child. Rod was a little afraid of the face, but he confided in it, too. "I want too much. I can't have it all." "I'll tell you what you want. First, you want to be home right now, and all the trouble done with. I can start you back to the Station of Doom this very night." "But I want to see Earth!" "Come back, when you are older and wiser. Some day. See what your money has done." "Well -- " said Rod. "You want C'mell." The bland wise white face showed no embarrassment, no anger, no condescension. "You shall have her, in a linked dream, her mind to yours, for a happy subjective time of about a thousand years. You will live through all the happy things that you might have done together if you had stayed here and become a c'man. You will see your kittenchildren flourish, grow old and die. That will take about one half-hour." "It's just a dream," said Rod. "You want to take megacredits from me and give me a dreamy!" "With two minds? Two living, accelerated minds , thinking into each other? Have you ever heard of that?" "No," said Rod. "Do you trust me?" said the Etelekeli. Rod stared at the bird-man inquisitively and a great weight fell from him. He did trust this creature, more than he had ever trusted the father who did not want him, the mother who gave him up, the neighbors who looked at him and were kind. He sighed, "I trust you." "I also," added the E-telekeli, "will take care of all the little incidentals through my own network and I will leave the memory of them in your mind. If you trust me that should be enough. You get home, safe. You are protected, off Norstrilia, into which I rarely reach, for as long as you live. You have a separate life right now with C'mell and you will remember most of it. In return, you go to the wall and transfer your fortune, minus one-half of Rod McBan." Rod did not see that the underpeople thronged around him like worshippers. He had to stop when a very pale, tall girl took his hand and held it to her cheek. "You may not be the promised One, but you are a great and good man. We can take nothing from you. We can only ask. That is the teaching of Joan. And you have given." "Who are you?" said Rod in a frightened voice, thinking that she might be some lost human girl whom the underpeople had abducted to the guts of the Earth. "E-lamelanie, daughter of the Etelekeli." Rod stared at her and went to the wall. He pushed a routine sort of button. What a place to find it! "The Lord Jestocost," he called. "McBan speaking. No, you fool, I own this system." A handsome, polished plumpish man appeared on the screen. This was the Lord Jestocost himself, one of the governing Instrumentality. "If I guess right," said the strangeman, "you are the first human being ever to get into the depths. Can I serve you, mister and owner McBan?" '! "Take a note -- " said the Etelekeli, out of sight of the machine, beside Rod. Rod repeated it. The Lord Jestocost called witnesses at his end. I t was a long dictation, but at last the conveyance was finished. Only at one point did Rod balk. When they tried to call it the McBan Foundation, he said, "Just call it the One Hundred and Fifty Fund." "One Hundred and Fifty?" asked Jestocost. "For my father. It's his number in our family. I'm to-the-hundredand-fifty-first. He was before me. Don't explain the number. Just use it." "All clear," said Jestocost. "Now we have to get notaries and official witnesses to veridicate our imprints of your eyes, hand and brain. Ask the Person with you to give you a mask, so that the cat-man face will not upset the witnesses. Where is this machine you are using supposed to be located? I know perfectly well where I think it is." "At the foot of Alpha Ralpha, in a forgotten market," and the Etelekeli. "Your servicemen will find it there tomorrow when they come to check the authenticity of the machine." He still stood out of line of the machine, so that Jestocost could hear him but not see him. "I know the voice," said Jestocost. "It comes to me as in a real dream. But I shall not ask to see file face." "Your friend down here has gone where only underpeople go," said the E-telekeli, "and we are disposing of his fate in more ways than one, my lord. Subject to your gracious approval." "My approval does not seem to have been needed much," snorted Jestocost, with a little laugh. "I would like to talk to you. Do you have any intelligent underperson near you?" "I can call Cmell. She's always somewhere around." "This time, my lord, you cannot She's here." "There? With you ? I never knew she went there." The amazement showed on the face of the Lord Jestocost. "She is here, nevertheless. Do you have some other underperson?" Rod felt like a dummy, standing in the visiphone while the two voices, unseen by one another, talked past him. But he felt, very truly, that they both wished him well. He was almost nervous in anticipation of the strange happiness which had been offered to him and Cmell, but he was a respectful enough young man to wait until the great ones got through their business. IP "Wait a moment," said Jestocost. On the screen, in the depths, Rod could see the Lord of the Instrumentality work the controls of other, secondary screens. A moment later Jestocost answered: "B'dank is here. He will enter the room in a few minutes." "Twenty minutes from now, my sir and lord, will you hold hands with your servant B'dank as you once did with C'mell? I have the problem of this young man and his return. There are things which you do not know, and I would rather not put them on the wires." Jestocost hesitated only for the slightest of moments. "Good, then," he laughed. "I might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb." The E-telekeli stood aside. Someone handed Rod a mask which hid his cat-man features and still left his eyes and hands exposed. The brainprint was gotten through the eyes. The recordings were made. Rod went back to the bench and table. He helped himself to another drink of water from the carafe. Someone threw a wreath of fresh flowers around his Shoulders. Fresh flowers! In such a place... he wondered. Three rather pretty undergirls, two of them of cat origin and one of them derived from dogs, were leading a freshly dressed C'mell toward him. She wore the simplest and most modest of all possible white dresses. Her waist was cinched by a broad golden belt. She laughed, stopped laughing and then blushed as they led her to Rod. Two seats were arranged on the bench. Cushions were disposed so that both of them would be comfortable. Silky metallic caps used in surgeries, were fitted on their heads. Rod felt his sense of smell explode within his brain; it came alive richly and suddenly. He took C'mell by the hand and began walking through the immemorial Earth forest, with a temple older than time shining in the clear soft light cast by Earth's old moon. He knew that he was already dreaming. C'mell caught his thought and said, "Rod, my master and lover, this is a dream. But I am in it with you..." XI W ho can measure a thousand years of happy dreaming -- the travels , the hunts, the picnics, the visits to forgotten and empty cities, the discovery of beautiful views and strange places? And the love, and the sharing, and the reflection of everything wonderful and strange by two separate , distinct and utterly harmonious personalities. C'mell the c'girl and C'roderick the c'man; they seemed happily doomed to be with one another. Who can live whole centuries of real bliss and then report it in minutes? Who can tell the full tale of such real lives -- happiness , quarrels, reconciliations , problems ,... solutions and always sharing, happiness, and more sharing... ? W hen they awakened Rod very gently, they let C'mell sleep on. He looked down at himself and expected to find himself old. But he was a young man still, in the deep forgotten underground of the E-telekeli, and he could not even smell. He reached for the thousand wonderful years as he watched C'mell, young again, lying on the bench, but the dream-years had tarted fading even as he reached for them. Rod stumbled on his feet. They led him to a chair. The E-telekeli sat in an adjacent chair, at the same table. He seemed weary. "My mister and owner McBan, I monitored your dream sharing, just to make sure it stayed in the right general direction. I hope you are satisfied." Rod nodded, very slowly, and reached for the carafe of water, which someone had re-filled while he slept. Slept, and lived, and dreamed, and grew old, and woke. "While you slept, mister McBan," said the great E-man, "I had a telepathic conference with the Lord Jestocost, who has been your friend, even though you do not know him. You have heard of the new automatic planoform ships." "They are experimental," said Rod. "So they are," said the E-tdekdi, "but perfectly safe. And the best 'automatic' pilots are not automatic at all. They have snake-men pilots. My pilots. They can outperform any pilots of the Instrumentality." "Of course," said Rod, "because they are dead." "No more dead than I," laughed the white calm bird of the underground. "I put them in cataleptic trances, with the help of my son the doctor E-ikasus. On the ships they wake up. One of them can take you to Norstrilia in a single long fast jump. And my son can work on you right here. We have a good medical workshop in one of those rooms. It will seem like a single night to you, though it will be several days in objective time. If you say goodbye to me now, and if you are ready to go, you will wake up in orbit just outside the Old North Australian subspace net. I have no wish for one of my underpeople to tear himself to pieces if he meets Mother Hitton's dreadful little kittens, whatever they may be. Do you happen to know?" "I don't know," said Rod quickly, "and if I. did, I couldn't tell you. It's the Queen's secret. " "The Queen?" "The Absent Queen. We use it to mean the Commonwealth government. Anyhow, mister bird, I can't go now. I've got to go back up to the surface of Earth. And I want my stamp that the catmaster gave me. And the books." "Do you trust me, mister and owner McBan?" The white giant rose to his feet; his eyes shone like fire. The underpeople spontaneously chorused, "Put your trust in the joyful lawful, put your trust in the loyal-awful bright blank power of the under-bird!" "I've trusted you with my life and my fortune, so far," said Rod, a little sullenly, "but you're not going to make me go. No matter how much I want to get home. And V I have an old enemy a home that I want to help. Houghton Syme the Hon. Sec. There might be something on Old Earth which I could take back to him." M T think you can trust me a little further," said the E-telekeli. "Would it solve the problem of the Hon. Sec. if you gave him a dream-share with someone he loved, to make up his having a short life?" "I don't know. Maybe." T can," said the master of underpeople, "have h is prescription made up. It will have to be mixed with plasma from his blood before he takes it. It would be good for about three thousand years of subjective life. We have never let this out of our own undercity before, but you are the Friend of Earth, and you shall have it." Rod tried to stammer his thanks. The white giant took Rod by the arm and led him back to the visiphone, still trembling with the connection for Earth's surface, many kilometers above. Rod trembled. Odd shards of dream-memory, coming out of his recently dreamed "life" with C'mell, pulsed through his mind. The bird-giant showed him the surface of Earth by borrowing a spying eye through the visiphone. They swooped through the streets of earth one last time. Rod saw his rare postage stamps -- Cape triangles, they were, printed before the beginning of time -- being packed carefully into a metal box which had his formal address printed on it, very proper indeed: Roderick Frederick Ronald "The Station of Doom" c-o Any Lawful Entry-port Planet of Old North Australia A t last the E-telekeli sighed and Rod sighed with him. "Enough?" asked the pale birdgiant. "Enough," said Rod. He started to leave the visiphone and then stopped. Rod made no move to leave. He had turned off the screen but he just stood there. "Something else?" said the Etelekeli. "She's all right," said the lord of the underworld. "She expects nothing from you. She's a good underperson." " want to do something for her." "There's nothing she wants. She is happy. You do not need to meddle." "She won't be a girlygirl forever," Rod insisted. "You underpeople get old. I don't know how you manage without stroon." "Neither do I," said the E-telekeli. "I just happen to have long life. But you're right about her. She will age soon enough, by your kind of time." "I'd like to buy the restaurant for her, the one the bear-man has, and let it become a sort of meeting place open to people and underpeople. She could give it the romantic and interesting touch so that k could be  success." "A wonderful idea. A perfect project for your Foundation," smiled the E-telekeli. "It shall be done." The bird-man went on: "Now, if you are ready, we will put you to sleep, my son E-ikasus will change you out of your cat body and you will wake in orbit around your home." "C'mell? Can you wake her up so I can say goodbye after that thousand years?" The master of the underworld took Rod gently by the arm and walked him across the huge underground room, talking as they went. "Would you want to have another goodbye, after that thousand years she remembers with you, if you were she? Let her be. It is kinder this way. You are human. You can afford to be rich with kindness. It is one of the best traits which you human people have." Rod stopped. "Do you have a recorder of some kind, then? She welcomed me to Earth wRh a wonderful little song about "high birds crying and I want to leave one of our Norstrilian songs for her." "Sing anything," said the E-telekeli, "and the chorus of my attendants will remember it as long as they live. The others would appreciate it too." Rod looked around at the underpeople who had followed them. For a moment he was embarrassed at singing to all of them, but when he saw their warm, adoring smiles, he was at ease with them. "Remember this, then, and be sure to sing it to C'mell for me, when she awakens." He lifted his voice a little and sang. Ron where the ram Is dancing, prancing! Listen where the ewe Is greeting, bleating. Rush where the lambs are running, funning. Watch where the stroon is flowing, growing. See how the men are reaping, heaping Wealth for their world! Look where the hiUs are dipping, ripping. Sit where the air is frying, drying. Go where the clouds are pacing, racing. Stand where the wealth is gleam ing, teeming. Shout to the top of the singing ringing Norstrilian power and pride! The chorus sang it back at him with a wealth and richness which he had never heard in the little song before. "And now," said the E-telekeli, "the blessing of the First Forbidden One be upon you." The giant bowed a little and kissed Rod McBan on the forehead. Rod thought it strange and started to speak, but the eyes were upon him . Eyes -- like twin fires. Fire -- like friendship and like warmth, like a welcome and a farewell. Eyes -- which became a single fire. He awakened only when he was in orbit around the planet of Old North Australia. T he descent was easy. The ship had a viewer. The pilot s aid very little. He put Rod down in the Station of Doom, a few hundred meters from his own door. He left two heavy packages. An Old North Australian patrol ship hovered overhead and the air hummed with danger while Norstrilian police floated to the ground and made sure that no one besides Rod McBan got off. The Earth ship whispered and was gone. 'Til give you a hand, mister," said one of the police. He clutched Rod with one mechanical claw of his omithopter, caught the two packages in the other, and flung his machine into the air with a single beat of the giant wings. They coasted into the yard. The wings tipped up, Rod and his packages were deposited deftly and the machine flapped away back to its distant base in silence. There was nobody there. He knew that Aunt Doris would come soon. And somebody else. His own sweetheart, on his own farm -- Lavinia. Lavinia! Here, now, on this dear poor dry earth, he knew how much Lavinia suited him. Now he could spiek, he could hier! It was strange. Yesterday -- or was it yesterday, for it felt like yesterday? -- he had fek very young indeed. He seemed to know in his deepest mind that Cmell had never been more than nine-tenths his, and that other tenth -- the most valuable and beautiful and most secret tenth of her life -- was forever given to some other man or underman who he would never know. He felt that Cmell would never give her heart again. And yet he kept for her a special kind of tenderness, which would never recur. It was not marriage which they had had, but it was pure romance. But here, here waited home itself, and love. Lavinia was in it, dear Lavinia with her mad lost father and her kindness to a Rod who had not let much kindness into his life. Suddenly, the words of an old poem rose unbidden to his mind: Ever. Never. Forever. Three words. The lever Of life upon time. Never, forever, ever I He spieked. He spieked very loud, "Lavinia!" Beyond the hill the cry came back, right into his mind, "Rod, Rod! Oh, Rod! Rod? "Yes," he spieked. "Don't run. I'm home." He felt her mind coming near, though she must have been beyond one of the nearby hills. When he touched minds with Lavinia, he knew that this was her ground, and his too. Nor for them the wet wonders of Earth, the golden-haired beauties of C'mell and Earth people! He knew without doubt that Lavinia would love and recognize the new Rod as she had loved the old. He waited very quietly and then he laughed to himself under the gray nearby friendly sky of Norstrilia. He had momentarily the childish impulse to rush across the hills of his home and to kiss his own computer. He waited for Lavinia instead. The Place Where Headers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: I have just finished the November , and it prompted me to write my first letter to a magazine. Firstly, I am amazed how a magazine such as If could improve as much as it has in as little time as it has. There is not one point of the mag which has not increased in interest. Secondly, I suggest you have Keith Laumer sign an eighty-year contract. The more he writes, the better he gets, and he's writing more and more these days. The Retief series can't be beat as space opera and his singles in Worlds of Tomorrow are among the best I've seen in years. Thirdly, I just finished The Reefs of Space in If and All We Mars men in Worlds of Tomorrow and they have strengthened my opinion of serial stories. In my opinion there is nothing more suspenseful than a good serial, and these are two of the best I've ever read. Fourthly, Worlds of Tomorrow has proved to be beyond my wildest expectations. Every one of these stories is from good to excellent. I'm quite pleased over the resumption of Jack Sharkey's "contact" series. If only they could all be as good as The Creature Inside. Fifthly, Jonathan Brand. Hear, hear! I'd like to see more by this fellow. Finally, how about having an annual contest for amateur writers, the five best stories appearing throughout the following year in one of the Galaxy publications, with criticism being offered to the contestants? The chance for recognition in one of the top sf mags of the business could attract a lot of new talent. -- Sydney Silverstein, # Thouron Avenue, Philadelphia #, Pennsylvania. # The National Fantasy Fan Federation has such a contest fin which we cooperate), except that publication in a professional magazine is IF not guaranteed to the winners -- although chances are good that at least one or two of them will be accepted. For that matter, every issue we publish at least one "first" story; this issue's is The Final Equation, by Jack Smith. -- Editor .    Dear Editor: Congratulations on your January issue. It was undoubtedly the best I've seen this year (the first, too). The cover was good -- very distinctive -- except that I don't think much of your habit of blurbing your novels on the cover and putting features on the spine. It makes the mag seem (even) pulpier than it is. More Van Vogt, more Van Vogt, more Van Vogt! By the way, what about his Haunted Atoms which was in Authentic in #I and SF Digest in #? I wonder if some of your readers could help me with a little question I have. Sometime between # and # or thereabouts I read my first sf magazine. Now I wonder what it was. All I remember about it was two of the stories. The first one was about this alien spaceship. It dropped this bright-yellow blob on the Earth, and the blob grew until it covered the entire planet except for one island with a man on it. It turned out that the blob had transformed all the people of Earth into sort of monsters. The other story was about an alien who is spotted by hunters as he gets out of his ship. The alien shoots one of them and he becomes encased in jelly-like substance. The other hunters chase the alien into a village, where he is rammed by a car and finally killed. The alien has been clutching a bag to his side, and just as the villagers are about to open it, the hunter who was shot turns up feeling ten years younger. Then the villagers discover that in the bag was a bag of grass seed and a Holy Bible. Does anyone know what magazine this was? -- Robert Olsen, # Buoy, Orange, Califoria. # More Van Vogt? Coming up in the next issue ! -- Editor.     Dear Editor: Jim Maugham's letter (IF, January '#) on the subject of letter columns and S-F reader motivation, calls up a number of thoughts: If a reader really has reforming instincts he ought to write the kind of letters he wants to see. If they are good enough they'll be published and answered by other readers. It's mainly up to the people who write the letters to determine the character of Hue and Cry or any other forum. The readers want hot discussions, new ideas, sweeping concepts, unique philosophies -- or so they say. Frankly, most S-F readers don't seem to care for new thoughts any more than anyone else. In actual point of fact, they read primarily for escape, they react in a mild and passive manner to the supposed mental stimulation of the stories, and their comments are limited to expressions of generalized approval and petty dislkes. J. R. Parks, #I #th Avenue, Rocheve Dear Editor: I feel that If, Galaxy and Worlds of Tomorrow are probably the best science-fiction publications on the market today. But the trouble with your magazine, and all the others too, is that you do not report the news of what is going on in the world of science-fiction fandom. You never report on science-fiction organizations, conventions, or even review fanzines. I would appreciate it if you would please print this letter in your magazine so the readers may decide and Comment on this. Thank you very much. -- Guy Guden, # South Malden, Fullerton, California.    Dear Editor: Gaughan's cover for the November If was wonderful. A few like this and he might win the Hugo, instead of just getting nominated. That drawing he had on page ft, though. Is it so very needful that every square inch be full of marks? I shouldn't think so. The Governor of Glave was one of the best Retief so far, Muck Man was pretty good, A Better Mousetrap was all right, but I would have liked to seen more from Brunner. Knight's story was a bit disappointing, however it had fts high points, too. I wouldn't say that Long Day in Court is the best "first" you have had as yet, for you have had some very god ones. But I will say it was one of the best, and Fm happy to see that Mr. Brand has more stories yet to be published. By the way, have any of your other firsts sold anything else to you? -- Hank Luttrell, Rt. #-# Barrett Sta. Rd., Kirkwood #, Missouri.  Yep. Gary Wright (he wrote Captain of the Kali) has a new one coming up soon, and several others are in the offing. -- Editor.  a   Dear Editor: I enjoy IF very much. I have not been reading it long, but already it is my favorite magazine. I especially liked the Crossword Puzzle. My only regret about If is that I enjoy it so much and it only comes out once every two months. -- Drake Maynard, # Columbine Lane, Burlington, North Carolina.    Dear Editor: I was disappointed in the ending of your serial, The Reefs of Space . The ending was contrived, unconvincing, glib and much too fast I had the impression that the writers, having written our hero (Ryeland) and themselves into a corner, were staking work needed to write a convincing ending to the story. But they are professionals, and Fm used to seeing professional work from them. I did, for ## of the story; but the ending left me unbelieving. Back to your typewriters, boys, and do your homework ! -- Michael N. TforsteLa, # East #th Street, Brooklyn #, New York. # If that's all that's w or r yi ng you -- starting next issue, we can take care of it! That's right: Starting with the July issue, If is monthly. And what an issue July will be! A. E. Van Vogt's The SBkie -- the boginning of Robert A. Heinlein's Farnham's Freehold -- and coming up soon thereafter a whole new batch of Retief stories. Doe Smith's fourth and greatest Skylark story, Skylark DuJQuesne... and much more. Things are looking very definitely and conspicuously up I -- Editor . (effective with July issue) brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delay -- send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His great new novel, Farnham's Freehold, takes you into a time where humanity has done its best to destroy itself -- and the survivors have built themselves a strange new life! The Silkie -- the story of a man whose heritage and training transcend humanity T a creature whose one mission is to protect the human race, though he is no longer a part of it! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #.  New  Renewal Name Address City State Zip No. (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! Seated, #. to r.: Bennett Cerf, Faith Baldwin, Bergen Evans, Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff Standing: Mark Wiseman, Max Shulman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith, Rod Serling Photo by Philippe Halsman # famous authors start a new kind of writing school If you have writing talent worth developing, here's an opportunity never before available: Twelve of America's most famous authors have created a school of professional writing to help you develop your skill, talent and craftsmanship... and to pass on to you their secrets of achieving success and recognition. This unique home-training program is supervised by Rod Serling, winner of five Emmys for TV writing; Pulitzer Prize historian Bruce Catton; best-selling novelist Faith man; publisher-columnist Bennett Cerf; famed sportswriter Red Smith; Rudolf Flesch, top authority on readable writing; noted language expert Prof. Bergen Evans; famous mystery novelist Mignon G. Eberhart; J. D. Ratcliff, called by Time "America's No. I craftsman in the field of non-fiction'; and top ad men John Caples and Mark Wiseman. These famous authors have developed q remarkable series of textbooks, lessons and writing assignments that present -- in a clear and stimulating way -- what they have learned in their long, hard climb to the top. The School's instructors are themselves professional writers. Under the supervision of the # Famous Writers, these instructors work with students by mail, just as magazine and book editors work with many established authors. And they spend up to several hours on each assignment completed by a student... revising, correcting, and advising. The Famous Writers School is less than three years old. Its first students are not due to graduate until later this year. Yet, many have sold their writings to such varied publications as The Reader's Digest, Redbook, Popular Science, True Story. To select people with writing talent worth developing, the # Famous Writers have designed a revealing Talent Test. The coupon will bring you a copy, along with a brochure about the School. Your completed Test will be graded without charge or obligation by one of the School's instructors. If your Test indicates writing talent, you are then eligible to enroll in the School. You are, however, under absolutely no obligation to do so. Famous Writers School hpt. :!:!. WViiMiri. Connecticut I am interested in finding out whether I have writing talent worth developing. Please mail me, without obligation, the Famous Writers Talent Test. Mr. Mrs Age Miss Street City Zone... County State The School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. r.,w Y The Great New Science-Fiction Novel U (effective vith July issue) I brings you the finest in science fiction Don't cielay -- send in your subscription order today IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His great new novel, Farnham's Freehold, takes you into a time where humanity has done its best to destroy itself -- and the survivors have built themselves a strange new life! The Silkie -- the story of a man whose heritage and training transcend humanity -- a creature whose one mission is to protect the human race, though he is no longer a part of it! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! r Mi  OM OB  W IB Hi MV HBi I IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #.  New  Renewal Name Address City State Zip No (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! Fredenk Pohl, Editor .  Sol Cohon, Publisher David Perfon, Production Manager Dave Geller, Assoc, IF published monihly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Gufnn, President, Vol #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. Ail material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelopes. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited materitil. All stories are fiction, and ony similarity between character and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  BUftrki N OW that IF has gone monthly, we start what we sincerely hope -- and believe -- will be the finest equence of serials, novelettes, complete short novels and short stories the magazine has ever known! To begin with, take a look at this issue's contents page. A brand-new Robert A. Heinlein and a complete A. E. Van Vogt -- there's a lineup you haven't seen anywhere for a good many years. Next on the heels of . the Heinlein serial, we have a Keith Laumer, The Hounds of Hell. And after that another three-part serial, this one Doc Smith's final, mightiest Skylark story. Skylark DuQuesne. And in between and all around them, the greatest collection of shorts and novelettes and features we can find. We haven't spent much time in these pages in telling you what we were trying to do with IF -- figuring you could See for yourself what we were doing, after all. But by now we hop# it has become clear that IF is fifling the gap in the science-fiction qectrum that has unaccountably been vacated for the past dozen-odd years. Adventure. Excitement. Drama. Color. Not hack pulp-writing or gory comic-strip blood and thunder, but the sort of story that attracted most of us to science fiction in the first place. In order to do this, we have had to go after all the old-time masters and try to lure them back into the fold... and, at the same time, try to develop new ones. As you have seen, in every issue for the past couple of years we have made it a point to publish at least one story by a brand-new, never-before-inprint writer. (This issue, for example, we bring you a wild and wonderful mathematical delight by Norman Kagan, a graduate student in one of New York's universities.) We think this is beginning to pay off for all of us -- and hope you feel the same! O ne last thing: In order to get the present big chunk of fiction in this issue, we had to scrimp on the pages for features -- which meant eliminating our letter column. Hue and Cry. But it will be back... and don't let its temporary absence keep you from sending in your letters of comment. We need them! were Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man otf woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves ? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philoscher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrudans. The Roskrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. "The Mas of Life" -- A non(trofic organizatiofiv Address : Sctthtt X.Y.T. San Jose, California, U.S.A. Please send me the fret book. The Mastery of Life which explains how I may learn to use my faculues and powers of mind. IF  Serial Iff the wreck of the world they knew they found a life stranger than any they dared dreamt i I iiTt's not a hearing aid," Hubert X Farnham explained. "It's a radio, tuned to the emergency frequency." Barbara Wells stopped with a bite halfway to her mouth. "Mr. Farnham! You think they are going to attack?" Her host shrugged. "The Kremlin doesn't let me in on its secrets." His son said, "Dad, quit scaring the ladies. Mrs. Wells -- " "Call me 'Barbara.' I'm going to ask the court to let me drop the 'Mrs.' " "You don't need permission." "Watch it. Barb," his sister Karen said. "Free advice is expensive." "Shaddap. Barbara, with all respect to my worthy father, he sees spooks. There is not going to be a war." "I hope you're right," Barbara Wells said soberly. "Why do you think so?" "Because the communists are realists. They never risk a war that would hurt them, even if they could win. So they won't risk one they can't win." "Then I wish," his mother said, "that they would stop having these dreadful crises. Cuba. All that fuss about Berlin -- as if anybody cared! And now this. It makes a person nervous. Joseph!" "Yes, ma'am?" "You fetch me coffee. And brandy. Cafe royale." "Yes, ma'am." The houseboy, a young Negro, removed her plate, barely touched. Young Farnham said, "Dad, it's not these phony crises that has Mother upset; it's the panicky way you behave. You must stop it." "No." "You must! Mother didn't eat her dinner... and all because of that silly button in your ear. You can't -- " "Drop it, Duke." "Sir?" "When you moved into your own apartment, we agreed to live as friends. As my friend your opinions are welcome. But that does not make you free to interfere between your mother -- my wife -- and myself." His wife said, "Now, Hubert." "Sorry, Grace." "You're too harsh on the boy. It does make me nervous." "Duke is not a boy. And I've done nothing to make you nervous." "I'm sorry, too. Mother. But if Dad regards it as interference, well -- " Duke forced a grin -- "I'll have to find a wife of my own to annoy. Barbara, will you marry me?" "No, Duke. Anyway, I agree with your father. Every car in our family has a survival kit. My father's idea. If anything happened. Pops would expect me to head up into the mountains." "You won't need to." "Sir?" "Dad means," explained Karen, "that you are welcome in our panic hole." B arbara showed a questioning look. Her host said, "Our bomb shelter. 'Farnham's Folly' my son calls it. I think you would be safer there than you would be running for the hills -- despite the fact that we are Base. If an alarm comes, we'll duck into it. Right, Joseph?" "Yes, sir! That way I stay on your payroll." "The hell you do. You're fired the instant the sirens sound -- and I start charging you rent." "Do I pay rent, too?" asked Barbara. "You wash dishes. Everybody does. Even Duke." "Count me out," Duke said grimly"Eh? Not that many dishes. Son." "Fm not joking. Dad; Khrushchev said he would bury us -- and you're making it come true. I'm not going to crawl into a hole in the ground!" IF "As you wish, sir." "Sonny boy!" His mother put down her cup. "If an attack comes, of course you're going into the shelter!" She blinked back tears. "Promise Mother." Young Farnham looked stubborn, then sighed. "All right. If an attack comes -- If an alarm sounds, I mean; there isn't going to be an attack -- in go into your panic hole. But, Dad, this is just to soothe Mother's nerves." "Nevertheless you are welcome." "Okay. Let's go into the living room and break out the cards -- with a firm understanding that we drop the subject." Barbara played as Farnham's partner, and the father and son had a private wager of a cent a point. The stakes made her tense, even though it was not her money. Her nervousness was increased by suspicion that her partner was a match player with a lot of experience. Her nerves relaxed, though not her care, as it began to appear that Mr. Farnham found her bidding satisfactory. But she welcomed the rest that came from being dummy. She spent these vacations studying Hubert Farnham. She decided that she liked him, for the way he handled his family and for the way he played bridge -- quietly, thoughtfully, exact in bidin play. She admired the way he squeezed out the last trick, of a contract in which she had forced them too high, by having the boldness to sluff an ace. TT ubert Farnham looked up from A the last trick. "Three spades, game and rubber. Well bid, partner." She flushed again. "Well played, you mean. I invited too much." "Not at all. At worst we would have been down one. If you don't bet, you can't win. Karen, has Joseph gone to bed?" "Studying. He's got a quiz." "I thought we might invite him to cut in. Barbara, Joseph is the best player in this house -- always aidacity at the right time. Plus the fact that he is studying to be an accountant and never forgets a card. Karen, can you find us something without disturbing Joseph?" Spect ah kin. Boss. Vodka and tonic for you?" "And muching food." "Come on, Barbara. Let's buttle." Hubert Farnham watched them fo, while thinking it was shame that so nice a child as Mrs. Wells should have had a sour marriage. A sound fame of bridge and a good disposition. Gangly and horsefaced, perhaps. But a nice smile and a mind of her own. If Duke had any gumption -- But Duke didn't have any. Farnham went to where his wife was nodding by the television receiver, and said, "Grace? Grace darling, ready for bed?" -- then helped her into her bedroom. Karen came in carrying drinks, followed by Barbara. "Hi! Barb got a look at our kitchen and decided to Make crepes Suzettes." "Fine. If you will snap the telewion on, we might get part of the Im o'clock roundup." " -- agreed in principal to three mti of four of the Presidents major points and has agreed to meet again o discuss the fourth point, the preaence of their nuclear submarines in our coastal waters. It may now be oafely stated that the crisis, the most acute in post-World-War-Two years, does seem to he tapering off to a mutual accommodation that both countries can live with. We pause to bring you exciting news from General Motors followed by an analysis in depth -- " Karen turned it down. Duke said, "Just as I said. Dad. You can take that cork out of your ear." "Later. Fm busy with crepes Suzettes. Barbara, I'll expect these for breakfast every morning." "Dad, quit trying to seduce her and cut the cards. I want to win back what I've lost." "That'll be a long night." Mr. Farnham finished eating, stood up to put his plate aside; the doorbell rang. "I'll answer it." He went to the door, returned shortly. Karen said, "Who was it, Daddy? I cut for you. You and I are partners. Look pleased." "I'm delighted. But remember that a count of eleven is not an opening bid. Somebody got lost, I guess. Possibly a nut." "My date. You scared him off." "Possibly. A bald-headed old coot, very weather-beaten and ragged." "My date," Karen confirmed. "President of the Dekes. Go get him. Daddy." "Too late. He took one look at me and fled. Whose bid is it?" Barbara continued to try to play like a machine. But it seemed to her that Duke was overbidding; she found herself thereby bidding timidly and had to force herself to overcome it. They went set several times in a long, dreary rubber which they "won" but lost on points. I t was a pleasure to lose the next rubber with Karen as her partner. They shifted and again she was Mr. Farnham's partner. He smiled at her. "This time we clobber them!" "I'll try." "Just play as you did. By the book. Duke will supply the mistakes." "Put your money where your IF mouth is, Dad. Want a side bet of a hundred dollars on this rubber?" 'A hundred it is." Barbara thought about seventeen lonely dollars in her purse and got nervous. She was still more nervous when the first hand ended at five clubs, bid and made -- by Duke -- and realized that he had overbid and would have been down one had she covered his finesse. Duke said, "Care to double that bet. Governor? "Okay. Deal." Her morale was bolstered by the second hand: her contract at four spades and made possible by voids; she was able to ruff before cleaning out trumps. Her partner's smile was reward enough. But it left her shaky. Duke said, "Both teams vulnerable, no part score. How's your blood pressure, Daddy-o? Double again?" "Planning on firing your secretary?" "Speak up, or accept a white feather." "Four hundred. You can sell your car." Mr. Farnham dealt. Barbara picked up her hand and frowned. The count was not bad -- to queens, a couple of jacks, an ace, a king -- but no biddable suit and the king was unguarded. It was a strength and distribution which she had long tagged as "just good enough to go set on." She hoped that it would be one of those sigh-of-relief hands in which everyone passes. Her partner picked up his hand and glanced at it. "Three no trump." Barbara repressed a gasp, Karen did gasp. "Daddy, are you feverish?" "Bid." "Pass!" Barbara said to herself, " 'Dod oh dod, what I do now?' " Her partner's bid promised twenty-five points -- and invited slam. She held thirteen points. Thirty-eight points in the two hands -- Grand slam. That's what the book said! Barbara girl, "three no trump" is #, #, or # points -- add thirteen and it reads "Grand Slam." But was Mr. Farnham playing by the book? Or was he bidding a shut-out to grab the rubber and nail down that preposterous bet? If she passed, then game and rubber -- and four hundred dollars -- was certain. But grand slam (if they made it) was, uh, around fifteen dollars at the stakes Duke and his father were playing. Risk four hun dred dollars of her partner's money igainst a chance of fifteen? Ridicuous! (But her partner had said, "Play by the book.") "Seven no trump," she said firm:yDuke whistled. "Thanks, Barbara. We're ganging up on you, Dad. Double." "Pass." "Pass," Karen echoed. Barbara again counted her hand. That singleton king looked awfully naked. But... either the home earn had thirty-eight points -- or ;t didn't. "Redouble." Duke grinned. "Thanks, sweetie pie. Your lead. Karen." M r, Farnham put down his hand and abruptly left the table, rlis son said, "Hey! Come back and :ake your medicine!" Mr. Farnham snapped on the television, moved on and switched on :he radio, changed its setting. "Red niert!" he snapped. "Somebody tell Joseph!" He ran out of the room. "Come back! You can't duck this with that kind of stunt!" "Shut up, Duke!" Karen snapped. The television screen flickered !nto life: " -- closing down. Tune at once to your emergency station. Good luck, good-by, and God bless you alir As the screen went blank the radiout in: " -- not a drill. This is not a drill. Take shelter. Emergency personnel report to their stations. Do not go out on the street. If you have no shelter, stay in the best protected room of your home. This is not a drill. Unidentified ballistic objects have been radar-sighted by our early-warning screens and it must be assumed that they are missiles. Take shelter. Emergency personnel report to their -- " "He means it," Karen said in an awed voice. "Duke, show Barb where to go. I'll wake Joseph." She ran out of the room. Duke said, "I don't believe it." "Duke, how do we get into the shelter?" "I'll show you." He stood up unhurriedly, picked up the hands put each in a separate pocket. "Mine and Sis's in my trousers, yours and Dad's in my coat. Come on. Want your suitcase?" "No!" II D uke led her through the kitchen to basement stairs. Mr. Farnham was halfway down, his wife in his arms. She seemed asleep. Duke snapped out of his attitude. "Hold it, Dad! I'll take her." "Get on down and open the door!" The door was steel set into the wall of the basement. Seconds were lost because Duke did not know how to handle its latch. At last Mr. Farnham passed his wife over to his son, opened it himself. Beyond, stairs led farther down. They managed it by carrying Mrs. Farnham, hands and feet, a limp doll, and took her IF through a second door into a room beyond. Its floor was six feet lower than the basement and under, Barbara decided, their back garden. She hung back while Mrs. Farnham was carried inside. Mr. Farnham reappeared. "Barbara! Get in here! Where's Joseph? Where's Karen?" Those two came rushing down the basement, stairs as he spoke. Karen was flushed and seemed excited and happy. Joseph was looking wild-eyed and was dressed in undershirt and trousers, his feet bare. He stopped short. "Mr. Farnham! Are they going to hit us?" "I'm afraid so. Get inside." The young Negro turned and yelled, "Doctor Livingstone I presumed He dashed back up the stairs. Mr. Farnham said, "Oh, GodV and pressed his fists against his temples. He added in his usual voice, "Get inside, girls. Karen, bolt the door but listen for me. I'll wait as long as I can." He glanced at his watch. "Five minutes." The girls went in. Barbara whispered, "What happened to Joseph? Flipped?" "Well, sort of. Dr.-Livingstone#-Presume is our cat. Loves Joseph, tolerates us." Karen started bolting the inner door, heavy steel, and secured with ten inch-thick bolts. She stopped. "Fm damned if I'll bolt this all the way while Daddy is outside! "Don't bolt it at all." Karen shook her head. "I'll use a couple, so he can hear me draw them. That cat may be a mile away. Barbara looked around. It was an L-shaped room; they had entered the end of one arm. Two bunks were oa the righthand wall; Grace Farnham was in the lower and still asleep. The left wall was solid with packed shelves; the passage was hardly wider than the door. The ceiling was low and arched and bf corrugated steel. She could see the ends of two more bunks at the bend. Duke was not in sight but he quickly appeared from around the bend, started setting up a card table in the space there. She watched in amazement as he got out the cards he had picked up -- how long ago? It seemed an hour. Probably less than five minutes. Duke saw her, grinned, and placed folding chairs around the table. T here came a clanging at the door. Karen unbolted it; Joseph tumbled in, followed by Mr. Famham. A lordly red Persian cat jumped out of Joseph's arms, started an inspection. Karen and her father bolted the door. He glanced at his wife, then said, "Joseph! Help me crank." "Yes, sir!" Duke came over. "Got her nuttoned up, Skipper?" "All but the sliding door. It has to be cranked." "Then come take your licking." Duke waved at the table. His father stared. "Duke, are vou seriously proposing to finish a card game while we're being attacked?" "I'm four hundred dollars senous. And another hundred says we aren't being attacked. In a half hour they'll call it off and tomorrow's papers will say the northern lights fouled up the radar. Play the hand? Or default?" "-Mmm. My partner will play it; I'm busy." "You stand behind the way she plays it?" "Of course." Barbara found herself sitting down at the table with a feeling that she had wandered into a dream. She picked up her partner's hand, studied it. "Lead, Karen." Karen said, "Oh, hell!" and led the trey of clubs. Duke picked up the dummy, laid it out in suits. "What do you want on it?" he asked. "Doesn't matter. I'll play both hands face up." "Better not." "It's solid." She exposed the cards. Duke studied them. "I see," he admitted. "Leave the hands; Dad will want to see this." He did some figuring. "Call it twenty-four hundred points Dad!" "Yes, Son?" "I'm writing a check for four hundred and ninety-two dollars -- and let that be a lesson to me." "You don't need to -- " All lights went out, the floor slammed against their feet. Barbara felt frightening pressure on her chest, tried to stand up and was knocked over. All around was a noise of giant subway trains, and the floor heaved like a ship in a cross sea. "Dad!" "Yes Duke! Are you hurt?" "I don't know. But mako duH five hundred and mnoty-two dollars!" The subterranean rumbling weal on. Through this roar Barbara heard Mr. Farnham chuckle. "Forget it!" he called out. "The dollar just depreciated." Mrs. Farnham started to screanL "Hubert! Hubert, where are you? Hubert! Make it stop! Please make it stop!" "Coming, dear!" A pencil of light cut the blackness, moved toward the bunks near the door. Barbara raised her head, made out that it was her host, on hands and knees with a flashlight in his teeth. He reached the bunk, succeeded in quieting Grace; her screams ceased. "Karen?" "Yes, Daddy." "Are you all right?" "Yes. Just bruised. My chair went over." "All right. Get the emergency lighting on in this bay. Don't stand up. Crawl, ril light you from here. Then get the hypo kit and -- Ow! Joseph!" "Yes, sir." "You in one piece?" "I'm okay. Boss." "Persuade your furry-faced Falstaff to join you. He jumped on  II me. "He's just friendly, Mr. Farnham." "Yes, yes. But I don't want him doing that while I'm giving a hypo. Call him." "Sure thing. Here, Doc! Doc, Doc, Doc! Fish, Doc!" IF S ome minutes later the rumbling had died out, the floor was steady, Mrs. Farnham had been knocked out by injected drug, two tiny lights were glowing in the first bay, and Mr. Farnham was inspecting. Damage was slight. Despite guard rails, cans had popped off shelves; a fifth of rum was broken. But liquor was almost the only thing stored in glass. The worst casualty was the shelter's battery-driven radio, torn loose from the wall and smashed. Mr. Farnham was on his knees, retrieving bits of it. His son looked down. "Don't bother. Dad. Sweep it up and throw it away." "Some parts can be salvaged." "What do you know about radios?" "Nothing," his father admitted. "But I have books." "A book won't fix that. You should have stocked a spare." "I have a spare." "Then for God's sake get it! I want to know what's happened." His father got up slowly and lookat Duke. "I would like to know, too. I can't hear anything over this radio I'm wearing. Not surprising, it's short range. But the spare is packed in foam and probably wasn't hurt." "Thenget it hooked up." "Later." "Later, hell. Where is it?" Mr. Farnham breathed hard. "I've had all the yap I'm going to take. Fm going to wait until I'm sure the attack is over. If you're itching to know what's happening outside, you can leave. If that's what you want I'll unbolt this door, crank back the armor door, and you can open the upper door yourself." "Eh? Don't be silly." "But close it after you. I don't want it open -- both for blast and radioactivity." "That's another thing. Don't you have any way to measure radioactivity? We ought takesteps to -- " "What? Dad, I don't appreciate being bawled out in the presence of others." "Then keep your voice down." They were in the first bay near the door. Mrs. Farnham was snoring by them; the others had retreated ness. "Are you ready to listen to me now?" "Very well, sir," Duke said stiffly. "Good. Son, I was not joking. Either leave... or do exactly as I tell you. That includes keeping your mouth shut when I tell you to. Which will it be? Absolute obedience, prompt and cheerful? Or will you leave?" "Aren't you being rather highhanded?" "I intend to be. This shelter is a lifeboat and I am boat officer. For the safety of all I shall maintain discipline. Even if it means tossing somebody, even my own son, overboard." "That's a far-fetched simile. Dad, it's a shame you were in the Navy. It gives you romantic ideas." " think it's a shame, Duke, that you never had service. You're not realistic. Well, which is it?" "Uh, ril be cooperative. But tliis absolute dictatorship -- Dad, tonight you made quite a point of the fact that you are a free man. Well, so am I. I'll cooperate. But I won't take unreasonable orders and, as for keeping my mouth shut, ril try to be diplomatic. But when I think it's necessary, I'll voice my opinion. Free speech. Fair enough?" H is father sighed. "Not nearly good enough, Duke. Stand aside. I want to unbolt the door." "Don't push a joke too far, Dad." "I'm not joking. I'm putting you out." "Dad... I hate to say this... but I don't think you are man enough. I'm bigger than you are and a lot younger." "Duke, please! I built this shelter. Not two hours ago you were sneering at it, telling me that it was a 'sick thing to do. Now you want to use it, since it turned out you were wrong. Can't you admit that?" "Oh, certainly. You've made your point." "Yet you are telling me how to run it. Telling me that  should have provided a spare radio. When you hadn't provided anything. Can't you be a man, give in, and do as I tell you? When your life depends on my hospitality?" "Cripes! I told you I would cooperate." "But you haven't been doing so. You've been making silly remarks, getting in my way, giving me lip, wasting my time when I have urgent things to do. Duke, I don't want your cooperation, on your termi according to your judgment. Whfli we are in this shelter I want yoor absolute obedience." Duke shook his head. "Get M through your head that Fm no longer a child. Dad. My cooperation, yet. But I won't promise the other." Mr. Farnham shook his head sorrowfully and turned away, "Josephl "Yes, sir?" "It's condition seven." "Condition seven, sir?" "Yes, and getting worse. Be careful with the instruments and dont waste time." "Right away, sir!" "Thank you." He turned to hii son. "Duke, if you really want to cooperate, you could pick up the pieces of this radio. It's the same model as the one in reserve. There may be pieces we can use to repair the other one, if it becomes necessary. Will you do that?' "Sure, sure. I told you I would cooperate." Duke got on his knees, started to complete the task he had interrupted. "Thank you." His father turned away. "Mr. Duke! Get your hands up I" Duke looked over his shoulder, saw Joseph by the card table, aiming a Thompson submachine gun at him. He jumped to his feet. "What tht hell!" "Stay there!" Joseph said. "I'll shoot." "Yes," agreed Duke's father, "he doesn't have the compunctions you thought I had. Joseph, if he moves, shoot him." IF "Daddy! What's going on?" Mr. Farnham turned to face his daughter. "Get back!" "But, Daddy -- " "Shut up. Both of you get into that lower bunk. Karen on the inside. Mover K aren moved. Barbara looked wide-eyed at theautomatic her host now held in his hand and got quickly into the lower bunk of the other bay. "Arms around each other," he said briskly. "Don't either of you let the other one move." He went back to the first bay. "Duke." "Yes?" "Lower your hands slowly and unfasten your trousers. Let them fall but don't step out of them. Then turn slowly and face the door. Unfasten the bolts." "Dad -- " "Shut up. Joseph, if he does anything but exactly what I told him to, shoot. Try for his legs, but hit him." Face white, expression dazed, Duke did as he was told: let his trousers fall until he was hobbled, turned and started unbolting the door. His father let him continue until half the bolts were drawn. "Duke. Stop. The next few seconds determine whether you go -- or stay. You know the terms." Duke barely hesitated. "I accept." "I must elaborate. You will not only obey me, you will obey Joseph." Joseph? "My second-in-command. I have to have one, Duke; I can't stay awake all the time. I would gladly have had you as deputy -- but you would have nothing to do with it. So I trained Joseph. He knows where everything is, how it works, how to repair it. So hes my deputy. Well? Will you obey him just as cheerfully? No back talk?" Duke said slowly, "I promise." "Good. But a promise made under duress isn't binding. There is another commitment always given under duress and nevertheless binding, a point which as a lawyer you will appreoiate. I want your parole as a prisoner. Will you give me your parole to abide by the conditions until we leave the shelter? A straight quid-pro-quo; your parole in exchange for not being forced outside?" "You have my parole." "Thank you. Throw the bolts and fasten your trousers. Joseph, stow the Tommy gun." "Okay, Boss." Duke secured the door, secured his pants. As he turned around his father offered him the automatic, butt first. "What's this for?" Duke asked. "Suit yourself. If your parole isn't good, I would rather find it out now." Duke took the gun, removed the clip, worked the slide and caught the cartridge from the chamber, put it back int# the clip and reloaded the gun -- handed it back. "My parole is good. Here." "Keep it. You were always a headstrong boy, Duke, but you were never a Kar." "Okay , , . Boss." His son put the pistol in a pocket. "Hot in here." "And going to get hotter." "Eh? How much radiation do you think we're getting?" "I don't mean radiation. Fire storm." He walked into the space where the bays joined, looked at a thermometer, then at his wrist "Eighty-four and only twenty-three minutes since we were hit. It'll get worse." "How much worse?" "How would I know, Duke? I don't know how far away the hit was, how many megatons, how widespread the fire. I don't even know whether the house is burning overhead, or was blasted away. Normal temperature in here is about fifty degrees. That doesn't look good. But there is nothing to do about it. Yes, there's one thing. Strip down t# shorts. I shall." H e went into the other bay. Tha girls were still in the lower bunk, arms around each other, keeping quiet. Joseph was on the floor with his back to the wall, the cat in his lap. Karen looked round-eyed as her father approached but she said nothing. "You kids can get up." "Thanks," said Karen. "Pretty warm for snuggling." Barbara backed out and Karen sat up. "So it is. Did you hear what jmt happened?" "Some sort of argument," Karen said cautiously. "Yes. And it's the last one. I'm boss and Joseph is my deputy. Understood?" IS IF "Yes, Daddy, "said Karen. "Mrs. Wells?" "Me? Why, of course! It's your shelter. Pm grateful to be in it -- Pm grateful to be alive! And please call me Barbara, Mr. Farnham." "Sorry, Hmm. Call me 'Hugh, I prefer it to 'Hubert.' Duke, everybody -- first names from now on. Don't call me 'Dad,' call me 'Hugh.' Joe, knock off the 'Mister' and the 'Miss.' Catch?" "Okay, Boss, if you say so." "Make that 'Okay, Hugh. Now you girls peel down, panties and bra or such, then get Grace peeled to her skin and turn the light out there. It's hot, it's going to get hotter. Joe, strip to your shorts.' Mr. Farnham took his packet off, started unbuttoning his shirt. Joseph said, "Uh, Pm comfortable." "I wasn't asking, I was telling you." "Uh... Boss, Vm not wearing shorts! "He's not," Karen confirmed. "I rushed him." "So?" Hugh looked at his exhouseboy and chuckled. "Joe, you're a sissy. I should have made Karen straw boss." "Suits me." "Get a pair out of stores and you can change in the toilet space. While you're about it, show Duke where it is. Karen, the same for Barbara. Then we'll gather for a powwow." The powwow started five minutes later. Hugh Farnham was at the table, dealing out bridge hands, assessing them. When they were seat ed he said, "Anybody for bridge?" "Daddy, you're joking." "My name is 'Hugh.' I was not joking, a rubber of bridge might quiet your nerves. Put away that cigarette, Duke." "Uh... sorry." "You can smoke tomorrow, I think. Tonight I've got pure oxygen cracked pretty wide and we are taking in no air. You saw the bottles in the toilet space?" The space between the bays was filled by pressure bottles, a water tank, a camp toilet, stores, and a small area where a person might manage a stand-up bath. Air intakes and exhausts, capped off, were there, plus a hand-orpower blower, and scavengers for carbon dioxide and water vapor. This space was reached by an archway between the tiers of bunks. "Oxygen in those? I thought it was air." "Couldn't afford the space penalty. So we can't risk fire, even a cigarette. I opened one inlet for a check. Very hot -- heat 'hot' as well as making a Geiger counter chatter. Folks, I don't know how long we'll be on bottled breathing.' I figured thirty-six hours for four! people, so it's nominally twenty-fourj hours for six, but that's not the pinch. I'm sweating -- and so are you. We can take it to about a hundred and twenty. Above that, we'll have to use oxygen just to cool the place. It might end in a fine balance between heat and suffocation. Or worse." "Daddy -- Hugh, I mean. Are you breaking it gently that we arc going to be baked alive?" "You won't be, Karen. I won't let you be." "Well... I prefer a bullet." "Nor will you be shot. I have enough sleeping pills to let twenty people die painlessly. But we aren't here to die. We've had vast luck; with a little more we'll make it. So don't be morbid." # # T T ow about the radioactivity?" asked Hugh. "Can you read an integrating counter?" "No." "Take my word for it that wc are in no danger yet. Now about sleeping. This side, where Grace is, is the girls' dorm; this other side is ours Only four bunks but that's okay; one person has to monitor air and heat, and the other one without a bed can keep him awake. However I'm taking the watch tonight and won't need company; I've taken dexedrine." "I'll stand watch." -- "I'll stay up with you." -- "I'm not sleepy let me stay here -- " "Slow down!" Hugh said. "Joe, you can't stand watch now because you have to relieve me when I'm tuckered out. You and I will alternate until we' are sure Aat the situation is safe." Joe shrugged and kept quiet. Duke said, "Then it's my privilege." "Can't either of you add? Two bunks for women, two for men. What's left over? We'll fold this table and the gal left over can sprawl on the floor here. Joe, break out blankets and put a couple here and a couple in the tank space for me.' "Right away, Hugh!" Both girls insisted on standing watch. Hugh shut them off. "Cut for it." "But -- " "Pipe down, Barbara. Ace low, and low girl sleeps on a bunk, the other here on the floor. Duke, do you want a sleeping pill?" "That's one habit I don't have." "Don't be an iron man." "Well -- A rain check?" "Surely. Joe? Seconal?" "Well, I'm so relieved that I don't have to take that quiz tomorrow..." "Glad somebody is happy. All right." "I was going to add that I'm pretty keyed up. You're sure you won't need me?" "I'm sure. Karen, get one for Joe. You know where?" "Yes and I'm going to get one for me, since I won the cut. I'm no iron man! And a Miltown on top of it." "Do that. Sorry, Barbara, you can't have one; I might have to wake you and have you keep me awake. You can have Miltown. You'll probably sleep from it." "I don't need it." "As you wish. Bed, everybody. It's midnight and two of you are going on watch in eight hours." In a few minutes all were in bed with Barbara where the table had been, all lights out save one in the tank space. Hugh squatted on blankets there, playing solitaire -- badly. IF . r # gain the floor heaved, again came that terrifying rumble. Karen screamed. Hugh was up at once. This one was not as violent; he was able to tay on his feet. He hurried into the girls' dorm. "Baby! Where are you?" He fumbled, found the light switch. "Up here, Daddy. Oh, Fm scared! I was just dropping off and it almost threw me out. Help me down." He did so; she clung to him, sobbing. "There, there," he said, patting her. "You've been a brave girl, don't let it throw you." "I'm not brave. Fve been scared silly all along. I just didn't want it to show." "Well... Fm scared too. So let's not show it, huh? Better have another pill. And a stiff drink." "All right. Both. Fm not going to sleep in that bunk. It's too hot up there, as well as scary when it shakes." "All right. I'll pull the mattress down." Duke and Barbara were sitting on the blanket she had been napping on ; they were looking very solemn. Hugh said, "Where's Joe? He wasn't hurt, was he?" Duke gave a short laugh. "Want to see 'Sleeping Innocence'? That bottom bunk." Hugh found his second-in-command sprawled on his back, snoring, as deeply unconscious as Grace Far oh am . Dr .Livingstone-I-Presume was curled up on his chest. Hugh came back. "Well, that blast was farther away. Fm glad Joe could deep." "It was too damned close to suit me! When are they going to run out of those things?" "Soon, I hope. Folks, Karen and I have just formed the 'Fm-scaredtoo' club and are about to celebrate with a drink. Any candidates?" "Fm a charter member!" "So am I," agreed Barbara. "Yes!" Hugh fetched papef cups, and bottles -- Scotch, seconal, and Miltown. "Water, anyone?" Duke said, "I don't want anything interfering with the liquor." "Water, please," Barbara answered. "It's so hot." "How hot is it, Daddy?" "Duke, I put the thermometer in the tank room. Go see, will you?" "Sure. And may I use that rain check?" "Certainly." Hugh gave Karen another seconal capsule, another Miltown pill, and told Barbara that she must take a Miltown -- then took one himself, having decided that dexedrine had made him edgy. Duke returned. "One hundred and four degrees," he announced. "I opened the valve another quarter turn. All right?" "Have to open it still wider soon. Here are your pills, Duke." "Thanks." Duke swallowed them, chased them with whisky. "Fm going to sleep on the floor, too. Coolest place in the house." "Smart of you. All right, leFs settle down. Give the pills a chance." H ugh sat with Karen after she bedded down, then gently extracted his hand from hers and returned to the tank room. The temperature was up two degrees. He opened the valve on the working tank still wider, listened to it sigh to emptiness, shook his head, got a wrench and shifted the gauge to a full tank. Before he opened it, he attached a hose, led it out into the main room. Then he went back to pretending to play solitaire. A few minutes later Barbara appeared in the doorway. "Fm not sleepy," she said. "Could you use some company?" "You've been crying." "Does it show? Fm sorry." "Come sit down. Want to play cards?" "If you want to. All I want is company." "We'll talk. Would you like another drink?" "Oh, would I! Can you spare it?" "I stocked plenty. Barbara, can you think of a better night to have a drink? But both of us will have to see to it that the other one doesn't go to sleep." "All right. I'll keep you awake." They shared a cup, Scotch with water from the tank. It poured out as sweat faster than they drank it. Hugh increased the gas flow again and found that the ceiling was unpleasantly hot. "Barbara, the house must have burned over us. There is thirty inches of concrete above us and then two feet of dirt." "How hot do you suppose it is outside?" "Couldn't guess. We must have been close to the fireball." He felt the ceiling again. "I beefed this thing up -- roof, walls, and floor are all one steel-reinforced box. It was none too much. We may have trouble getting the doors open. All this heat -- And probably warped by concussion." She said quietly, "Are we trapped?" "No, no. Under these bottles is a hatch to a tunnel. Thirty-inch culvert with concrete around it. Leads to the gully back of the garden. We can break out -- crowbars and a hydraulic jack -- even if the end is crushed in and covered with crater glass. Fm not worried about that; I'm worried about how long we can stay inside... and whether it will be safe when we leave." "How bad is the radioactivity?" He hesitated. "Barbara, would it mean anything to you? Know anything about radiation?" "Enough. Fm majoring -- I was majoring -- in botany; I've used isotopes in genetics experiments. I can stand bad news, Hugh, but not knowing -- well, that's why I was crying." "Mmm. The situation is worse than I told Duke." He jerked his thumb over his shoulder. "Integrating counter back of the bottles. Go look." She went to it, stayed several minutes. When she came back, she sat down without speaking. "Well?" he asked. "Could I have another drink?" "Certainly." He mixed it. She sipped it, then said quietly, "If the slope doesn't change, we'll hit the red line by morning." she IF frowned. But that marks a conservative limit. If I remember the figures, we probably won't start vomiting for at least another day." And the curve should I level off soon. That's why heat worries me more than radiation." He looked at the thermometer, cracked the valve still wider. "I've been running the water-vapor getter on battery; I don't think we should crank the blower in this heat. I'm not going to worry about CeeOh-Two until we start to pant." "Seems reasonable." "Let's forget the hazards. Anytiling you'd like to talk about? Yourself?" "Little to tell, Hugh. Female, white, twenty-five years old. Back in school, or was, after a bad marriage. A brother in the Air Force -- so possibly he's all right. My parents were in Acapulco, so perhaps they are, too. No pets, thank God -- and I was so pleased that Joe saved his cat. No regrets, Hugh, and not afraid... not really. Just... sad." She sniffed. "It was a pretty nice world, even if I did crumb up my marriage." "Don't cry." "I'm not crying; Those drops are sweat." "Yes. Surely." "They are. It's terribly hot." Suddenly she reached both hands behind her ribs. "Do you mind? If I take this off? It's smothering me." "Go ahead. Child, if you can get comfortable -- or less uncomfortable -- do so. Skin doesn't shock me." He stood up, went behind the oxygen bottles, and looked at the record of radiation. Having done so, he checked the thermometer and increased the flow of oxygen. As he sat down he remarked, "I might as well have stored air instead of oxygen, then we could smoke. But I did not expect to use it for cooling." He ignored .the fact that she had accepted his invitation to be comfortable. He added, "I was worried about heating the place. I tried to design a stove to use contaminated air safely. Possible. But difficult." "I think you did amazingly well. This is the only shelter I've ever heard of with stored air. You're a scientist. Aren't you?" "Me? Heavens, no. High school only. What little I know I picked up here and there. Some in the Navy, metal work and correspondence courses. Then I worked for a public futility and learned something about construction and pipe lines. Then I became a contractor." He smiled. "No Barbara, I'm a 'general specialist'. The Elephant ChilcPs 'satiable curiosity.' Like Dr.-Livingstone-I-Presume." "How did a cat get a name like that?" "Karen. Because he's a great explorer. That cat can get into anything. Do you like cats?" "I don't know much about them. But Dr. Livingstone is a beauty." "So he is but I like all cats. You don't own a cat, he is a free citizen. Take dogs; dogs are friendly and fun and loyal. But slaves. Not their fault, they've been bred for it. But slavery makes me queasy, even in animals." He frowned. "Barbara, I'm not as sad over what has happened as you are. It might be good for us. I don't mean us six; I mean our country." S he looked very startled. "How?" "Well -- It's hard to take the long view when you are crouching m a shelter and wondering how long you can hold out. But -- Barbara, I've wonied for years about our country. It seems to me that we have been breeding slaves -- and I believe in freedom. This war may have turned the tide. This may be the first war in history which kills the stupid rather than the bright and able -- where is makes any distinction." "How do you figure that, Hugh?" "Well, wars have always been hardest on the best young men. This time the boys in service are as safe or safer than civilians. And of civilians those who used their heads and made preparations stand a far better chance. Not every case, but on the average, and that will improve the breed. When it's over, things will be tough, and that wifl improve the breed still more. For years the surest way of surviving has been to be utterly worthless and breed a lot of worthless kids. All standard genetics. But it seems that will change." She nodded. "That's cruel." "It is cruel. But no government yet has been able to repeal natural laws, though they keep trying." She shivered in spite of the heat. "I suppose you're right. No, I know you're right. But I could face it more cheerfully if I thought there was gothe poorest third is good genetics... but there is nothing good about "Mmm, yes. I hate to think about it. But I did think about it. Barbara, I didn't stockpile oxygen just against radiation and fire storm. I had in mind worse things." "Worse? How?" "All the talk about the horrors of World War Three has been about atomic weapons -- fallout, hundred megaton bombs, neutron bombs. The disarmament talks and the pacifist parades have all been about the Bomb, the Bomb, the Bomb -- as if A-weapons were the only thing that could kill. This may not be just an A-weapon war; more biological, and chemical." He hooked a thumb at the tanks. "That's why I stocked that bottled breathing. Against nerve gas. Aerosols. Viruses. God knows what. The communists won't smash this country if they can kill us without destroying our wealth. I wouldn't be surprised to learn that bombs had been used only OQ military targets like the antimissile base here, but that New York and Detroit and such received nerve gas. Or a #-hour plague with # mortality. The horrid possibilities are endless. The air outside could be loaded with death that a counter won't detect and a filter can't stop." He smiled grimly. "Sorry. You had better go back to bed." "I'm miserable anyway and don't Wiot to be alone. May I stay?" IF "Certainly. I'm happier with you present no matter how gloomy I sound." "What you've been saying isn't nearly as gloomy as the thoughts I have alone. I wish we knew what was going on outside!" She added, "I wish we had a periscope." "We do have," "Huh? WhereT "Did have. Sorry. That pipe over there. I tried to raise it but it won't budge. However -- Barbie, I tromped on Duke for demanding that I break out our spare radio before the attack was over. But maybe it's over. What do you think?" "Me? How would I know?" "You know as much as I do. That first missile was intended to take out bother with us otherwise. If they are spotting from orbiting spaceships, then that second one was another try at the same target. The timing fits, time of flight from Kamchatka is about half an hour and the second hit about forty-five minutes after the first. That one was probably a bull's-eye -- and they know it, because more than an hour has passed and no third missile. That means they are through with us; Logical?"  "Sounds logical to me." "It's crumby logic, my dear. Not enough data. Perhaps both missiles thing they throw. Perhaps the Russkis have run out of missiles. Perhaps the third round will be delivered by bomber. We don't know. But Fm itching to find out." #T would certainly like to hear A some news." "We'll try. If it's good news, we'll wake the others." Hugh Farnham dug into the corner, came out with a box, unpacked a radio. "Doesn't have a scratch. Let's try it without an antenna. "Nothing but static," he announced shortly. "Not surprised. Although its mate could pull in local stations without an aerial. Now we'll hook to the fixed antenna. Wait here." He returned shortly. "No soap. Stands to reason that there isn't anything left of the fixed antenna.  we'll try the emergency one." Hugh took a wrench and removed a cap from an inch pipe that stuck down through the ceiling. He tested the opening with a radiation counter. "A little more count." He got two steel rods, each five feet long; with one he probed the pipe. "Doesn't go up as far as it should. The tcp of this pipe was buried just below ground. Trouble." He screwed the second rod into the first. "Now comes the touchy part. Stand back, there may be debris -- "It'll get on you." "On my hands, maybe. I'll scrub afterwards. You can go over me with a Geiger counter." He tapped with a sledge on the bottom of the joined rods. Up they went about eighteen inches. "Something solid. I'll have to bang it." Many blows later the rod was seated into the pipe. "It felt," he said, as he stopped to scrub his hands, "as if we passed into open air the last foot or so. But it should have stuck out five feet above ground. Rubble, I suppose. What's left of our home. Want to use the counter on me?" "Hugh, you say that as casually as 'What's left of yesterday's milk.' " He shrugged. "Barbie girl, I was broke when I joined the Navy, Pve been flat busted since; I will not waste tears over a roof and some plumbing. Get any count?" "You're clean." "Check the floor under the pipe." There were hot spots on the floor; Hugh wiped them with damp Kleenex, disposed of it in a metal waste can. She checked his hands afterwards, and the spots on the floor. "Well, that used up a gallon of water; this radio had better work." He clipped the antenna lead to the rod, switched it on. Ten minutes later they admitted fliat they were getting nothing. Noise -- static all over the dial -- but no signal. He sighed. "I'm not surprised. I don't know what ionization does to radio waves, but that must be a sorcerer's brew of hot botopes over our heads: I had hoped wc could get Salt Lake City." "Not Denver?" rH leave the gain up; maybe we'll bear something.' "Don't you want to save the battery?" "Not really. Let's sit down and recite limericks." He looked at the Integrating counter, whistled softly then checked the thermometer. "I'll five our sleeping beauties a little more relief from the beat. How well are you standing it. Barbie?" "Truthfully, I had forgotten it. The sweat pours off and that's that." "Me, too." "Well, don't use more oxygen on my account. How many bottles are left?" "Not many." "How many?" "Less than half. Don't fret. I'll bet you five hundred thousand dollars -- fifty cents in the new currency -- that you can't recite a limerick I don't know." "Clean, or dirty?" "Are there clean ones?" "Okay. 'A playful young fellow named Scott -- ' " T he limerick session was a flop. Hugh accused her of having a clean mind. She answered, "Not really, Hugh. But my mind isn't working." "I'm not at my sharpest. Another drink?" "Yes. With water, please, I sweat so; I'm dry. Hugh?" "Yes, Barbie?" "We're going to die. Aren't we?" "Yes." "I thought so. Before morning?" "Oh, no! I feel sure we can live till noon. If we want to." "I see. Hugh, would you mind if I moved over by you? Would you put your arm around me? Or is it too hot?" "Any time I'm too hot to put my arm around a girl I'll know I'm dead and in hell." "Thanks." "Room enough? TF Plenty," said Barbara, smiling. "You're a little girl." "I weigh a hundred and thirtytwo pounds and I'm five feet eight and that's not little." "You're a little girl. Put the cup aside. Tilt your face up." "Mmmm -- Again. Please, again." "A greedy little girl." "Yes. Very greedy. Thank you, Hugh." "All right?" "Wonderfully all right. And kiss me, too. Please?" "Barbara, Barbara!" "Hugh darling! I love you. Oh!" "I love you, Barbara." "Yes. Yes! Oh, please! NowV Some minutes later, the biggest slam of all hit them. Ill T he light went out, Grace Farnham screamed, and Dr. Livingstone-I-Presume wailed. Barbara was knocked silly and came to heaped over a steel bottle and disoriented by blackne.ss and no floors or walls. She groped around, found a leg, found Hugh attached to it. He was limp. She felt for his heart beat, could not find' it. She shouted: "Hello! Hello! Anybody!" Duke answered,"Barbara?" "Yes, yes!" "Are you all right?" "I'm all right, Hugh is hurt. I think he's dead." "Take it easy. When I find my trousers. I'll light a match -- if I can get off my shoulders. I'm standing on them." "Hubert! Hubertr "Yes, Mother! Wait." Grace continued to scream; Duke alternated reassurances and cursing the darkness. Barbara felt around, slipped on loose oxygen bottles, hurt her shiii and found a flat surface. She could not tell what it was; it was canted steeply. Duke called out, "Got 'em!" A match flared up, torch bright in oxygen-rich air. Joe's voice said, "Better put that out. Fire hazard." A flashlight beam cut the gloom. Barbara called out, "Joe! Help me with Hugh!" "Got to see about lights." "He may be dying." "Can't do a thing without light." Barbara shut up, tried again to find heart beat -- found it and clutched Hugh's head, sobbing. Lights came on in the men's bay; enough trickled in that Barbara could make out her surroundings. The floor sloped about thirty degrees; she, Hugh, steel bottles, water tank, and other gear were jumbled in the lower corner. The tank had sprung a leak and was flooding the toilet space. She saw that, had the tilt been the other way, she and Hugh would have been buried under steel and water. Minutes later Duke and Joe joined her, letting themselves down through the door. Joe carried a camp lamp. Duke said to Joe, "How are we going to move him?" "We don't. It might be his spine." "Still have to move him." "We don't move him," Joe said firmly. "Barbara, have you moved him?" "I took his head in my lap." "Well, don't move him any more." Joe looked his patient over, touching him gently. "I can't see any gross injuries," he decided. "Barbara, if you can stay put, we'll wait until he comes to. Then I can check his eyes for concussion, see if he can wiggle his toes, things like that." "I'll hold still. Anybody else hurt?" "Not to speak of," Duke assured her. "Joe thinks he's cracked some ribs and I wrenched a shoulder. Mother just got rolled into the corner of her bunk. Sis is soothing her. Sis is okay -- a lump on her head where a can konked her. Are you all right?" "Just bruises. Hugh and I were playing double solitaire and trying to keep cool when it hit." She wondered how long the lie would stand up. Duke had no more on than she did and didn't seem troubled by it; Joe was dressed in underwear shorts. She added, "The cat? Is he all right?" "Dr.-Livingstone-I-Presume," Joe answered seriously, "escaped injury. But he is vexed that his sand box was dumped over. He's cleaning himself and criticizing." "Fm.lad he wasn't hurt." "Nofice anything about this blast?" "What, Joe? It was the hardest of the three. Much the hardest." "Yes. But no rumbling. Just one great, big, grand slam, then... nothing.". "What does that indicate?" "I don't know. Barbara, can you stay here and not move? I want to get more lights on, check the damage, and see what to do about it." "I won't move." Hugh seemed to be breathing easily. In the silenoi she could hear his heart beat. She had nothing to be unhappy about K aren joined her, carrying a flashlight and moving carefully on the slant. "How's Daddy?" "No change." "Knocked cold, I guess. So was I. You okay?" She played the flash light over Barbara. "Not hurt." "Well! I'm glad you're in uniform, too. I can't find my pants. Joe ignores it so carefully, it's painful. Is that boy square!" "I don't know where my clothes are." "Joe has the only pants among us. What happened to you? Were you asleep?" "No. I was here. We were talking." "Hmn -- Further deponent sayeth not. I'll keep your grisly secret. Mother won't know; I gave her another hypo." "Aren't you jumping at conclusions?" "My favorite exercise. I hope my nasty suspicions are correct. I wish I had had something better to do than sleep last night. Since it's probably our last night." She leaned over and kissed Barbara. "I like you." "Thanks, Karen. Me, too. You." Let's hold a funeral and preach about what nice guys we are. You made my Daddy happy when you had the guts to bid that slam. If you made him happier still, I'm in favor of it." She straightened up. " 'Bye. I'll go sort groceries. If Daddy wakes up, yell." She left. # IF "Barbara," said Hugh softly. "Yes, Hugh? Yes!" "Keep your voice down. I heard what my daughter said." "You did?" "Yes. She's a gentleman. Barbara I love you. I may not have another chance to say so." "I love you." "Darling." "Shall I call the others? "Shortly. Are you comfortable?" "Oh, very!" "Then let me rest a bit. I feel woozy." "As long as you like. Uh, can you wiggle your toes? Do you hurt any place?" "I hurt lots of places, but not too much. Let me see -- Yes, I can move everything. All right, call Joe." "No hurry." "Better call him. Work to do." Shortly Mr. Farnham was back in charge. Joe required him to move himself -- a mass of bruises but no break, sprain, nor concussion. It seemed to Barbara that Hugh had landed on the bottles and that she had landed on him. She did not discuss her theory. Hugh's first act was to bind Joe's ribs with elastic bandage. Joe gasped as it tightened but seemed more comfortable with it. The lump on Karen's head was inspected; Hugh decided that there was something he could do for it. "Will somebody fetch the thermometer?" he asked. "Duke?" "It's busted." "It's a bimetal job. Shockproof." "I looked for it," Duke explained, "while you were doctoring. Seems cooler to me. While it may be shockproof, it couldn't stand being mashed between two tanks:" "Oh. Well, it's no big loss." "Dad? Wouldn't this be a good time to try the spare radio?" "I suppose so, but -- I hate to tell you, Duke, but you'll probably find it smashed, too. We tried it earlier. No results." He glanced at his wrist. "An hour and a half ago. At two a.m. Has anyone else the time?" Duke's watch agreed. "We seem to be in fair shape," Hugh decided, "except for water. There are some plastic jugs of water but we need to salvage the tank water; we may have to drink it. With Halazone tablets. Joe, we need utensils of any sort, and everybody bail. Keep it as clean as you can." He added. "When Joe can spare you, Karen, scrounge some breakfast. We've got to eat, even if this is Armageddon." "And Armageddon sick of it," Karen offered. H er father winced. "Baby girl, you will write on the blackboard one thousand times: T will not make bad puns before breakfast. ' " "I thought it was pretty good, Hugh." "Don't encourage her, Barbara. All right, get with it." Karen returned shortly, carrying Dr. Livingstone. "I wasn't much help," she announced, "Because somebody has to hang onto this damn cat. He wants to help." 'Kalhlerrrrtr "You did so! Fm going to entice him with sardines and get breakfast. What do you want. Daddy Hugh Boss? Crepes Suzettes?" "Yes. That sounds very good." "What you'll get k Spam and crackers." "All right. How's the bailing going?" "Daddy, I won't drink that water even with Halazone." She made a face. "You know where it wound p. "We may have to drink it." "Well... if you cut it with whisky -- " "Mmm. Every case of liquor is leaking. The two I've opened each have one fifth, unbroken." "Daddy, you've ruined breakfast." "The question is, do I ration it evenly? Or save it all for Grace?" "Oh." Karen's features screwed up m painful decision. "She can have my share. But the others shouldn't be deprived just because Gracie has a yen." "Karen, at this stage it's not a yen. ki a way, for her it's medicine." "Yeah, sure. And diamond bracelets and sable coats are medicine for me. "Baby, there's no point in blaming her. When you get to be my age -- " "Daddy, I don't expect to get to be your age -- and we both know it. If we've got even two fifths of liquor, it's probably enough. Why don't you just serve it to whoever needs it?" The lines in his face got deeper. "Karen, I haven't given up. It's distinctly cooler. We may get out of this yet." "Well -- I guess that's the proper attitude. Give me a kiss, Daddy." He did. "Now pipe down and get to work." F ive of diem gathered for breakfast, sitting on the floor as chairs would not stand up. Mii. Famham was still lethargic frmn heavy sedation. The others shared canned meat, crackers, cold Nescafe, canned peaches and warm comradeship. They were dressed, the men in shorts, Karen in shorts and halter, and Barbara in a muu muu belonging to Karen. Her underwear had been salvaged but was soaked and the air was too moist to dry it Hugh announced. "Time for a conference. Suggestions are wdcome." He looked at his son. "One item, Dad -- Hugh," Duke answered. "The backhouse took a beating. I patched it and rigged a platform out of boards that had secured the air bottles. It's shaky." "Good job, Duke. But with six of us I think we should rig a second one. Can we manage that, Joe?" "Yes, we could. But..." "But what?" "Do you know how much oxy is left?" "I do. We must shift to blower and filter soon. And there is not a working radiation counter left. So we won't know what we'll be letting in. However we've got to breathe." "But did you look at the blower?" "It looked all right." "It's not. I don't think I can repair it." Mr. Farnham sighed. "I've had a spare on order for six months. Well, rU look at it, too. And you, Duke; maybe one of us can fix it." "Okay." "Let's assume we can't repair it Then we use the oxygen as sparingIF ly as possible. After that we can get along, for a while, on the air inside. But there will come a time when we have to open the door." Nobody said anything. "Smile, Bomebody!" Hugh went on. "We aren't licked. We'll rig dust filters out of sheets in the door -- better than nothing. We still have one radio -- the one you mistook for a hearing aid, Barbara. I wrapped it and put it away; it wasn't hurt. Til go outside and put up an antenna and we can listen to it down here; it could save us. We'll rig a flagpole, from the sides of a bunk perhaps, and fly a flag. A hunting shirt. No, the American flag; I've got one. If we don't make it, we'll go down with our colors flying!" Karen started clapping. "Don't scoff, Karen." "I'm not scoffing. Daddy! I'm cry ing. The rockets red glare -- the bombs bursting in air -- gave proof through the night -- that our flag was still -- ' " Her voice broke and she buried her face in her hands. B arbara put an arm around her. Hugh Farnham went on as if nothing had happened. "But we won't go down. Soon they will search this area for survivors. They'll see our flag and take us out -- helicopter, probably. "So our business is to be alive when they come." He stopped to think. "No unnecessary work, no exercise. Sleeping pills for everybody and try to sleep twelve hours a day and lie down all the time; it will make the air last as long as possible. The only work is to repair that blower and we'll knock that off if we can't fix it. Let's see -- Water must be rationed. Duke, you are water marshal. See how much pure water there is; work out a schedule to stretch it. There is a one ounce glass with the medicines; use it to dispense water. That's all, I guess: Repair the blower, minimum exercise, maximum sleep, rationed water, Oh, yes! Sweat is wasteful. It's still hot and Barbara, you've sweat right through that sack. Take it off." "May I leave the room?" "Certainly." She left, walking carefully on the steep floor, went into the tank room, and returned wearing her soaked underwear. "That's better," he approved. "Now -- " "Hubert! Hubert! Where are you? I'm thirsty." "Duke, give her one ounce. Charge it to her." "Yes, sir." "Don't forget that the cat has to have water. "The dirty water, maybe?" "Humm. We won't die through playing fair with our guest. Let's keep our pride." "He's been drinking the dirty water." "Well -- You boss it. Suggestions, anyone? Joe does it suit you?" "Well -- No, sir." "So?" "No exercise, least oxygen used, makes sense. But when it comes time to open the door, where are we?" "We take our chances." "I mean, can we? Short on air, panting, thirsty, maybe sick -- I'd like to be certain that anyone, Karen, say, with a broken arm, can get that door open." "I see," said Hugh, nodding. "I'd like to try all three doors. Fd like to leave the armor door open. A girl can't handle that crank. I volunteer to try the upper door." "Sorry, it's my privilege. I go along with the rest. That's why I asked for suggestions. I'm tired, Joe; my mind is fuzzy." "And if the doors are blocked? Probably rubble against the upper door -- " "We have the jack." "Well, if we can't use the doors, we should make sure of the escape tunnel. Duke's shoulder isn't so good. My ribs are sore but I can work -- today. Tomorrow Duke and I will be stiff and twice as sore. There are those steel bottles cluttering the hatch and plunder stored in the hole. Takes work. Boss, I say we've got to be sure of our escape -- while we're still in pretty good shape." "I hate to order heavy work. But you've convinced me." Hugh stood up, suppressing a groan. "Let's get busy." "Fve got one more suggestion." "So?" "You ought to sack in. You haven't been to bed at all and you got banged up pretty hard." "Fm okay. Duke has a bad shoulder, you've got cracked ribs. And there's heavy work to be done." "I plan to use block and tackle to skid those bottles aside. Barbara can help. She's husky, for a girl." "Certainly I can," agreed Barbara. "I'm bigger than Joe is. Excuse me, Joe." "No argument. Boss. Hugh. I don't like to emphasize it but  thought of this. You admit you're tired. Not surprising, you've been on the go twenty-four hours. Do you mind my saying that I would feel more confident you could get us through if you would rest?" Hugh grinned. "Ganging up on me. All right, I'll take a nap." A few minutes later he was in the bottom bunk in the men's dormitory, his feet braced against the foot board. He closed his eyes and was asleep before he could get his worries organized. D uke and Joe found that five of the bolts of the inned door were stuck. "We'll let them be," Joe decided. "We can always drift them back with a sledge hammer. Let's crank back the armor door." The armor door, beyond the bolted door, was intended to withstand as much blast as the walls. It was cranked into place, or out, by a rack and gear driven, by a long crank. Joe could not budge it. Duke, heavier by forty pounds, put his weight on it -- no results. Then they leaned on it together. "Frozen." "Yeah." "Joe you mentioned a sledge hammer." The young Negro frowned. "Duke, I would rather your father tried that. We could break the crank. Or a tooth on the rack." "The trouble is, we're trying to crang a ton or so of door up hill when it was meant to move on the level." "Yes. But this door always has been pesky." "What do we do?" "We get at the escape tunnel." IF A block and tackle was fastened to a hook in the ceiling; the giant bottles were hauled out of the jumble and stacked, with Barbara and Karen heaving on the line and the men guiding them and then bracing them so that the stack could not roll. When the middle of the floor was clear they were able to get at the manhole cover to the tunnel. It was the massive, heavey-traffic sort and the hook in the celling It came up, creaking. It swung suddenly because of the # out-ofplumb of everything, taking a nick out of Duke's shin and an oath out of Duke. The hole was packed with provisions. The girls dug them out, Karen, being smaller, going down inside as they got deeper and Barbara stocking the stuff. Karen stuck her head up. "Hey! Water boss! There's canned water here." "WeU, goody for me!" Joe said, 'T had forgotten that This hatch hasn't been opened since the shelter was stocked." 'Toe shall I knock out the braces?"  'T'U get 'em. You clear out the supplies. Duke, this isn't armored the way the door is. Those braces hold a piece of boiled plate against the opening, with the supplies behind it and the manhole cover holding it all down. Inside the tunnel, at ten-foot intervals, are walls of sand bags, and the mouth has dirt over it. Your father said the idea was to cofferdam a blast. Let it in, slow it down, a piece at a time." "We'll find those sand bags jammed against that boiler plate." "If so, we'll dig 'em out." "Why didn't he use real armor?" "He thought this was safer. You saw what happened to the doors. I would hate to have to pry loose a steel barrier in that tunnel." "I see. Joe, I'm sorry I ever called this place a 'hole in the ground.' " "Well, it isn't. It's a machine -- a survival machine." "I'm through," Karen announced. "Some gentleman help me up. Or you, Duke." "I'll put the lid on with you under it." Duke helped his sister to climb out. J oe climbed down, flinching at the strain on his ribs. Dr. Livingstone had been superintending. Now he followed his friend into the ihole, using Joe's shoulders as a landing. "Duke, if you'll hand me that sledge -- Slay out of the way, Doc. Get your tail down." "Want me to take him?" asked Karen. "No, he likes to be in on things. Somebody hold the light." The braces were removed and piled on the floor above. "Duke, I need the tackle now. I don't want to hoist the plate. Just take its weight so I can swing it back. It's heavy." "Here it comes." "That's good. Doc! Darn you. Doc! Get out from under my feet! Just a steady strain, Duke. Some body hand me the flashlight. I'll swing her back and have a look." "And get a face full of isotopes." "Have to chance it. A touch more -- That's got her, she's swinging free." Then Joe didn't say anything. At last Duke said, "What do you see?" "I'm not sure. Let me swing it back, and hand me one brace." "Right over your head. Joe, what do you see?" The Negro was swinging the plate back when suddenly he grunted. "Doc! Doc, come back here! That little scamp! Between my legs and into the tunnel. Doc.'" "He can't get far." "Well -- Karen, will you go wake your father?" "Damn it, Joe! What do you see?' "Duke, I don't know. That's why I need Hugh." "I'm coming down." "There isn't room. I'm coming up, so Hugh can go down." Hugh arrived as Joe scrambled out. "Joe, what do you have?" "Hugh, look for yourself." "Well -- I should have built a ladder for this. Give me a hand." Hugh went down, removed the brace, swung back the plate. He stared even longer than Joe had, then called up. "Duke! Let's heave this plate out." "What is it. Dad?" "Get the plate out, then you can come down." It was hoisted out; father and son exchanged places. Duke stared down the tunnel. "That's enough, Duke. Here's a hand," said Hugh extending his arm. Duke rejoined them; his father said, "What do you think?" "I don't believe it." "Daddy," Karen said tensely, "somebody is going to talk, or I'm going to wrap this sledge hammer right around somebody's thick skuU." "Yes, baby. Uh, there's room for you girls to go down together." Barbara was handed down by Duke and Hugh, she helped Karen down over her. Both girls scrunched down and looked. Karen said softly. "I'll be goldamed!" She started crawling into the tunnel. Hugh called out, "Baby! Come back!" Karen did not answer. He added, "Barbara, tell me what you see." "I see," Barbara said slowly, "a beautiful wooded hillside, green trees, bushes, and a lovely sunny day." "That's what we saw." "But it's impossible," "Yes." IF IV H ugh turned to his deputy "Joe, Pm going out. Get me a forty-five and a belt. I shouldn't have let those girls go out unarmed." He eased himself down the hole. "You two guard the place." His son said, "Against what? There's nothing to guard in here." His father hesitated. "I don't know. Just a spooky feeling. All right, cpme along. But arm yourself. Joe!" "Coming!" "Joe, arm Duke and yourself. Then wait until we get outside. If we don't come back right away, use your judgment This situation I hadn't anticipated. It just can't be, "But it is." "So it is, Duke." Hugh buckled on the pistol, dropped to his knees. Framed in the tunnel's mouth was still the vision of lush greenness where there should have been blasted countryside and crater glass. He started to crawl. He stood up and moved away from the mouth, then looked around. "Daddy! Isn't this lovely! Karen was below him oh a slope that ran down to a stream across it the land rose and Was covered with trees. On this side was a semi-clearing. The sky was blue, sunlight warm and bright, and there was no sign of war's devastation, nor any sign of man -- not a building, a road, a path, no contrails in the sky. It was wilderness, and there was nothing that he recognized. "Daddy. I'm going down to the creek." "Come here! Where's Barbara?" "Up here, Hugh." He turned and saw her up the slope, above the shelter. "I'm trying to figure out what happened. What do you think?" The shelter sat cocked on the slope, a huge square monolith. Dirt clung to it save where the tunnel had cracked off and a jagged place where the stair well had been. The armor door was exposed just above him. "I don't think," he admitted. Duke emerged, dragging a rifle. He stood up, looked around, and said nothing. Barbra and Karen joined them. Dr. Livingston I Presume came bounding up to tag Hugh on the ankle and dash away. Obviously the Persian gave the place full approval; it was just right for cats. Duke said, 'T give up. Tell me." Hugh did not answer. Karen said, 'Daddy, why can't I go down to the creek? I'm going to take a bath. I stink." "It won't hurt you to stink. I'm confused, I don't want to be confused still more by worrying about your drowning -- " "It's shallow." " -- or eaten by a bear or falling in quicksand. You girls go inside, arm yourselves, and then come out if you want to. But stick close and keep your eyes peeled. Tell Joe to come out." "Yes, sir." The girls went. "What do you think, Duke?" "Well'... I reserve my opinion." "If you have one, it's more than I have. Duke, I'm stonkered. I planned for all sorts of things. This wasn't on the list. If you have opinions, for God's sake spill them." "Well -- This looks like mountain oountry in Central America. Of course that's impossible." "No point in worrying about whether it's possible. Suppose it was Central America. What would you watch for?" "Let me see. Might be cougars. Snakes certainly, Tarantulas and corpions. Malaria mosquitoes. You mentioned bears." "I meant bears as a symbol. We're firing to have to watch everything, every minute, until we know what we're up against." oe came out carrying a rifle. He kept quiet and looked round. Duke said, "We won't itarve. Off to the left down by the Iream." Hugh looked. A dappled fawn, hardly waist high, was staring at them, apparently unafraid. Duke said, "Sh I drop it?" He raised the rifle. "No. Unless you are dead set on fresh meat." "All right. Pretty thing, isn't it?" "Very. But it's no North American deer I ever saw. Duke? Where are we? And how did we get here?" Duke gave a lopsided grin. "Dad, you appointed yourself Fuehrer. I'm not supposed to think." "Oh, rats!" "Anyhow, I don't know. Maybe the Russkis developed a hallucination bomb." "But would we all see the same thing?" "No opinion. But if I had shot that deer. I'll bet we could have eaten it." "I think so, too. Joe? Ideas, opinions, suggestions?" Joe scratched his head. "Mighty pretty country. But I'm a city boy." "One thing you can do, Hugh." "What, Duke?" "Your little radio. Try it." "Good idea." Hugh crawled inside, caught Karen about to climb down, sent her baciv Dr it. While he waited, he wondered what he had that was suitable for a ladder? Chinning themselves in a six-foot manhole was tedious. The radio picked up static but nothing else. Hugh switched it off. "We'll try it tonight. I've gotten Mexico with it at night, even Canada." He frowned. "Something ought to be on the air. Unless they smeared us completely." "Dad, you aren't thinking straight." "How, Duke?" IF "This area did not get smeared. "That's why I can't understand a radio silence." "Yet Mountain Springs really caught it. Ergo, we aren't in Mountain Springs." "Who said we were?" Karen answered. "There's nothing like this in Mountain Springs. Nor the whole state." Hugh frowned. "I guess that's obvious." He looked at the shelter, gross, huge, massive. "But where are we?" "Don't you read comic books. Daddy? We're on another planet." "Don't joke, baby girl. I'm worried." "I wasn't joking. There is nothing like this within a thousand miles of home -- yet here we are. Might as well be another planet. The one we had was getting used up. "Hugh," Joe said, "it sounds silly. But I agree with Karen." "Why, Joe?" "Well, we're someplace, .What happens when an H-bomb explodes dead on you?" "You're vaporized." "I don't feel vaporized. And I can't see that big hunk of concrete sailing a thousand miles or so, and crashing down with nothing to show for it but cracked ribs and a hurt shoulder. But Karen's idea -- " He shrugged. "Call it the fourth dimension. That last big one nudged us through the fourth dimension." Barbara said, "Karen, I don't see how this can be anything but Earth." "Why? Spoilsport." "Well -- " Barbara chucked a pebble at a tree. "That's a eucalyptus, and an acacia beyond it. Not at all like Mountain Springs but a normal grouping of tropical and subtropical flora. Unless your 'new planet evolved plants just like Earth, this has to be Earth." "Hubert! Hubert! Where are you? I can't find you!" Grace Fmham't voice echoed out the Uumd. Hugh ducked into the tunnel. "Coming!" T hey ate lunch under a tree a little distance from the shelter. Hugh decided that the tunnel had been buried so deeply that the chance of its mouth being more radioactive than the interior was negligible. As for the roof, he was not certain. So he placed a dosimeter (the only sort of radiation instrument that had come through the pummeling) on top of the shelter to compare it later with one inside. He was relieved to see that the dosimeters agreed that they had suffered less than lethal dosage -- although large -- and that they checked each other. The only other precaution he took was for them to keep guns by them -- all but his wife. Grace Farnham "couldn't stand guns," and resented having to eat with guns in sight. But she ate with good appetite. Duke had built a fire and they were blessed with hot coffee, hot canned beef, hot peas, hot canned sweet potatoes, and canned fruit salad -- and cigarettes with no worry about air or fire. "That was lovely," Grace admitted. "Hubert dear? Do you know what it would take to make it just perfect? You don't approve of drinking in the middle of the day but these are special circumstances and my nerves are still a teensy bit on edge -- so, Joseph, if you will fust run back inside and fetch a bottle of that Spanish brandy -- " "Grace." "What dear? -- then all of us could celebrate our miraculous escape. You were saying?" "Most of the liquor was broken. That brings up something else. Duke, you are out of a job as water boss. I'd like you to take over as bartender. There arc at least two unbroken fifths. Whatever you find, split it six ways and make it share and share alike, whether it's several bottles each, or just a part of a bottle." M rs. Farnham looked blank Duke looked uneasy. Karen aid hastily, "Daddy, you know what I said." "Oh, yes. Duke, your sister is on the wagon. So hold her share as a medicinal reserve. Unless she changes her mind." "I don't want the job," said Duke. "We have to divide up the chores, Duke. Oh yes, do the same with cigarettes. When they are gone, they're gone, whereas I have hopes that we can distill liquor later." He turned to his wife. "Why not have a Miltown, dear?" "Drugs! Hubert Farnham, are you telling me that I can't have a drink?" "Not at all. At least two fifths came through. Your share would be about a half pint. If you want a drink, go ahead." "Well! Joseph, run inside and fetch me a bottle of brandy." "No!" her husband countermanded. "If you want it, Grace, fetch it yourself." "Oh, shucks, Hugh, I don't mind." "I do. Grace, Joe's ribs are cracked. It hurts him to climb. You can manage the climb with those boxes as steps -- and you're the only one who wasn't hurt." "That's not true!" "Not a scratch. Everybody else was bruised or worse. Now about jobs. I want you to take over as cook. Karen will be your assistant Okay, Karen?" "Certainly, Daddy." "It will keep you both busy. Wcll build a grill and dutch oven, but it will be cook over a campfire and wash dishes in the creek for a while." "So? And will you please tell me Mr. Farnham, what Joseph is going to do in the meantime? To earn his wages?" "Will you please tell me, how we'll pay wages? Dear, dear -- can't you see that things have changed?" "Don't be preposterous! Joseph will get every cent coming to him and he knows it -- just as soon as this mess is straightened out. After all, we've saved his life. And we've always been good to him, he won't mind waiting. Will you, Joseph?" "Grace! Quiet down and listen. Joe is no longer our servant. He is our partner in adversity. We'll never pay him wages again. Quit acting like a child and face the facts. We re broke. We're never going to have any money again. Our house is gone. My business is gone. The Mountain Exchange Bank is gone. We're wiped out... save for what we IF tored in the her. But we are kicky. We're alive and by some miracle have a chance of scratching a Mving out of the ground. Lucky. Do you understand?" 'Oh!" She burst into tears and fled into the shelter. Her behind was disappearing when Duke got up to follow. His father stopped him. "Duke!" "Yes." "One word and you can join your mother. I'm going exploring, I want you to go with me." Duke hesitated. "All right." "We'll start shortly. I think your job should be 'hunter.' You're a better shot than I am and Joe has never hunted. What do you think?" "Uh -- All right." "Good. Well, go soothe her down and, Duke, see if you can make her see the facts." "Maybe. But I agree with Mother. You were bullying her." "As may be. Go ahead." D uke turned abruptly and then left. Karen said quietly, "I Aink so, too. Daddy. You were bullying..." "I intended to. I judged it called for bullying. Karen, if I hadn't tromped on it, she would do no work... and would order Joe around, treat him as a hired cook." "Shucks, Hugh, I don't mind cooking. It was a pleasure to rustle lunch." "She's a better cook than you arc, Joe, and she's going to cook. Don't let me catch you fetching and carrying for her." The younger man grinned. "You won't catch me." "Better not. Or I'll skin you and nail it to the barn. Barbara, what do you know about farming?" "Very little." "You're a botanist." "No, I simply might have been one, some day." "Which makes you eight times as much of a farmer as the rest of us. I can barely tell a rose from a dandelion; Duke knows even less and Karen thinks you dig potatoes out of gravy. You heard Joe say he was a city boy. But we have seeds and a small supply of fertilizers. Also garden tools and books about farming. Look over what we've got and find a spot for a garden. Joe and I will do the spading and such. But yu will have to boss." Hugh and his son left a half hour later. "Joe," Hugh cautioned, "we plan to be back before dark but if we get caught, we'll keep a fire going all night and come back tomorrow. If you do have to search for us, don't go alone; take one of the girls. No, take Karen; Barbara has no shoes, just some spike-heeled sandals. Damn. Moccasins -- we'll have to make. Got it?" "Sure." "We'll head for that hill -- that one. I want to get high enough to get the lay of the land and maybe spot signs of civilization." They set out -- rifles, canteens, hand ax, machete, matches, iron rations, compasses, binoculars, mountain boots, coveralls. Coveralls and boots fitted Duke as well as Hugh; Duke found that his father had stocked clothes for him. They took turns, with the men following blazing trail and counting paces, the leader keeping lookout, compass direction, and record. The high hill Hugh had picked was across the stream. They explored its bank and found a place to wade. Everywhere they flushed game. The miniature deer were abundant and apparently had never been hunted. By man, at least -- Duke saw a mountain lion and twice they saw bears. I t seemed to be about three oclock local time as they approached the fummit. The climb was steep, cluttered with under growth and neither man was in training. When they reached the flattish summit Hugh wanted to lay on the ground. Instead he looked around. To the east the ground dropped off. Ho tared out over miles of prairie. He could see no sign of human life. He adjusted his binoculars and tarted searching. He saw moving figures, decided that they were antelope -- or cattle; he made mental note that these herds must he watched. Later, later -- "Hugh?" He lowered his binoculars. "Yes, Duke?" "See that peak? It's fourteen tiiousand one hundred and ten feet high." "I won't argue." "That's Mount James. Dad, wcre home!" "What do you mean?" "Look southwest. Those three gendarmes on that profile. The middle one is where I broke my leg when I was thirteen. That pointed mountain between there and Mount . # James -- Hunter's Hcurn. Can't you see? The skyline is as distinctive as a finger print. This is Mountain Springsl" Hugh stared. This skyline ho knew. His bedroom window was planned to let him see It at dawn; many sunsets he had watched it from his roof. "Yes." "Yes," Duke agreed. "Damned if I know how. But as I figure it -- " he stomped the ground -- "we're on the high reservoir. Where it ought to be." His brow wrinkled. "And as near as I can tell, our shelter i smack on our lot. Hugh took out the notebook in which was recorded paces and compasses courses, did some arithmetic. "Yes. Within the limits of error." "Well? How do you figure it?" Hugh looked at the skyline. "I don't. Duke how much daylight do we have?" "Well... three hours. The sun will be behind the mountains in two." "It took two hours to get here; we should make it back in less. Do you have any cigarettes?" "Yes." "May I have one? Charged against me, of course. I would like to rest about one cigarette, then start back." He looked around. "It's open up here. I don't think a bear would approach us." He placed his rifle and belt on the ground, settled down. Duke offered a cigarette to his father, look one himself. "Dad, you're a cold fish. Nothing excites you." "So? I'm so excitable that I had to karn never to give into it." IF "Doesn't seem that way to other people." TTiey smoked in silence, Duke seated, Hugh sprawled out. He was close to exhaustion and wished that he did not have to hike back. Presently Duke added, "Besides that, you enjoy bullying." His father answered, "I suppose so, if you class what I do as bullying. No one ever does anything but what he wants to do -- 'enjoys' -- within the possibilities open to him. If I change a tire, it's because I enjoy it more than being stranded." "Don't get fancy. You enjoy bullying Mother. You enjoyed spanking me as a kid... until Mother put her foot down and made you stop." His father said, "We had better start back." "Just a second. I want to show you something. Never mind your gear, this won't take a moment." Hugh stood up. "What is it?" "Just this. Your Captain Bligh act is finished." He clouted his father. "That's for bullying Mother!" He clouted him from the other side and harder, knocking his father off his feet. "And that's for having that nigger pull a gun on me!" H ugh Farnham lay where he had fallen. "Not 'nigger,' Duke. Negro." "He's a Negro as long as he behaves himself. Pulling a gun on me makes him a goddam nigger. You can get up. I won't hit you again." Hugh Farnham got to his feet. "Let's start back." "Is that all you've got to say? Go ahead. Hit me. I won't hit back." "No." "I didn't break my parole. I waited until we left the shelter." "Conceded. Shall I lead? Better, perhaps." "Do you think I'm afraid you might shoot me in the back? Look, Dad, I had to do it!" "Did you?" "Hell, yes. For my own self respect." "Very well." Hugh. buckled on his belt, picked up his gun, and headed for the last blaze. They hiked in silence. At last Duke said, "Dad?" "Yes, Duke?" "I'm sorry." "Forget it." They went on, found where they had forded the stream, crossed it. Hugh hurried as it was growing darker. Duke closed up again. "Just one thing. Dad? Why didn't you assign Barbara as cook? She's the freeloader. Why pick on Mother?" Hugh took his time in answering. "Barbara is no more a freeloader than you are, Duke, and cooking is the only thing Grace knows. Or were you suggesting that she loaf while the rest of us work?" "No. Oh, we all have to pitch in -- granted. But no more bullying, no more bawling Mother out in public. Understand me?" "Duke." "Yeah?" "I've been studying karate three afternoons... week... the past year." "So?" "Don't try it again. Shooting me in the back is safer." "I hear you." "Until you decide to shoot me, it would be well to accept my leadership. Or do you wish to the responsibility?" "Are you offering it? "I am not in a postdon to. Perhaps the group wnikl accept you. Your mother would. Possibly yow sister would prefer you. Concerning Barbara and Joe I offer no opinion. "How about you, Dad?' "I won't answer that; I owe you nothing. But until you decide to make a bid for leadership, I expect showed under parole." "In the long run there is no other sort. I can't quell a mutiny every few hours -- and I've had two from you plus an utter lack of discipline from your mother. No leader can function on those terms. So I will Includes no interference should I decide again to use what you call bullying.' " "Now see here, I told you I would sot stand for -- " "Quiet! Unless you make up your asind to that, your safest choice is in shoot me in the back. Don't come at me with bare hands nor risk giving me a chance to shoot first. At #be next sign of trouble, Duke, I will kfll you. If possible. One of us will surely be killed." They trudged along in silence, Mr. Farnham never looking back. At last Duke said, "Dad, for Christ's sake, why can't you run things democratically? I don't want to boss Ihings, I simply want you to be fair about it." "Mmm, you don't want to boss. You want to be a backseat driver -- with a veto over the driver." "Notsf I simply want tilings run democratically." "You do? Shall we vote on idiether Grace k to work like die rest of us? Whether she shall hog the liquor? Shall we use Robert's Rules of Order? Should she withdraw while we debate it? Or should she stay and defend herself against charges of indolence and drunkenness? Do you wish to submit your mother to such ignominy?" "Don't be silly!" "I am trying to find out what you mean by 'democratically.' If you mean putting every decision to a yourself to abide by every majority decision. You're welcome to run for chairman. I'm sick of the responsibility and I know that Joe does not like being my deputy." "That's another thing. Why should Joe have any voice in these matters?" "I thought you wanted to do it 'democratically'?" "Yes, but he is -- " "What, Duke? A 'nigger'? Or a servant?" "You've got a nasty way of putting things." "You've got nasty ideas. We'll try formal democracy -- rules of order, debate, secret ballot, everything -- any time you want to try such foolishness. Especially any time you want to mutiny and move a vote of no confidence and take over the leadership... and I'm so bitter as to hope that you succeed. In the meantime we do have a good democracy." "How do you figure?" "I'm serving by consent of the mair jority -- four to two, I think. But that doesn't suit me; I want it to be unanimous, I can't put up indefinitely with wrangling from the minority. You and your mother, I mean. I want it to be five to one before we get back, with your assurance that you will not interfere in my efforts to persuade, or cajole, or bully, your mother into accepting her share of the load -- until you care to risk a vote of no confidence." "You're asking me to agree to thatr cipline on your part... or at the next clash one of us will be killed, I won't give you the slightest warning. That's why your safest course is to shoot me in the back." "Quit talking nonsense! You know I won't shoot you in the back." "So? I will shoot you in the back or anywhere at the next hint of trouble. Duke, I can see only one alternative. If you find it impossible you don't think you can displace me, if you can't bring yourself to kill me, if you don't care to risk a clash in which one of us will be killed, then there is still a peaceful solution." "What is it?" "Any time you wish, you can leave. I'll give you a rifle, ammunition, salt, matches, a knife, whatever you find needful. You don't deserve them but I won't turn you out with nothing." Duke gave a bitter laugh. "Sending me out to play Robinson Crusoe... and leaving all the women with you!" "Oh, no! Any who wish arc fret' to go. With a fair share of anything and some to boot. All three womei if you can sell the idea." "I'll think about it." "Do. And do a little politicking and size up your chances of winning a vote against me 'democraticall -- while being extraordinarily careful not to cross wills .with me and thereby bring on a showdown sooner than you wish. I warn you, I'm feeling very short-tempered; you loosened one of my teeth." "I didn't mean to." "That wasn't the way it felt There's the shelter; you can start ing that we've had a lovely afternoon." "Look, Dad, if you won't mention -- " "Shut up. I'm sick of you." A s they neared the shelter Karen saw them and yoohooed; Joe and Barbara came crawling out the tunnel. Karen waved her shovel. "Come see what I've done!" She had dug privies, on each side of the shelter. Saplings formed frameworks which had been screened by tacking cardboard from liquor cases. Seats had been built of lumber remnants from the tank room. "Well?" demanded Karen. Aren't they gorgeousT "Yes," agreed Hugh. "Much more lavish than I had expected." He refrained from saying that they had cost most of the lumber. "I didn't do it all. Barbara did the carpentry. You should hear her swear when she hits her thumb." "You hurt your thumb, Barbara?" "It'll get welL Come try the ladder." "Sure thing." He started inside, Joe stopped him. "Hugh, while we've still got light, how about seeing something?" "All right. What?" "The shelter. You've been talking about building a cabin. Suppose we do: What do we have? A mud floor and a roof that leaks, no glass for windows and no doors. Seems to me the shelter is better." "Well, perhaps," agreed Hugh. "I had thought we could use it while pioneering, if we had to." "I don't think it's too radioactive, Hugh. That dosimeter should have gone sky high if the roof is really hot.' It hasn't." "That's good news. But, Joe, look at it. A slant of thirty degrees is uncomfortable. We need a house with a level floor." "That's what I mean. Hugh, that hydraulic jack -- it's rated at thirty tons. How much does the shelter weigh?" "Oh. Let me think how many yards of mix we used and how much steel." Hugh pondered it, got out his notebook. "Call it two hundred fifty tons." "Well, it was an idea." "Maybe it's a good idea." Hugh prowled around the shelter, a block twenty feet square and twelve high, iizing up angles, estimating yardiges. "It can be done," Hugh decided. "We dig under on the uphill side, to .he center line, cutting out enough o let that side settle down level. #amn, I wish we had power tools." "How long will it take?" Two men oond do it in a week if they didn't run into solid rock. With no dynamite a boulder can be a problem." "Too much of a problem?" "Always some way to cope. Let's pray we don't run into solid rock. As we get it dug out, we brace it with logs. At the end we snag the logs out with block and tackle. Then we put the jack under the downhill side and tilt it into place, shore it up and fill with what we've removed. Lots of sweat." "I'll start bright and early tomorrow." "You will like hell. Not until your ribs have healed. I will start tomorrow, with two husky girls. Plus Duke, if his shoulder isn't sore, after he shoots us a deer; we've got to conserve canned goods. Reminds me -- what was done with the dirty cans?" "Buried 'em." "Dig them up and wash them. A tin can is more valuable than gold; we'll use them for all sorts of things. Let's go in. I've still to admire the ladder." T he ladder was two trimmed saplings, with treads cut from boards and notched and nailed. Hugh reflected again that lumber had been used too lavishly; treads should have been fashioned from things that could no longer be ordered by picking up a telephone. "Thaft a beautiful ladder, Barbma!" She looked very pleased. "Joe did tile hard parts." I did not," Joe denied. "I just IF gave advice and touched up with the chisel." "Well, whoever did it, it's lovely. Now we'll see if it will take my weight." "Oh, it will!" Barbara said proudly The shelter had all lights burning. Have to caution them about batteries, too. Must tell the girls to look up how to make candles. "Where' Grace, Karen?" "Mother isn't well. She's lying down." "So? You had better start dinner." Hugh went into the women's bay, saw what sort of not-well his wife suffered. She was sleeping heavily, mouth open, snoring, and was fully dressed. He reached down, peeled back an eyelid; she did not stir. "Duke." "Yes?" "Come here. Everybody else outside." Duke joined him. Hugh said, "After lunch, did you give Grace a drink?" "Huh? You didn't say not to." "I wasn't criticizing. How much?" "Just a highball. An ounce and a half of Scotch, with water." "Does that look like one highball? Try to rouse her." Duke tried, then straightened up. "Dad, I know you think I'm a fool. But I gave her just one drink. D amn it. I'm more opposed to her drinking than you are!" "Take it easy, Duke. I assume that she got at the bottle after you left." "Well, maybe." Duke frowned. "As soon as I found an unbroken bottle I gave Mother that drink. Then I took inventory. I think I found it all, unless you have some hidden away -- " "No, the cases were together." "Right. I found thirteen unbroken bottles, twelve fifths and a quart of bourbon. I remember thinking that was two fifths each and the quart I would keep in reserve. I had opened one bottle of King's Ransom. I made a pencil mark on it. We'll know if she found it." "You hid the liquor?" "I stashed it in the upper bunk on the other side; I figured it would be hard for her to climb up there. I'm not a complete fool, Dad. She couldn't see me, she was in her bunk. But maybe she guessed." "Let's check." T hirteen bottles were between springs and mattress; twelve nearly full. Duke held it up. "See? Right to the line. But there was another bottle we had a snort from, after that second bombing. What happened to it?" "Barbara and I had some after you went to sleep, Duke. There was some left. I never saw it again. It was in the tank room." "Oh! I did, while we were bailing. Busted. I give up -- where did she get it?" "She didn't, Duke." "What do you mean?" "It wasn't liquor." Hugh went to the medicines drawer, got a bottle with a broken seal. "Count these seconal capsules. You had two last night." "Yeah." "Karen had one at bedtime, one later; Joe had one. Neither Barbara nor I had any, nor Grace. Five." "Hold it, Vm counting." His father began to count as Duke pushed them aside. "Ninety-one," Duke announced. "Check." Hugh put the capsules back. "So she took four." "What do we do, Dad? Stomach pump? Emetic?" "Nothing." "Why, you heartless -- She tried lo kill herself!" "Slow down, Duke. She did nothing of the sort. Four capsules, six grains, simply produces stupor in a healthy person -- and she's healthy as a horse; she had a physical a month ago. No, she snitched those pills to get drunk on." Hugh scowled. "An alcohol drunk is bad enough. But people kill themselves without meaning to with sleeping pills." "Dad, what do you mean, 'she look them to get drunk on'?" "You don't use them?" "I never had one in my life untO those two last night." "Do you remember how you felt just before you went to sleep? Warm and happy and woozy?" "No. I just lay down and konked out. Next thing I knew I was against Ihe wall on my shoulders." "You haven't developed tolerance for them. Grace knows what they can do. A very hapy drunk. I've known her to take more than one but she's never been chopped off from liquor before. When a person eats sleeping pills because he can't get liquor, he's in a bad way -- a very bad way." "Dad, you should have kept liquor away from her long ago!" "How, Duke? Tell her she couldn't have a drink? Take them away from her at parties? Quarrel with her in public? Fight with her in front of Joe? Not let her have cash, close out her bank account, see that she had no credit? Would that have stopped her from pawning furs?" "Mother would never have done that" "It's typical behavior in such cases. Duke, it is impossible to keep liquor away from any adult who is determined to have it. The United States government wasn't that powerful. I'll go further. It is impossible for anyone to be responsible for another person's behavior." "Uh... that's beside the point. What do we do now?" "So it is, counselor. Well, we keep these pills away from her." "And I'm damned well going to chop off the liquor completely!" "Oh, I wouldn't." "You wouldn't, em? Did I hear correctly when you said I was liquor boss?" "The decision is up to you. I simply said that I wouldn't. I think it's a mistake." "Well, I don't. Dad, I won't go into the matter of whether you could, or should, have stopped Mother from getting the way she is. But I intend to stop it." V ery well, Duke. Mmm, she's going to be cut off anyhow in a matter of days. It might be easier to taper her off. It you decide to, Pll contribute a bottle from my share. IF Hell, you can have both of mine. I like a snort as well as the next man. But Grace needs it." "That won't be necessary," his son said crisply. "I'm not going to let her have any. Get it over with, she'll be well that much sooner." "Your decision. May I offer a suggestion?" "What?" "In the morning, be up before she is. Move the liquor out and bury it, someplace known only to you. Then have open one bottle at a time and dispense it by the ounce. Tell the others to drink where she can't see it. You had better ditch the open bottle outdoors, too." "Sounds reasonable." "But that makes it all the more urgent to keep sleeping pills away from her." "Bury them?" "No. We need them inside, and it's not just sleeping pills. Demerol. Hypodermic needles. Several drugs, some poisonous and some addictive and all irreplaceable. If she can't find seconal -- five bottles of a hundred each, it's bulky -- there's no telling what she might get into. We'll use the vault." "Eh?" "A little safe set into concrete back of that cupboard. Nothing in it but birth certificates and such, and some reserve ammo, and two thousand silver dollars. Toss the money in with the hardware, we'll use it as metal. The combo is 'July #th, #' -- '#-#-#.' Better change it, Grace may know it." "At once!" "No rush, she won't wake up. 'Reserve ammo -- ' Duke, you were liquor and cigarette boss and now you are drugs boss. I'm going whole hog, you are rationing officer. Responsible for everything that can't be replaced: liquor, tobacco, ammunition, nails, toilet tissue, matches, dry cells, Kleenex, needles -- " "Good God! Got any more dirty jobs?" "Lots of them. Duke, I'm trying to make it each according to his talents. Joe is too diffident -- and ha missed obvious economies today. Karen doesn't think ahead. Barbara feels like a freeloader even though she's not, she wouldn't crack down. I would, but I'm swamped. You are a natural for it; you don't hesitate to assert yourself. And you have foresight when you take the trouble to use it." "Thank you too much. All right." "The hardest thing to drill into them will be saving every scrap of metal and paper and cloth and lumber, things Americans have wasted for years. Fish hooks. Groceries aren't as important; we'll replace them, you by hunting, Barbara by gardening. Nevertheless better note what can't be replaced. Salt. You must ration salt especially." "Salt?" "Unless you run across a salt lick in hunting. Salt -- Damn it, we're going to have to tan leather. All I used to do with a hide was rub it with salt and give it to the taxidermist. Im salt necessary?" "I don't know." "I'll look it up. Damnation, we're going to find that I failed to stock endless things we'll be miserable without." #f "Dad," Duke admitted, "I think you've done mighty well." "So? That's pleasant to hear. We'll manage to -- " "Yes?" Hugh went to the tank room. Karen's head stuck up out of the manhole. "Daddy, can we please come in? It's dark and scary and something big chased Doc in. Joe won't let us until you say." # #Qorry Baby. Everybody come O in. And we'll put the lid on." "Yes, sir. But Daddy, you ought to look outside. Stars. The Milky Way like a neon sign! And the Big Dipper -- so maybe this isn't another planet? Or would we still see the Big Dipper?" "I'm not certain." He recalled that the discovery that they were still in James County, Mountain Spring area, had not been shared. But Duke must tell k; it was his deduction. "Duke, want to take a look before we close up?" "Thanks, I've seen a star." "As you wish." Hugh went outside waited while his eyes adjusted, saw that Karen was right: Never before bad he seen the heavens on a clear mountain night with no other light, nor trace of smog, to dim its glory. "Beautiful!" Karen slipped her hand into his. "Yes," she agreed. "But I could use ome street lights. There are things out there. And we heard coyotes." "There are bears and Duke saw a mountain lion. Joe, better keep the cat in at night, and try to keep him close in the daytime." "He won't go far, he's timid. And something just taught him a lesson." "And me, too!" announced Karen "Bears! Come, Barbie, let's go ul D addy, if the Moon comes up, thk must be Earth -- and I'll never trust a comic book again." "Go ask your brother." Duke's discovery was the main subject at dinner. Karen's disappointment was offset by her interest in how they had mislaid Mountain Spfings. "Duke, are you sure you saw what you thought you saw?" "No possible mistalce," Hugh answered for him. "If it weren't for the trees, you could have spotted it. We had to climb Reservoir Hill to get a clear view." "You were gone all that time just to Reservoir Hill? Why, that's only five minutes away!" "Duke, explain to your sister about automobiles." "I think the bomb did it," Barbara said suddenly. "Why, certainly. Barb. The question is howT "I mean the enormous H-bomb the Russians claimed to have in orbit. The one they called the 'Cosmic Bomb.' I think it hit us." ## on, Barbara." Vj'"Well, the first bomb was awful and the second one was bad; they almost burned us up. But the third one just hit us whammy! and then no noise, no heat, no rumbling, and the radioactivity got less instead of worse. Here's my notion: You've worlds side by side, almost alike but not quite? Worlds where Elizabeth married Essex and Mark Anthony hntid redheads? And Ben Franklin IF fot electrocuted with his kite? Well, this is one." "First automobiles and now Benjamin Franklin. ##I go watch Ben Casey. "Like this, Karen. The Cosmic Bomb hits us, dead on -- and kicks us into the next world. One exactly like the one we were in, except that it never had men in it. "I'm not sure I like a world with no men. I'd rather have a strange planet, with warlords riding thoats. Or is it zitidars?" "What do you think of my theory, Hugh?" "I'm keeping an open mind. I'll go thi far: We should not couit on finding other human beings." "I go for your theory, Barbara," Duke offered. "It accounts for the facts. Squeezed out like a melon seed. Pht!" "And we landed here." Duke shrugged. "Let it be known as the Barbara Wells Theory of Cosmic Transportation and stand adopted. Here we are. We're stuck with it -- and I'm going to bed. Who sleeps where, Hugh?" "Just a second. Folks, meet the Rationing Officer. Take a bow, Duke." Hugh explained the austerity program.' "Duke will work it out but that's the idea. For example, I noticed a bent nail on the ground in the powder room. That calls for being spreadeagled and flogged. For a serious offense, such as wasting a match, it's keelhauling. Second offence -- hang him at the yardarm I" "Gee! Do we get to watch?" "Shut up, Karen. No punishments, just the miserable knowledge that you have deprived the rest of something necessary to life, health, or comfort. So don't give Duke any backtalk. I want to make another assignment. Baby, you know shorthand." "That's putting it strongly. Mr. Gregg wouldn't think so." "Hugh, I take shorthand. What do you want?" "Okay, Barbara, you are historian. Today is Day One. Or start with the calendar we are used to, but we may adjust it; those were winter stars. Every night jot down the events and put it in longhand later. Your title is Keeper of the Flame. As soon as possible, you really will be Keeper of the Flame; we will have to light a fire, then bank it every night. Sorry to have held you up, Duke." T hey got ready for bed. Hugh was pleased to see that Joe undressed completely and got into the lower bunk, as he had been told to. Duke stretched out on the floor, bare. The room was hot; the mass cooled slowly and air no longer circulated with the manhole cover in place, despite the vents in the tank room. Hugh made note that he must devise a bearproof -- and catproof -- gried in place of the cover. Later, later -- He took the camp lamp into the tank room. Someone had put the books back on shelves but some were open to dry; he fluffed these, hoped for the best. The last books in the world -- So it seemed. He felt sudden grief that abstract not given him. Somehow, the burnpeople. All men must die, it was their single common heritage. But a book need never die and should not be killed; books were the immortal part of man. Book burners -- To rape a defenseless friendly book. Books had always been his best friends. In a hundred public libraries they had taught him. From a thousand newsstands they had warmed his loneliness. He suddenly felt that, if he had not been able to save some books, it would hardly be worthwhile to live. Most of his collection was functional: The Encyclopedia Britannica -- Grace had thought the space should be used for a television receiver "because they might be hard to buy afterwards.' He had grudged its business too, but it was the most compact assemblage of knowledge on the market. "Che" Guevera's War of the Guerrillas -- thank God he wasn't going to need that! Nor those next to it: "Yank" Levy's manual on resistance fighting, Griffith's Translation of Mao Tse-tung's On Guerrilla Warfare, Tom Wintringham's New Ways of War, the new TR on special operations -- forget 'em! Aint a-gonna study war no more! Tht Boy Scout Handbook, Eshbach's Mechanical Engineering, The Radio Repairman's Guide, Outdoor Life's Hunting and Fishing, Edible Fungi and How to Know Them, Home Life in the Colonial Days, Your Log Cabin, Chimneys and Fireplaces, The Hobo's Cook Book Medicine Without a Doctor, Fif Acres and Independence, Russiam Self-Taught and English-Russian and Russian English dictionaries. The Complete Herbalist, the survival manuals of the Navy Bureau of Weapons, The Air Force's Survival Techniques, The Practical Carpenter -- all sound books, of the brown and useful sort. The Oxford V'erse, A Treasury of American Poetry, Hoyle's Book of Games, Burton's Anatony of Melancholy, a different Burton's Thousand Nights and a Night, the good old Odyssey with the Wyeth illustrations, Kipling's Collected Verse and his Just So Stories, a one-volume Shakespeare, the Book of Common Prayer, the Bible, Mathematical Recreations and Essays, Thus Spake Zarathustra,, T. S. Eliot's The Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats, Robert Frost's Verse, Men Against the Sea -- He vished that he had found time to stock the list of fiction he had started. He wished that he had fetched down his works of Mark Twain regardless of space. He wished -- Too late, too late. This was it. All that was left of a mighty civilization. "The cloud-capped towers. He jerked awake and found that he had fallen asleep standing up. Why had he come in here? Something important. Oh, yes! Tanning leather -- Leather? Barbara was barefooted, Barbara must have moccasins. Better try the Britannica. Or that Colonial Days volume, thank God, you didn't have IF to use saJtl Find some oak trees. Better yet, have Barbara find them; it would make her feel useful. Find something that only Joe could do, too; make the poor little bastard feel appreciated. Loved. Remember to -- He stumbled back into the main room, looked at the upper bunk and knew that he couldn't make it. He lay down on the edge of Duke's blanket and fell instantly asleep. V G race did not get up for breakfast. The girls quietly fed them, then stayed in to clean up. Duke went hunting, carrying a forty-five, and a hunting bow. It was his choice; arrows could be recovered or replaced, bullets were gone forever. Duke tried a few flights and decided that his shoulder was okay. He checked watches and set out, with an understanding that a smoky fire would be built to home on if he was not back by three. Hugh told the girls to take outdoors any book not bone dry, then broke out quick the shovel and started leveling their house. Joe tried to join him; Hugh vetoed it. 'Took, Joe, there are a thousand things to do. Do them. But no heavy work." "Such as what, Hugh?" "Uh, correct the inventories. Give Duke a hand by starring everything that can't be replaced. In the course of that you'll think of things; write them down. Look up how to make soap and candles. Check both dosimeters. Strap on a gun and keep your eyes open -- and see that those girls don't go outside without guns. Hell, figure out a way to get plumbing and running water, with no pipe and no lead and no water closets and no portland cement." "How in the world could you do that?" "Somebody did it the first time. And tell this bush-tailed sidewalk superintendent that I need no help." "Okay. Come here. Doc! Come, come, come!" "And Joe. Speaking of bathrooms, you might offer to stand guard for the girls while they bathe. You don't have to look." "All right. I'll offer. But I'U teU them you suggested it. I don't want them to think -- " "Look, Joe. They are a couple of clean, wholesome, evil-minded American girls. Say what you please, they will still believe you are sneaking a peek. It's part of their credo that they are so fatally irresistible that a man just has to. So don't be too convincing; you'll hurt their feelings." "I get it. I guess." Joe went away, Hugh started digging, while reflecting that he had never missed a chance, given opportunity without loss of face -- but that incorrigible Sunday School lad probably would not sneak a peek at Lady Godiva. A good lad -- no imagination but utterly dependable. Very quickly Hugh knew what his worst oversight had been: no wheelbarrow. He had dug only a little before reaching this new appreciation. Digging by muscle power was bad but carrying it away in buckets was an affront to good sense. So he carried and thought about how to build a wheel -- with no metal, no heating tools, no machine shop, no foundry, no -- Now wait! He had steel bottles. There was strap iron in the bunks and soft iron in the periscope housing. Charcoal he could make and a bellows was simply an animal skin and some branches. Whittle a nozzle. Any dam fool who couldn't own a wheel with all that was at his disposal deserved to lift and carry. He had ten thousand trees, didn't he? Finland didn't have a damn thing but trees. Yet Finland was the finest little country in the world. "Doc, get out from under my feet!" If Finland was still there. Wherever the world was. Maybe the girls would like a Finnish bath. Down where they could plunge in afterwards and squeal and feel good. Poor kids, they would never see a beauty parlor; maybe a sauna would be a "moral equivalent." Grace might like it. Sweat off that blubber, get her slender again. What a beauty she had been! Barbara showed up, with a shovel. "Where did you get that? And what do you think you're doing?" "It's the one Duke was using. I'm going to dig."  "In bare feet? You're era -- Hey, you're wearing shoes!" "Joe's. The jeans are his, too. The shirt is Karen's. Where shall I dig?" "Just beyond me, here. Any boulder over five hundred pounds, ask for help. Where's Karen?" "Bathing. I decided to stink worst and bathe lat-." "When you like. Don't try to stick on this job all day. You can't." "I like working with you, Hugh. Almost as much as -- " She let it hang. "As playing bridge?" "Yes, you could mention that too." "Barbie girl." He found that just digging was fun. Gave the mind a rest and the muscles a workout. Happy making. Hadn't tried it for much too long. B arbara had been digging an hour when Mrs. Farnham came around a corner. Barbara said, "Good morning," added a shovelful to a bucket, picked both up half filled, and disappeared around the other corner. Grace Farnham said, "Well! I wondered where you were hiding. I was left quite alone. Do you realize that?" She was in the clothes she had slept in. Her features looked puffy. "You were allowed to sleep, dear." "It isn't pleasant to wake up in a strange place alone. I'm not accustomed to it." "Grace, you weren't being slighted. You were being pampered." "Is that what you call it? Then we'll say no more about it, do you mind?" "Not at all." "Really?" She seemed to brace herself, tihen said bleakly, "Perhaps you can stop long enough to tell me where you have hidden my liquor. My liquor. My share. I wouldn't IF ttdnk of toudimg yours -- after the way you've treated me! In front of ervants and strangers, may I add?" "Grace, you must sec Duke." What do you mtanV "Duke is in charge of liquor. I don't know where he put it." Youre lyingr "Grace, I haven't lied to you in twenty-seven years." "'Oh! You brutal, brutal man!" "Perhaps. But I'm not lying and the next time you say I am, it will go hard with you." "Where's Duke? He won't let you talk to me that wayl He told me so, he promised me!" "Duke has gone hunting. He hopes to be back by three." She stared, then rushed back around the comer. Barbara reappeared, picked up her shovel. They went on working. Hugh said, "I'm sorry you were exposed to that." "To what?" "Unless you were at least a hundred yards away, you know what" "Hugh, it's none of my business." "Under these conditions, anything is everybody's business. You have formed a bad opinion of Grace." "Hugh, I would not dream of being critical of your wife." "You have opinions. But I want you to have one in depth. Visualize her as she was, oh, twenty-five years ago. Think of Karen." "She would have looked like Karen." "Yes. But Karen has never had responsibility. Grace had and took it well. I was an enlisted man; I wasn't commissioned until after Pearl Harbor. Her people were what is known as 'good family.' Not anxious to have their daughter marry a penniless enlisted man." "I suppose not." "Nevertheless she did. Barbara, have you any notion what it was to be the wife of a junior enlisted man in those days? With no money? Grace's parents wanted her to come home -- but would not send her a cent as long as she stuck with me. She stuck." "Good for Grace." "Yes. She had no preparation for living in one room and sharing a bath down the hall, nor for waiting in Navy out-patient clinics. For making a dollar go twice as far as it should. For staying alone while I was at sea. Young and pretty and in Norfolk, she could have found excitement. She found a job instead -- in a laundry, sorting dirty clothes. And whenever I was home she was bright and cheerful and uncomplaining. Alexander was born the next year -- " " 'Alexander'?" #Tuke. Named for his mater-L nal grandpappy; I didn't get a vote. Her parents were anxious to make up once they had a grandson; Grace stayed cool and never accepted a cent -- back to work with our landlady minding the baby in weeks. "Those years were the roughest. I went up fast and money wasn't such a problem. The war came and I was bucked from chief to j.g. and ended as a lieutenant commander in Seabees. In # I had to choose between going back to chief or becoming a civilian. With Grace's backing, I got out. So I was on the beach with no job, a wife, a son in grammar school, a three-year-oki daughter, living in a trailer, prices high and going higher. We had some war bonds and a little that we had managed to put in the bank. "That was the second rough pkd. I took a stab at contracting, lost our savings, went to work for a water company. We didn't starve but scraped icebox and dishrag soup were on the menu. Barbara, she tood it like a trouper -- a hardworking den mother, a pillar of the "I was a construction boss before long and presently I tried contracting again. This time it clicked. I built a house on spec and a shoe string, sold it before it was finished end built two more at once. We've never been broke since," he paused until now." Hugh Farnham looked puzzled. "That was when she started to slip. When she started having help. When we kept liquor in the house. We didn't quarrel -- we never did, save over the fact that I tried to raise Duke fairly strictly and Grace couldn't bear to have the boy touched. "But that was when it started, when I started making money. She isn't built to stand prosperity. Grace has always stood up to adversity magnificently. This is the first time he hasn't. I still think she will." "Of course she will, Hugh." "I hope so." "I'm glad to know more about her, Hugh. I'll try to be considerate." "Damn it, I'm not asking that. I just want you to know that fat and foolish and self-centered isn't all there is to Grace. Nor was her slipping entirely her fault. Fm not easy to live with, Barbara." "So?" "So! When we were able to slow down, I didn't. I let business keep me away evenings. When a woman is left alone, it's easy to slip out for another beer when the commercial comes on and to nibble all evening along with the beer. If I was home, I was more likely to read than to visit, anyhow. And I didn't just let business keep me away; I joined the local duplicate club. She joined but she dropped out. She plays a good social game -- but I like to fight for every point. No criticism of her, there's no virtue in playing as if it were life or death. Grace's to take it easy, too... well, she wouldn't be the way she is." "Nonsense!" said Barbara, suddenly flaring up. "Pardon me?" "Hugh Farnham, what a person is can never be somebody eise's fault,  think. I am what I am because Barbie herself did it. And so did Grace. And so did you." She added in a low voice, "I love you. And that's not your fault, nor is anything we did your fault. I won't listen to you beating your breast and sobbing, 'Mea culpa!' You don't take credit for Grace's virtues. Why take blame for her faults?" i# IF He blinked and smiled. "Seven no trump." "That's better." "I love you. Consider yourself kissed." "Kiss back. Grand slam. But watch it," she said out of the comer of her mouth. "Here come the cops." It was Karen, clean, shining, hair brushed, fresh lipstick, and smiling. "What an inspiring sight!" she said. "Would you poor slaves like a crust of bread and a pannikin of water?" "Shortly," her father agreed. "In the meantime don't carry these buckets too heavily loaded." Karen backed away. "I wasn't volunteering!" "That's all right. We aren't formal." "But, Daddy, I'm cleanf" "Has the creek gone dry?" "Daddy! I've got lunch ready. Out front. You're too filthy to come into my lovely clean house." "Yes, baby. Come along, Barbara." He picked up the buckets. M rs. Farnham did not appear for lunch. Karen stated that Mother had decided to eat inside; Hugh let it go at that -- there would be enough hell when Duke got back. Joe said, "Hugh? About that notion of plumbing -- " "Got it figured out?" "Maybe I see a way to have running water." "If we get running water, I guarantee to provide plumbing fixtures." "Really, Daddy? I know what I want. In colored tile. Lavender, I think. And with a dressing --  "Shut up, infant. Yes, Joe?" "Well, you know those Roman aqueducts. This stream runs uphill that way. I mean it's higher up that way, so someplace it's higher than the shelter. As I understand it, Roman aqueducts weren't pipe, they were open." "I see." Faraham considered it. There was a waterfall a hundred yards upstream. Perhaps above it was high enough. "But that would mean a lot of masonry, whether dry-stone, or mud mortar. And each arch requires a frame while it's being built." "Couldn't we just split logs and hollow them out? And support them on other logs?" "We could." Hugh thought about it. "There's an easier way, and one (hat would kill two birds. Barbara, what sort of country is this?" "I beg your pardon?" "You said that this area is at least semi-tropical. Can you tell what season it is? And what the rest of the year is likely to bring? What I'm driving at is this: Are you going to need irrigation?" "Good heavens, Hugh, I can't answer that!" "You can try?" "Well -- " She looked around. "I doubt if it ever freezes here. If we had water, we might have crops all year. This is not a tropical rain forest, or the undergrowth would be much more dense. It looks like a place with a rainy season and a dry season." "Our creek doesn't go dry; it has lots of fish. Where were you thinking of having your garden?" "How about this stretch downstream to the south? Several trees should come out, though, and a lot of bushes." "Trees and bushes are no problem. Mmm -- Joe, let's take a walk, ril carry a rifle, you strap on your forty-five. Girls, don't dig so much that it topples down on you. We would miss you." "Daddy, I was thinking of taking a nap." "Good. Think about it while you're digging." Hugh and Joe worked their way upstream. "What are you figuring on, Hugh?" "A contour-line ditch. We need to lead water to an air vent on the roof. If we can do that, we've got it made. A sanitary toilet. Running water for cooking and washing. And for gardening, coming in high enough to channel it wherever Barbara wants it. But the luxury that will mean most to our womenfolk is a bath and kitchen. We'll clear the tank room and install both, using partitions." "Hugh, I see how you might get water with a ditch. But what about fixtures? You can't just let water splash, any which way, down through die roof." "I don't know yet, but we'll build them. Not a flush toilet, it's too complex. But a constant-flow toil, a sort that used to be common aboard warships. It's a trough with seats. Water runs into one end, out the other. We'll bail it down the manhole, out the tunnel, and away from the house. Have you seen any clay?" ii'here is a clay bank at the A stream below the house. Karen complained about how sticky it was. She went upstream to bathe, a sandy spot." "I'll look at it. If we can bake clay, we can make all sorts of things. A toilet. A sink. Dishes. Tile pipe. Build a kiln out of unbaked clay, use the kiln to bake anything. But clay just makes it easier. Water is the real gold; all civilizations were built on water. Joe, we are about high enough." "Maybe a little higher? It would be embarrassing to dig a ditch a couple of hundred yards long -- " "Longer." " -- or longer, and find that it's too low and no way to get it up to the roof." "Oh, we'll survey it first." Survey it? Hugh, maybe you didn't notice but we don't even have a spirit level. That big smash broke its glasses. And there isn't even a tripod, much less a transit and all those things." "The Egyptians invented surveying with less, Joe. Losing the spirit level doesn't matter. We'll build an unspirit level." "Are you making fun of me, Hugh?" "Not at all. Mechanics were building level and square centuries before you could buy instruments. We'll build a plumb-bob level. That's an upside down T, and a string with a weight to mark the vertical. You can build it about six feet long and six high to give us a long sighting arm -- minimize the errors. Have to take apart one of the bunks for IF boards. It's light, fussy work you can do while your ribs heal. While the girls do the heavy, unfussy excavating." "You draw it, I'll build it." "When we get the building leveled we'll mount it on the roof and sight upstream. Have to cut a tree or two but we won't have any trouble running a base line. Intercepts we run with a smaller level. Duck soup, Joe." "No sweat, huh." "Mostly sweat. But twenty feet a day of shallow ditch and we'll have irrigation water when the dry season hits. The bathroom can wait -- the gals will be cheered just by the fact that there will be one, someday. Joe, it would suit me if our base line cuts the stream about here. See anything?" "What should I see?" "We fell those two trees and they dam the creek. Then chuck in branches, mud, and some brush and still more mud and rocks and the stream backs up in a pond." Hugh added, "Have to devise a gate, and that I do not see, with what we have to work with. Every problem leads straight to another. Damn." "Hugh, you're counting your chickens before the cows come home." "I suppose so. Well, let's go see how much the girls have dug while we loafed." T he girls had dug little; Duke had returned with a miniature four-point buck. Barbara and Karen had it strung up against a tree and were trying to butcher it. Karen teemed to have as much blood on her as there was on the ground. They stopped as the men approached. Barbara wiped her forehead, leaving a red trail. "I hadn't realized they were so complicated inside." "Or so messy!" sighed Karen. "With that size it's easier on the ground." "Now he tells us. Show us, Daddy. We'll watch." "Me? I'm a gentleman sportsman; the guide did the dirty work. But -- Joe, can you lay hands on that little hatchet?" "Sure. It's sharp; I touched it up yesterday." Hugh split the breast bone and pelvic girdle and spread the carcass, then peeled out viscera and lungs and spilled them, while silently congratulating the girls on not having pierced the intestines. "All yours, girls. Barbara, if you can get that hide off, you might be wearing it soon. Have you noticed any oaks?" "There are scrub forms. And sumach, too. You're thinking of tanning?" "Yes." "I know how to extract it." "Then you know more about tanning than I do. I'll bow out. There are books." "I know, I was looking it up. Doc! Don't sniff at that boy." "He won't eat it," Joe assured her, "unless it's good for him. Cats are fussy." While butchering was going on Duke and his mother crawled out and joined them. Mrs. Farnham seemed cheerful but did not greet S# E yone; she simply looked at Duke's #. 'Oh, the poor little thingl Duke #ear how did you have the heart to kiU it?" "It sassed me and I got mad." "It's a pretty piece of venison, Duke," Hugh said. "Good eating." His wife glanced at him. "Perhaps you'll eat it; I couldn't bear to." Karen said, "Have you turned vegetarian. Mother?" "It's not the same thirg. I'm goii in, I don't want that on me. Karen, don't you dare come inside util you've washed; I won't have you tracking blood in after I've rtaved away getting the place spotless." She headed toward the shelter. "Come inside, Duke." "In a moment, Mother." Karen ftve the carcass an unnecessarily vicious cut. "Where did you nail it?" Hugh asked. "Other side of the ridge. I should ksve been back sooner." "Why?" "Missed an easy shot and splintered an arrow on a boulder. Buck faver. It has been years since I used a 'bow season' license." "One lost arrow, one carcass, is good hunting. You saved the arrowhead?" "Of course. Do I look foolish?" Karen answered, "No, but I do. Buddy, I cleaned house. If Mother #ld any cleaning, it was a mess she BMide herself." "I realized that." "And I'll bet when she smells Biese steaks, she won't want Spam!" Hugh moved away, agnaliag Duke to follow. Tm d to see Grace looking cheerful. You must have soothed hn " Duke looked sheepish. "Well -- As you pointed out, it's rough, chopping it off completely." He added, "But I rationed her. I gave her one drink and told her she could have one more before dinner." "That's doing quite well." "I had better go inside. The bottle is there." "Perhaps you had." "Oh, it's all right. I put her on her honor. You don't know how to handle her. Dad." "That's true. I don't" VI From the Journal of Barbara Wells: I am hobbled by a twisted ankle, so I am lying down and adding to this. I've taken notes every night -- but in shorthand. I haven't transcribed very much. The longhand version goes in the fly leaves of the Britannica. There are ten blank pages in each volume, twenty-four volumes, and I'll squeeze a thousand words to a page. # words. Enough to record our doings until we reclaim the art of making paper -- especially as the longhand version will be censored. Because I can't let my hair down to anyone -- and sometimes a gal needs to! This shorthand record is a diary which no one can read but me, as Karen is as poor at Gregg as she claimed. Or perhaps Joe knows Gregg. IF Isn't it requked in business colleges? But Joe is a gentleman and would not read this without invitation. I am fond of Joseph; his goodness is not a sham. I am sure he is keeping his lip buttoned on many unhappy thoughts; his position is as anomalous as mine and more difficult. Grace has quit ordering him around -- save that she orders all of us. Hugh gives orders, but for the welfare of all. Nor does he give many; we are settled in a routine. Tm the farmer, and plan my own work; Duke keeps meat on the table and gives me a hand when he doesn't hunt; Hugh hasn't told either of us what to do for a long time, and Karen has a free hand with the house. Hugh has about two centuries of mechanical work planned out and Joe helps him. But Grace's orders are for her own comfort. We usually carry them out; it's easier. She gets her own way and more than her share, simply by being difficult. She got the lion's share of liquor. Liquor doesn't matter to me; I rarely "need" a drink. But I enjoy a glow in company and had to remind myself that it was not my liquor, it was Farnham liquor. Grace finished her share in three days. Duke's was next to go. And so on. At last all was gone save one quart of bourbon earmarked "medicinal." Grace spotted where Duke had it and dug it up. When Duke came home, she was passed out and the bottle was dead. The next three days were horrors. She screamed. She wept. She threatened suicide. Hugh and Duke teamed up and one of them was always with her. Hugh acquired a black eye, Duke got scratches dowB his handsome face. I understand they put a lot of B-I into her and force-fed her. On the fourth day she stayed in her bunk; the next day she got up and seemed almost normal. But during lunch she asserted, ai something "everybody knows," that the Russians had attacked because Hugh insisted on building a shelttf. D uke says we must be patient I should not criticize Duke; ha is probably going to be my husband, I mean, who else is there? In this vicinity he is quite a catch. (Polygamy? Of course I wouldl Even with Grace as senior wife. But I haven't been asked.) The trouble is, while I like Duke, no spark jumps. So I am putting it off and avoiding circumstances where he might pat me on the fanny. It would be a hell of a note if I married him and there came a night when I was so irritated at his mother and so vexed with him for indulging her that I would tell him coldly that he is not half the man his father is. No, that must not happen. Duke does not deserve it. Joe? My admiration for him is unqualified. Joe is the first Negro I've had a chance to know well -- and I think most well of him. He plays better contract than I do; I suppose he's smarter than I am. The trouble with Joe is the same as with Duke: No spark jumps. But J am fond of him -- as a younger brother. He is never too busy to be accommodating. He is usually bear guard for Karen and me when we bathe and it's a comfort to know that Joe is alert --  -- Duke has killed five bears and Joe killed one while he was actually guarding us. It took three shots and dropped dead almost in Joe's lap. He stood his ground. We adjourned without worrying about modesty, which upset Joe more than bears do. Or wolves, or coyotes, mountain lions, or a cat which Duke says is a mutated leopard and especially dangerous because it attacks by dropping out of a tree. We don't bathe under trees and don't venture out of our clearing without an man. It is as dangerous as crossing Wilshire against the lights. I t took three weeks to excavate under the house. Boulders! This area is a wide, flat saucershaped valley, with boulders most anywhere. Whenever we hit a big one, we dug around it and the men would worry it out with crowbar and block and tackle. Mostly the men could get boulders out. But Karen found one that seemed to go down to China. Hugh looked it over and said, "Fine. Now dig a hole just north of it and deeper." Karen just looked at him. So we dug. And hit another big boulder. "Good," said Hugh. "Dig another hole north of that one." We hit a third oversize boulder. But in three days the last one had been tumbled into a hole next to iU the middle one had been worried into a hole where the last one had been, and the one that started the trouble was buried where the middle one had been. As fast as any spot had been cut deeply enough Hugh propped it up with pieces of log; he was worried lest the shelter shift and crush someone. So when we finished the shelter had a forest of posts under it Hugh then set two very heavy posts under the uphill corners and smarted removing the inner ones, using block and tackle. Sometimes they had to be dug under. Hugh was nervous during this and did ?? the rigging and digging himself. At last the uphill half was supported on these two big chunks. They would not budge. There was so much weight on those timbers that they sneered at our efforts. I said, "What do we do now, Hugh?" "Try the next-to-the-last resort." "What's the last resort?" "Burn them. But it would take roaring fires and we would have to clear grass and bushes and trees for quite a distance. Karen, you know where the ammonia is. And the iodine. I want both." I had wondered why Hugh had stocked so much ammonia. But he had, in used plastic Clorox bottles; the stuff had ridden through the shocks. I hadn't known that iodine was stocked in quantity, too; I don't handle the drugs. Soon he had sort of a chemistry lab. "What are you making, Hugh?" I asked. IF "Ersatz 'dynamite.' And I don't need company," he said. "The stuff is so touchy it explodes at a harsh look." "Sorry," I said, backing away. He looked up and smiled. "It's safe until it dries. I had it in mind in case I ever found myself in an underground. Occupying troops take a sour view of natives having explosives, but there is nothing suspicious about ammonia or iodine. The stuff is safe until you put it together and does not require a primer. But I never expected to use k for construction; it's too treacherous." "Hugh, I just remembered I don't care whether a floor is level or not." "If it makes you nervous, take a walk." Making it was simple; he combined tincture of iodine and ordinary household ammonia; a precipitate settled out. This he filtered through Kleenex, the result was a paste. Joe drilled holes into those stubborn posts; Hugh wrapped this mess in two batches, in paper, and packed a bundle into each hole, tamping with his finger. "Now we wait for it to dry." Everything that he used he flushed down with water, then took a bath with his clothes on, removed them in the water and left them, weighted down with rocks. That was all that day O ur armament includes two lovely ladies' guns, .# magnum rimfires with telescopic sights. Hugh had Duke and Joe sight them in. The sighting-in was done with sandbag rest -- heaped up dirt, that vl Hugh had them expend five bulleli each, so I knew he was serious. "One bullet, one bear" is his motto. When the explosive was dry, everything breakable was removed from the shelter. We women were chased far back. Karen was charged with hanging onto Dr. Livingstone, and I had Duke's bear rifle. Duke and Joe were on their bellies a measured hundred feet from the posts. Hugh stood between them. "Ready for count?" "Ready, Hugh." -- "Ready, Dad." "Deep breath. Let part of it out Hold it, steady on target, take up the slack. Five... four... three... two... one... ftreV A sound like a giant slammed door and the middle of each post disintegrated. The shelter stuck out like a shelf, then tilted ponderously down, touched, and was level. Karen and I cheered; Grace started to clap; Dr. Livingstone jumped down to investigate. Hugh turned bis head and grinned. And the shelter tilted back the other way as the ridge crumbled; k started to slide. It pivoted on the tunnel protuberance, picked up speed and tobogganned down the slope. I thought it was going to end up in the creek. But the slope leveled off; k ground to a stop, with the tunnel choked with dirt and the whole thing farther out of plumb than before! Hugh picked up the shovel he had used to heap up shooting supports, walked down to the shovel, began to dig. He was correct. The shelter wai level in a week, and this time he triggered the end posts with cross pieces; blasting was not needed. Best of all, the armor door cranked back without a murmur and we had air I ran down, tears bursting from my eyes. Joe was there first. Hugh !ooked up and said, "Joe, dig out the tunnel. I want to know if anything is damaged and the girls will Vint to get lunch." "Boss -- " Joe choked out. "Boss! Oh, gosh!" Hugh said, in a tone you use to Thild, "Why are you upset, Joe This has saved us work." I thought he had flipped. Joe said, Huhr "Certainly," Hugh assured him. "See how much lower the roof is? Every foot it dropped saves at least a hundred feet of aqueduct. And leveling will be simple here; the ground is loam and boulders are few. A week, with everybody pitching in. Then we bring water to the house and garden two weeks early." and sunlight inside -- it had been stuffy and candles made it pretty rank. Joe and Hugh started the ditch the same day. In anticipation of the glorious day Karen sketched on the walls of the tank room lifesize pictures of a wash stand, a bath tub, a pot. Truthfully, we are comfortable. Two mattress covers Karen filled with dried grass; sleeping on the floor is no worse than the bunks. We sit in chairs and play our evening rubber at the table. It is amazing what a difference level floors make and how much better it is to have a IF door than to climb down a ladder and crawl out a hole. Wc had to cook over a campfire a while as our grill and Dutch oven were smashed. Karen and I have thrown together a make-do because, as soon as water is led to the house, Hugh intends to start on ceramics, not only for a toilet and a sink but also for a stove vented out through the periscope hole. Luxury! My corn is coming up beautifully. I wonder what I can use to grind corn? The thought of hot corn bread makes me drool. K aren and Barbara were washing themselves, the day's dishes, and the week's laundry. Above them, Joe kept watch. Bushes and then trees had been cut away around the stretch they used for bathing; a predator could not approach without Joe having a clear shot at it. His eyes swung constantly, checking approaches. He wasted no seconds on the Elysian tableau he guarded. Karen said, "Barbie, this sheet won't stand another laundering." "We need rags." "But what will we use for sheets? It's this soap." Karen scooped a handful from a bowl on the bank. It was soft and gray and harsh and looked like oatmeal mush. "The stuff eats holes." "I'm not fretted about sheets but I dread the day when we are down to our last towel." "Which will belong to mother." Karen stated. "Our rationing officer will have some excellent reason." "Nasty, nasty. Karen, Duke has done a wonderful job." "I wasn't bitching. Duke can't help it. It's his friend Eddie." "'Eddie?" "Edipus Rex, dear." Barbara turned away and began rinsing a pair of ragged blue jeans. Karen said, "You dig me?" . "We all have faults." "Sure, everybody but me. Even Daddy has a shortcoming. His neck pains him." Barbara looked up. "Is Hugh having trouble with his neck? Perhaps it would help if we massaged it." Karen giggled. "Your weakness, sister mine, is that you wouldn't know a joke if it bit you. Daddy is stiff-necked and nothing will cure it. He doesn't have weaknesses and and that's his weakness. Don't frown. I love Daddy. I admire him. But I'm glad I'm not like him. I'll take this load up to the thorn bushes. Damn it, why didn't Daddy stock clothes pins? Those thorns are as bad as the soap." "Clothes pins we can do without. Hugh did an incredible job. Everything from an eight-day clock -- " "Which got busted, right off." " -- to tools and seeds and books and I don't know what. Karen! Don't climb out naked!" Karen stopped, one foot on the bank. "Nonsense. Old Stone Face won't look. Humiliating, that's what it is. I think I'll yoo-hoo at him." "You'll do no such thing. Joe is being a gentleman under trying circumstances. Karen, Joe is sweet. I wish you had heard him explain about Doc." "Explain what?" Karen asked. "Well, Doc is beginning to accept me. I was holding Doc yesterday and noticed something and said, Joe, Doc is getting terribly fat. Or was he always?' "That was a time when he blushed. But he answered with sweet seriousness, 'Barbara, Dr. Livingstone isn't as much of a boy cat as he thinks he is. Old Doc is more a girl-type cat. That isn't fat. Uh, you see -- Doc is going to have babies.' He blurted it out." Karen looked puzzled. "Come to think of it, I haven't picked him up lately. Just petted him and tried to keep him out of things. Lately it hasn't been safe to open a drawer; he's into it. Looking for a place to have kittens of course. I should have twigged." "Karen, why do you keep saying he' and 'him'?" "'Why?' Joe told you. Doc thinks he is a boy cat -- and who am I to argue? Mmm -- Calendar girl, how long have we been here?" "Sixty-two days. I've looked it up; it's sixty days with a normal range to seventy." "So it's any time now. I'll bet you two back rubs that we are up all night tonight. Cats never have kittens at a convenient hours." Karen abruptly began on the dishes. P resently she said in a low voice, "Barbie, Doc won't hand this household half the surprise I'm going to." "How, hon?" "I'm pregnant." "Hmi?" Ton beard me. Pregnant I had a tesC the froggie winked at me. HeO, Fm four months gone." Karea direw herself into the arms of the older girl "And Fm scared!'" Barbara hugged her. "Thwe, there, dear. It's going to be all right." "The hell it is," Karen blubbered. "Mother's going to raise hell... and there aren't any hospitals... nor doctors. Oh, why didn't Duke study medicine? Barbie, I'm going to die. I know I am." "Karen, that's silly. More babies have been born without doctors and hospitals than ever were wheeled into a delivery room. You're not scared of dying, you're scared of telling your parents." "Well, that, too." Karen wiped at her eyes and sniffed. I was going to. But the attack hit... and then Mother went to pieces... and Daddy has been loaded down with worries and there's never been the right time." "Karen, you aren't scared to tell your father, just your mother." "Well...Mother mostly. But Daddy, too. Besides being shocked and hurt -- he'll think it was silly of me to get caught." "While he's certain to be surprised, I doubt the other." Barbara hesitated. "Karen, you needn't take this alone. I can share it." "That's what I had hoped. That's why I asked you to come home with me. I told you." "I mean really share it. I'm pregnant, too." What?" "Yes. We can tell them together." IF "Good Lord, Barbara! How did it happen?" Barbara shrugged. "Careless. How did it happen to you?" Karen suddenly grinned. "How? A bee sprinkled pollen on me; how else? 'Who' you mean." "'Who' I don't care about. Your business. Well, dear? Shall we go tell them? I'll do the talking." "Wait a minute. You hadn't planned to tell anybody? Or had you?" "Why no," Barbara answered truthfully, "I was going to wait until it showed." Karen looked at Barbara's waistline. "You don't look it. And I do; I've been careful not to undress around Mother. Since you don't, let's hold that back and use it as a whammy if things get sticky." "If you like. Karen, tell Hugh first. Then let him tell your mother. And quit worrying. We'll have our babies and won't have any trouble and we'll raise them together and it'll be fun. We'll be happy." Karen's eyes lit up. "And you'll have a girl and Fll have a boy and we'll marry them and be grandmothers together!" "That sounds more like Karen." Barbara kissed her. "Run tell Hugh." K aren found Hugh bricking up the kiln; she told him that she would like a private talk. "All right," he agreed. "Let me tell Joe to get this fired up. I should inspect the ditch. Come along and talk?" He gave her a shovel, carried a rifle. "Now what's on your mind." "Let's get farther away." They walked a meandering distance. Hugh stopped, exchanged rifle for shovel, and built up a stretch of wall. "Daddy? Perhaps you've noticed a shortage of men?" "No. Three men and three women. The usual division." "Perhaps I should say 'eligible bachelors.' " "Then say it." "All right, I've said it. I need advice." He placed another shovelful, tamped it. "Say what you want, baby. Perhaps I can help." "Hardly. I'm pregnant, Daddy." He dropped the shovel, took her in both arms. "Oh, wonderful!" Presently she said, "Daddy... I can't shoot a bear with you hugging me. He put her down, grabbed the rifle. Wherer "Nowhere. But you're always warning us." "Oh. All right, I'll take over guard duty. Who's the father. Karen? Duke? Oh Joe?" "Neither. Earlier, at school." "Oh. Still better!" "How? Damn it. Daddy, this isn't going the way it's supposed to. A girl comes home ruined, her father is supposed to raise hell. All you say is, 'Just dandy!' You've got me confused." "Sorry. Under other circumstances, I might feel that you had been careless. But don't you see dear? You have almost doubled the chances of this colony surviving."He smiled. "I don't feel like working. Let's go spread the good news." vm H ugh leaned on his shovel. "That just about does it, Joe." "Let me tidy up around the gate." They were at the upper end of their ditch where the stream had been dammed against the dry season. It Ihad been on them for weeks; the forest was sear, the heat oppressive. They were extremely caroful about fire. But no longer so careful about bears. It was still standard practice to be armed, but Duke had killed so many carnivores, ursine and feline, they seldom saw one. was only a trickle but there was water for irrigation and for household needs. Without the ditch they would have lost their garden. It was necessary every day or so to adjust the flow. Hugh had not built a water gate; paucity of tools, scarcity of metal, and a total lack of lumber had baffled him. Instead he had devised an expedient, 'fhe point where water was taken from the pond had been faced with brick and a spillway set of halfround tile. To increase the flow this was taken out, the spill cut deeper, bricks adjusted, and tiles replaced. It was clumsy, it worked. The bottom of the ditch was tiled all the way to house and garden; a minimum of water was lost. Their kiln had worked day and night; most of their capital gain had come out of the clay bank below the house and it was becoming difficult to dig good clay. This did not worry Hugh; they had almost everything they needed. Their bathroom was no longer a joke. Water flowed in a two-stall trough toilet, partitioned with deer hide; tile drain pipe "leaded" with clay ran down the manhole, out the tunnel, and to a cesspool. Forming drain pipe Hugh found very difficult. After many failures he had whittled a male form in three parts -- in parts because it was necessary to shape the clay over it, let it dry enough to take out the form before it cracked from shrinking over the form. With practice he cut his failures to about # in forming, # in firing. The damaged water tank he had cut painfully, mallet and chisel, lengthwise into tubs, a bath tub indoors and a wash tub outdoors. The seams he had caulked with shaved hide. The tubs did not leak -- much. A brick fireplace-oven filled one corner of the bath-kitchen. It was not in use; days were long and hot; they cooked outdoors and ate under an awning of empty bears -- but it was ready against next rainy season. Their house now had two stories. Hugh had concluded that an addition strong enough to stop bears and tight enough to discourage snakes would have to be of stone, and solidly roofed. That he could do -- but how about windows and doors? Glass he would make some day if he solved the problems of soda and lime. But not soon. A stout door and tight shutters he could manage but it would be stuffy. So they had built a shed on the roof, a grass shack. Wth the laddw IF Bp, a bear faced a twelve-foot wall. Unsure that a wall would stop all their neighbors, Hugh had arranged trip lines around the edge so that disturbing them would cause an oxygen bottle to fall over. Their alarm was tripped the first week, scaring off the intruder. It had also, Hugh admitted, scared the bejasus out of him. Anything that could not be hurt by weather had been moved out and the main room was rearranged into a women's dormitory and nursery. H ugh stared downstream while Joe finished fussing. He could make out the roof of his penthouse. Good enough, he mused. Everything was in fair shape and next year would be better. So much better that they might take time to explore -- even Duke had not been as much as twenty miles away. Nothing but feet for travel and too busy scratching to live -- Next year would be soon enough. mans reach should exceed his grasp, or whafs a heaven for? They had started with neither pot nor window. This year a pot. Next year a window? No hurry. Things were going well. Even Grace seemed contented, after one horrible day-long rant. He felt cain the would settle down and be a happy grandmother. Grace liked babies -- how well he remembered. Not long now. Karen was fuzzily vague but her guesses seemed to show that D-day was about two weeks off, and her condition matched her guess. The sooner, the better! Hugh had studied everything in his library on pregnancy and childbirth; he made every preparation he could. His patients seemed to be in perfect health, both had satisfactory pelvic measurements, both seemed unafraid, and they helped each other not to gain too much weight, with friendly nagging. With Barbara to hold Karen's hand, with Karen to hold Barbara's hand, with Grace's motherly experience to bolster them, Hugh could see no trouble ahead. It would be wonderful to have babies in the house. With a warm wave of euphoria Hugh Famham realized that he had never been so happy in his life. #'lhat's it, Hugh. Let's catch A those tiles on the way back." "Okay. Take the rifle. I'll carry the tools." "I think," Joe said, "we ought to -- " His words chopped off at a gunshot; they froze. It was followed by two more. They ran. Barbara was in the door. She held up a gun and waved, went inside. She came out before they reached the house, stepping carefully down off the stoop and moving slowly; she was very gravid. Her belly bulged huge in shorts made from worn-out jeans that had belonged to Duke; she wore a man's shirt altered to support her breasts. She was barefooted and no longer carried the gun. Joe outdistanced Hugh, met her near the house. "Karen?" he demanded. "Yes. She's started. Grace is with her. But she wants you." "Let me catch my breath." Hugh wiped his face, tried to control his trembling. He took a deep breath, held it, let it out slowly. He went inside, Barbara following. The bunks near the door had been taken down. A bed stuck out into the doorway but space cleared by removing shelves left passage. One bunk was not a cot in the living corner. The bed was padded with a grass mattress and a bear rug; a calico cat, one of Doc's litter, was on it. Hugh squeezed past, felt another cat brush his ankles. He went into the other bay. The bunks there had been rebuilt into a bed across the end; Karen was in bed, Grace was seated, fanning her, and Joe stood by with an air of grave concern. Hugh smiled at his daughter. "Hi, Fatty!" He stooped and kissed her. "How are you? Hurting?" "Not now. But I'm glad you're here." "We hurried." A cat jumped up, landing on Karen. "Unh! Damn you, Maggie!" "Joe," said Hugh, "round up the cats and put them in Coventry." The tunnel mouth had been bricked up, but with air holes, and a cat door which could be filled with a large brick. The cats had a low opinion of this but it had been built after Happy New Year had become missing and presumed dead. Karen said, "Daddy, I want Maggie with me!" "Joe, make that all but Maggie. When we get busy, grab Maggie an# shut up her, too." "Daddy, you should have been a doctor." "I am a doctor. The best doctor in the world." As he left the house he encountered Duke, soaked from a long run. "I heard three shots. Sis?" "Yes. No hurry, labor has just started. I'm about to take a bath. Want to join me?" "I want to say hello to Sis first. "Hurry up; they're about to bathe her. And grab Joe; he's incarcerating cats. They'll want us out of the way." "Shouldn't we be boiling water?" "Do so, if it will calm you. Duke, my O. B. kit, such as it is, has been ready for a month. There are six jars of boiled water, for this and that. Go kiss your sister and don't let her see that you're worried." "You're a cold fish. Dad." "Son, I'm scared silly. I can list thirteen major complications -- and I'm not prepared to cope with any of them. Mostly I pat her hand and tell her that everything is dandy -- and that's what she needs. I examine her, solemn as a judge, and don't know what to look for. It's just to reassure her... and I'll thank you to help out. Duke said soberly, "I will, sir. I'll kid her along." "Don't overdo it. Just let her see that you share her confidence in old Doc Farnham." "I will." "If Joe gets the jitters, get him out. He's the worst. Grace is doing IF fine. Hurry up or they won't let you in." A ll that hot and weary day the woman brought to bed fought to void herself of her burden, whitefaced and shrieking, belly hardening with each attempt, muscles in arms and neck standing out as she strained -- then fell back limp as the contraction died away, tired and trembling, not speaking, uninterested in anything but the ordeal. It got steadily worse. Contraction became three minutes apart; each one longer and seemed to hurt more. At nine that night there was bleeding. Grace became frantic; she had heard many stories of the dangers of hemorrhage. Hugh assured her that it was normal and showed that the baby would arrive soon. He believed it, as it was not massive and did not continue -- and it did not seem possible that birth could be far away. Grace looked angry and got up; Barbara slipped into the chair she vacated. Hugh hoped that Grace would rest -- the women had been taking turns. But Grace returned a few minutes later. "Hubert," she said in a high, brittle voice. "Herbert, Fm going to call a doctor. "Do that," he agreed, his eyes on Karen. "You listen to me, Hubert Farnham. You should have called a dochear me? Fm going to call a doctor -- and you are not going to stop me." "Yes, Grace. The telephone is m there." He pointed into the other wing. Grace looked puzzled, then turned suddenly and went away. 'Duker His son hurried in. "Yes, Dad?" Hugh said forcefully, "Duke, your mother has decided to telephone for a doctor. You go help her. Do you understand? Duke's eyes widened. "Where are the needles?" "In the smaller bundle on the table. Don't touch the large bundle; it's sterile." "Got it. What dosage?" "Two c.c. Don't let her see the needle, or she'll jerk" Hugh's head jerked; he realized that he was groggy. "Make that three c.c.; I want her to go out like a light and sleep until morning. She can tolerate it." "Right away." Duke left. Karen had been lying quiet between contractions, apparently in semi-coma. Now she whispered, "Poor Daddy. Your women give you a lot of grief." "Rest, dear." "I -- Oh, God, here it comes again!" A round down -- it seemed to Hugh that the torture had been going on for weeks but his watch showed that Karen had been in labor eighteen hours -- Barbara said urgently, "Hugh, she can't take any more." "I know," he admitted, looking at his daughter. She was at the peak of a pain, face gray and contorted, mouth squared in agony, high sob#f Well? We have to do something." "I suppose she should have had a Caesarean But I'm no surgeon." "I wonder." "I don't. I'm not." 'You know more about it than the first man who ever did one! You know how to keep it sterile. We have sulfa drugs and you can load her up with demerol." She did not try to keep Karen from hearing; their patient was beyond caring. "No." "Hugh, you must. She's dying." "I know." He sighed. "But it's too late for a Caesarean, even if I knew how. To save Karen with one, I mean. We might save her baby." He blinked and swayed. "Only it would not. Whos to wet-nurse? You can't, not yet. And cows we don't have." He took a deep breath, tried to get a grip on himself. "Only one thing left. Try to get it out Eskimo style." "What's that?" "Get her up and let gravity help. Maybe it'll work. Call the boys, we'll need them. I've got to scrub again; I might have to do an episiotomy. Oh, God." Five minutes and two contractions later they were ready to try it. When Karen lay back exhausted after the second one, Hugh tried to explain what they were going to do. It was hard to get her attention. At last she nodded slightly and whispered, "I don't care." Hugh went to the table where his equipment was now opened out, and got his one scalpel, took the camp lamp in his other hand. 'AII right, boys. As soon as she starts, pick her up." They had only seconds to wait. Hugh saw the contraction start, nodded to Duke. "Nowl" "With me, Joe." They started to lift her, each with an arm under her back, a hand under a thigh. Karen screamed and fought them off. "No, no! Don't touch me --  cant stand it! Daddy, make them stop! DaddyV They stopped. Duke said, "Dad?" "Lift her up! Now!" They got her high in a squatting position, thighs pulled open. Barbara got behind Karen, arms around her, and pressed down on the girl's tortured belly. Karen screamed and struggled; they held her fast. Hugh barely had time to get to the floor before he had both hands full of wet, slippery, bloody baby. He knew there was something else he should do now but all he could think of was to get it by both feet in his left hand, lift it and slap its tiny bottom. It let out a choked wail. "Get her on the bed, boys -- but easy! It's still fastened by the cord." They made it, Hugh on his knees and burdened with a feebly wiggling load. Once they had Karen down, Hugh started to put her baby in her arms -- but saw that Karen was not up to it. She seemed to be awake. Her eyes were open. But she was in total collapse. H ugh was close to collapse. He looked dazedly around, handed the baby to Barbara. "Stay close." IF "Dad?" said Duke. "Aren't you supposed to cut the cord?" "Not yet." Where was that knife? He found it, rubbed it quickly with iodine -- hoped that it was sterile. Placed it by two boiled lengths of cotton string -- turned and felt the cord to see if it was pulsing. "He's beautiful," Joe said softly. "She," Hugh corrected. "The baby is a girl. Now, Barbara, if you -- " He broke off. Suddenly everything happened too fast. The baby started to choke; Hugh grabbed it, turned it upside down, dug into its mouth, scooped out a plug of mucus, handed the baby back, started again to check the cord -- saw that Karen was in trouble. With a nightmare feeling that he needed to be twins he got one of the strings, tied a square knot around the cord near the baby's belly, trying to control his trembling so as not to tie it too hard -- started to tie the second, saw that it was not needed; Karen suddenly delivered the pla centa and was hemorrhaging. She moaned. With one slash Hugh cut the cord snapped at Barbara, "Get a bell band on it!" -- turned to take care of the mother. She was flowing like a river; her face was gray and she seemed lui' conscious. Too late to attempt tc take stitches. This flood was from inside. He tried to stop it by packing her with their last roll of gauze while shouting to Joe and to Duke to ge a belly band compress on Karen himself to put pressure on her uter us. Some agonized time later tfu belly compress was in place. Hugh raised his eyes and looked at Karen's face -- then in sudden panic tric( to find her pulse. Karen had survived the birth her daughter by less than sever minutes. The child lingered for a few hours, then joined her. f X T hey went on. Duke hunted, Duke and Joe farmed, Hugh worked harder than ever. Grace worked, too, and her cooking improved -- and her eating; she got fatter. She never mentioned her conviction that her husband had been responsible for the death of their daughter. She did not speak to him at all. When a problem had to be discussed she spoke to Duke. She quit attending even their church services. In the last month of Barbara's pregnancy Duke sought out nis father, privately. "Dad, you told me that any time I wanted to leave -- or any of us -- we could." Hugh was startled. "Yes." "A pro-rata share, you said. Ammo, tools, and so forth." "Better than that; we're a going concern. Duke, you are leaving?" "Yes -- but not just myself. Mother wants to. She's the one who's dead set on it. I've got reasons, but Mother's wishes are the deciding factor." "Mmm. Let's talk about your reasons. Are you dissatisfied with the way I'm running things? I will gladly step aside. I feel sure that I can get Joe and Barbara to go along, so that you will have unanimous support." He sighed. "I am anxious to turn over the burden." Duke shook his head. "That's not it, Dad. I don't want to be boss and you've done a good job. Oh, I won't say I liked the high-handed way you started in. But results count and you got results. I'd rather not discuss my reasons except to say that they don't have to do with you -- and wouldn't be enough to make me leave if Mother weren't hipped on it. She wants to leave. She's going to leave. I can't let her leave alone." Hugh pondered it. "Duke, if that's how your mother feels, I won't try to persuade her; I've long since lost my influence over her. But I have two ideas. You may find one of them practical." "I doubt it." "Hear me. You know we have copper tubing; we used some in the kitchen. We have everything for a still; I stocked the items to build one if a war came along -- not just for us but because liquor is money in any primitive society. "I haven't built it for reasons we both know. But I could and I know how to make liquor." He smiled slightly. "Not book knowledge. While I was in the South Pacific, I bossed a still, with the shut-eye connivance of my C. O. I learned how to turn corn or potatoes or most anything into vodka, or fruit into brandy. Duke your mother might be happy if she had liquor. "She would drink herself to death!" "Duke, Duke! If she is happy doing it, who are we to stop her? IF What does she have to live for? She loved television, she enjoyed parties, she could spend a happy day at the hairdresser's, followed by a movie, then drinks with one of her friends. That was her life, Duke. Now where is it? Gone, gone! There is just this we can give her to make up for what she has lost. Who are you to decide that your mother must not drink herself to death?" "Dad, that's not the situation!" "So?" "You know I don't -- didn't -- approve of Mother's excessive drinking. But I might go along with letting her drink all she wants now. If you build that still, we might be customers. But we would still leave. Because that won't solve Mother's problem." "Well, Duke, that leaves only my other idea. I'll get out instead. Only -- " Hugh frowned. "Duke, tell her that I will leave as soon as Barbara has her baby. I can't walk out on my patient. You can give Grace my assur -- " "Dad, that won't solve a thing!" "I don't understand." # #h, Christ, I might as well vy spill it. It's Barbara, She's -- Well, hell. Mother is nuts on the subject. Can't stand her. Ever since Karen died." "Good Lord!" "Yeah. I tried to reason with her. I told her that Barbara couldn't leave. So she decided to leave. I can't stall her any longer. She's leaving. I'm going with her, to take care of her." His father rubbed his temples, "I guess there is no situation so bad but what it can get worse. Duke, even with you, she hasn't anywhere to go." "Not quite. Dad." "Eh?" "I can swing it, with your help. Do you remember that cave up Collins Canyon, the one they tried to make a tourist attraction? It's stifl there. Or its twin, I mean. I was hunting up that way that first week. The canyon looked so familiar that I climbed up and looked for the cave. Found it. And Dad, it's habitable and defensible." "The door? The mouth?" "No problem. If you can spare that steel plate that blocked off the tunnel." "Certainly." "The cave has a vent, higher up. No smoke problem. It has a spring that hasn't failed all this dry weather. Dad, it's as comfortable as the shelter; all it needs is outfitting." "I capitulate. You can take almost anything now. Beds, of course. Utensils. Your pick of the canned goods. Matches, ammunition, guns. Make a list. I'll help you move." Duke colored under his tan. "Dad, a few things are up there already." "So? Did you think I would be pinchpenny?" "Uh... I don't mean the past few days. I moved some things up the first days we were here. You see... well, you and I had that row -- and then you made me rationing officer. That gave me the idea, and for a week or more I always left here loaded, leaving when no one was watching." n Stealing," said Hugh tightly. "I didn't figure it so. I never took as much as one sixth of anything... and just stuff I would have to have in a pinch. Matches. Ammo. That rifle you couldn't find. One blanket. A knife. A little food. Some candles. You see... well, look at it from my side. There was aways the chance that I woud get you sore and either have to fight -- one of us killed is the way you put it -- or run and not be able to stop for anything. I decided not to fight. So I made preparations. But I didn't steal it; you said I could have it. Say the word and I'll fetch it all back." Hugh Farnham peeled a callus, then looked up. "One man's stealing is another man's survival, I suppose. Just one thing -- Duke, in that food you took: Were there any cans of milk?" "Not one. Dad, don't you think, if there had been, I would have beaten all records getting up there and back when Karen died?" "Yes. I'm sorry I asked." "I was sorry I hadn't snitched a few cans; then they wouldn't have been used up." "The baby didn't last out the milk we had, Duke. All right, it calls for quick surgery -- but don't forget that you can come back, any time. Duke, women sometimes get unreasonable at about your mother's age... then get over it and are nice old ladies. Maybe we'll have the family together again. I hope we'll see you occasionally. You're welcome to all the vegetables you can eat, of course." "I was going to mention that. I can't farm up there. Suppose I st# hunt for all of us...and when I bring in a load of meat I take away a load of green stuff." His father smiled. "We have reinstituted commerce. And we can supply you with pottery and there's n# need to do your own tanning. Duke, I suggest you sort out what you want, and tomorrow you and I and Joe will start packing it to your cave. Be lavish. Just one thing -- " "What?" "The books are mine! Anything you want to look up, you'll have to come here. This is not a circulating library." "Fair enough." "I mean it. You can have my razor, you can have my best knife. But snitch one book and I'll skin you alive and bind that book in human skin. There are limits. All right, I'll tell Joe, and get Barbara out of the house and we'll stay away until dark. Good luck, and tell Grace no hard feelings. There are, but tell her that. But I'm not too groused. It takes two to create a heaven... but hell can be accomplished by one. I can't say that I've been happy lately and Grace may be smarter than we think." A bout nine the next morning, they all were outside where chattels for the new household were piled. Hugh looked over his ex-wife's selections with wry amusement. Grace had taken literally the invitation to "take almost anything;" she had gutted the place -- the best blankets, almost all utensils including the tea IF kettle and the one skillet, three of four foam-rubber mattresses, nearly all the remaining canned goods, all the sugar, the lion's share of other irreplaceables, all the plastic dishes. Hugh made only one objection: salt. When he noted that Grace had grabbed all the salt he insisted on a division. Duke agreed and asked if there was anything else Hugh objected to? Hugh shook his head. Barbara would not mind making-do. 'Better is a dinner of herbs where love is -- " Duke had shown restraint, taking one shovel, one axe, a hammer, less than half the nails, and no tool not stocked in duplicate. Instead Duke remarked that he might want to borrow tools someday. Hugh agreed and offered his services on any twoman job. Duke thanked him. Both men found the situation embarrassing, both were unusually polite. A delay in starting was caused by the steel plate for the cave door. Its weight was not too great for a man as husky as Duke, but it was awkward. A pack had to be devised, rugged enough for the trek, comfortable in padding and straps, and so rigged that Duke could fire a rifle. This resulted in sacrificing the one intact bear hide, the covering of the bed Karen had died in. Hugh minded only the loss of time. It would take six trips by three men to move the plunder Grace had picked; Duke thought that two trips a day would be maximum. If they did not start soon, only one trip could be made that day. At last they got it on Duke's back with a fur pad protecting his spine. "Feels right," Duke decided. "Letli get packs on you two and get going." "In a jiffy," Hugh agreed and bent over to pick up his load. "My God!" "Trouble, Duke?" "Look!" A shape had appeared over the eastern rise. It slanted through the air on a course that would have missed Ijiem, but, as it neared the point of closest approach, it stopped dead, turned and headed for them. K passed majestically overhead. Hugh was unable to guess its size at first; there was nothing to which to relate it -- a dark shape propwtioned like a domino tile. But, as it passed about five hundred feet up, k seemed to him that it was around a hundred feet wide and three timet that in length. He could make out no features. It moved swiftly but made no noise. It swept past, turned, circled -- stopped, turned again and came toward them at lower altitude. H ugh found that he had an arm around Barbara. When the object had appeared, she had been some distance away, putting clothet to soak in the outside tub. Now sho was circled by his left arm and he could feel her trembling. "Hugh, what is it?" "People." The thing hovered above thefr flag. Now they could see people; heads showed above Its sides. A comer detached itself, splitting fi off sharply. It dove, stopped by the peak of the flag pole. Hugh saw that it was a car about nine feet long and three wide, with one passenger. No details could he see, no clue to motive power; the car enclosed the man's lower body; his trunk projected above. The man removed the flag, rejoined the main craft. His vehicle blended back in. The rectangle disintegrated. It broke into units like that which had filched their flag. Most cars remained in the air; some dozen landed, three in a triangle around the colonists. Duke yelled, "Watch it!" and dived for his gun. He never made it. He leaned forward at an extreme angle, pawed the air with a look of amazement, and was slowly pulled back to vertical. Barbara gasped in Hugh's ear. "Hugh, what is it?" "I don't know." He did not need to ask what she meant; he had felt, the instant his son was stopped, that he seemed to be waist deep in quicksand. "Don't fight it." "I wasn't going to." Grace shrilled, "Hubert! Hubert, do some -- " Her cries cut off. She seemed to faint but did not fall. Four cars were about eight feet in the air, lined up abreast, and were cruising over Barbara's farm. V.ere ey passed, everything underneath, corn stalks, tomato plants, beans, squash, lettuce, potato hills, everything including branching ditches was pressed fat into a macadam. The raw end ofhe main ditch spilled water over this pavement. One car whipped around, ran a new ditch around the raped area in a wide sweep which allowed the water to cirde the destroyed garden and reach the stream at a lower point. O ut of the pavilion strode a man. He seemed seven feet tall but some of this was a helmet, plumed and burnished. He wore a flowing skirt of red embroidered in gold and was bare to the waist save that an end of the skirt thrown across one shoulder covered part of his broad chest. He had an air of good-natured arrogance and his eyes were bright and merry. His forehead was high, his skull massive; he looked intelligent and alert. Hugh could not place his race. His skin was dark brown and shiny. But his mouth was only slightly Negroid; IF Ms nose, though broad, was arched, and his black hair was wavy. He carried a small crop. He strode up to them, stopped abruptly when he reached Joseph. He gave a curt order to their nearest captor. Joe stretched and bent his legs. "Thanks." The man spoke to Joe. Joe answered, "Sorry, I don't understand." The man spoke again. Joe shrugged helplessly. The man grinned and patted him on the shoulder, turned away, picked up Duke's rifle. He handled it clumsily, making Hugh flinch. Nevertheless he seemed to understand guns. He worked the bolt, ejecting one cartridge, then put it to his shoulder, aimed and fired. The blast was deafening, he had fired past Hugh's ear. He grinned bioadly, tossed the rifle to a suboritinate, walked up to Hugh and Barbara, reached out to touch Barbara's diild-swollen belly. Hugh knocked his hand away. With a gesture almost negligent, certainly without anger, the big man brushed Hugh's hand aside with the crop he carried. It was not a blow, it would not have swatted a fly. Hugh gasped in agony. His hand burned like fire and his arm was numb to the armpit. "Oh, God!" Barbara said urgently, "Don't, Hugh. He isn't hurting me." Nor was he. With a manner of impersonal interest such as a veterinarian might take in feeling a pregnant mare or bitch, the big man felt out the shape of the child she carried -- while Hugh writhed in that special humiliation of a man unable to protect his woman. Coming next month -- by Robert A. Heinlein A New Retief Story by Keith Laumer -- and many more All in the August issue of the new monthly IF! n IF  Short St His purposes were pure. His method was correct. His end was appaUing! G regory Swenn' basic problem was the manner of his rearing. Brought up by doting parents who -- as a business -- spent most of their time upon soapboxes on street corners exhorting passersby to "Repent before.it is too late!", young Gregory's view of life was apt to become a bit "slanted" as he grew up, a situation which his proud parents might have foretold had they realized the significance of his first spoken word, at the age of eight months. Some children began their communicative careers with "mama", others with "dada", and a few scions whose ancestry could be traced directly to certain prominent brokerage firms began their primal conversation by murmurring "money"; but young Gregory Swenn's first word was "Shame!" By the age of three, his vocabulary had improved to the extent of including innumerable cautionary expressions of the "Beware!", "Look out!" and "Consider!" genre, so that an hour spent in his urgently lisping company could reduce a steel-nerved stevedore to a whimpering jelly. By age five, Gregory had progressed far enough in intelligence to karn what this vocabulary referred to. It was then that he made his historic decision to devote his life to the same goals toward which his parents aimed. Gregory, however, decided upon a more direct route. After a reasonably normal apprenticeship in elementary and high schools (during the course of which Gregory spent most of his free time patrolling the streets with his pockets full of blackboard erasers and soap, to undo the damages wrought by other young men his age who wandered about practicing their calligraphy with colored chalk upon fences, sidewalks, and the walls of public washrooms), it came time to enter a university, a luxury Gregory could well afford, since -- when his parents and himself were engaged in passing the hat after a lecture -- he employed a ten-gallon Stetson with a false bottom. His doting parents asked him whether he would major in Basic Apologetics, or simply strive for a D. D. Gregory shocked these humble purveyors of righteousness by announcing, "I could learn, in either program, nothing which I already do not know. Therefore I intend to pursue a strict, concentrated major -- without electives or minors, hence not terminating in a degree, but that is a small matter -- in the relatively untapped field of Encephalic Phonology!" His parents, though quite poor, his statement to be a sophisticated utilization of foul language, they disowned him on the spot and hacked his soapbox into kindling. Undaunted, Gregory entered tlM university and began to learn for all he was worth. At the end of four years Gregory, now a pinch-faced, purse-lipped man of twenty-two years, had learnt all he needed to know on the subject. Quietly removing himself from the campus one night, he moved into a city apartment and began th construction of his famous Encephalophonolabialternater, a sort ol rfiortwave radio transmitter attuned to the frequencies of the humaa brain in the neuronic area controlling the use of lips, larynx, tongue, teeth and diaphragm. I n short, Gregory now could -- by the simple adjustment of a dial -- control the speech habits ol aU the people in the entire world. However, his scheme had ono flaw. Whereas he had hoped to entirely eliminate all profanity, vu garity, swearing, cursing and associated coarsenesses from humaa speech, leaving in their place a restful silence, he found that nature -- as usual abhorring a vacuum -- compromised to the extent of a substitute sound. This was a breathy vocalization quite close to a burbly whistle (such as those used by traffic policemen and camp counselors), which emerged from the lips of tha speaker in syllables that seemed ta say "weetl". "Well," sighed Gregory, "it is baiter than nothing, I guess. At least the words of the world will ba cleansed of decadent degradations." So saying, he plugged his maff chine into the wall outlet, set the dial and turned it on. Then, locking up the apartment, he set forth to stroll the streets of the city and see his tongue-tied utopia begin to bloom. Rounding a corner, Gregory chanced to collide with a gorillalike male who was three days unshaven, and wearing workman's clothing and a sour expression. "I beg your pardon," said Gregory, who was always extra-polite to people greater in size than himself. "Wyncha watch where the weetl you're goin'I" the man demanded, before shuffling off down the street. To his shift in speech mannerism he apparently paid no heed. Gregory stared after the man, bemused. 'Tt may be," he said to himself, "that people have become so inured to the use of profanity that the words have quite lost meaning for them." This bothered him terribly. "Little good it does," he pondered, "to eliminate the actual words, when the 'weetle' sound serves them as well!" He turned about and began hurrying back toward his apartment. There he discovered that he could not admit himself onto the premises, having unaccountably lost his wallet, his keys and one slightly used hankerchief. Then he recalled his encounter with the gorilla-like man, and the hasty manner in which the man had departed after the collision, not pausing to remonstrate nor resort to fisticuffs. "But," Gregory thought miserably, "I thought pickpockets were all small weasel-faced men who performed their art during parade and subway crushes! Disillusioned at this betrayal from a fellow man, Gregory began to thrust his inadequate shoulder against the door of his apartment, but it would not move. However, his efforts made sufficient commotion to incur the attentions of the building superintendent, who came upstairs on the run. "Weetl-o, Mr. Swenn," said the man, seeing him there in the corridor. "Can I be of some weetl p?" "Dear me!" gasped Gregory. "Even the innocent words are suffering. I thought my machine had more sense!" He clutched the superintendent by the suspenders. "You must unlock my door with your passkey," he pled, "lest it turn out that my efforts have done naught but supply the world with an allpurpose cuss-word!" "Why is your brow so weetlp with sweat?" inquired the man, prying Gregory's fingers from their elastic supports. "I'd expect such hysteria in a woman, but not in a person of the opposite weetl." "Open the door!" Gregory begged, weeping. "The machine is gaining on us! I had set the dial merely to block out the word 'weetl', but now it has advanced to the blockade of 'weetl' and 'weed', besides!" The superintendent stared blankly. "Maybe you'd better weetl down, Mr. Swenn," he suggested. "I mean it most weetlcerely," he added. G regory staggered back horrified at the progress his machine was making. Soon, he realized, it IF could be beyond the efforts of a person to order a weetinamon bun with his morning coffee! He staggered back even further as he realized that his very mind had been invaded by the onslaught of the machine. He could not so much as think of words like "weetr any more, let alone terms like "weetl" or 'Veetl"! Maddened he raced downstairs and into the street. He sprang into his car, stepped on the weed (the machine was against mention of intimate alimentary disorders), and let out the weed (against physical violations, also), then drove out toward the weed, whose stored-up reservoir provided the hydroelectric power that was even now running his machine. Not waiting for the green, he drove right through a weed weed at the intersection, and soon had a trail of angry motorcycle policemen following close weed him. But he arrived at the weed before they did, and raced for the entrance. But a spillage of water had weetlpened the weed, and Gregory, weetlpless to stop, fell weetlter-skelter off the front of the weetl into the turbines and was crushed to a pulp. By the time the untended machine had burnt itself out, the word 'Veetr' remained in the language as a verbal monument to its inventor, Gregory Swenn, who had by his efforts supplied the speaking world with a term used to reto to things so debased and unspeakable they had hitherto been even beyond the frank discussion of determined deI A lively, illusfroted explanation of a useful and fascinating branch of mathematics Experiments in Topology "Until Barr turned his thoughts toward topology it had never occured to anyone thot closed, one-sided surfaces such as Klein bottles and projective planes could be made sfmply by cutting and pasting sheets of paper... Yet it would be unfair to say that his book is no more than a collection of topological recreations. The play is mixed with important maHiematics, and there are occasional asides that plunge into deep waters." New York #, N. Y. mathemattctan named Klein Thought the Moebius band was divine. Said he: Tf you glue The edges of two, Youll get aweird ' bottle like miner The Mathenaufs IF  N#Mi#t# I I t happened on my fifth trip into the spaces, and the first ever made under the private enterprise acts. It took a long time to get the P.E.A. through Congress for mathenautics, but the precedents went all the .way back to the Telstar satellite a hundred years ago, and most of the concepts are in books anyone can buy, though not so readily understand. Besides, it didn't matter if BC-flight was made public or not. They sailed the star lanes In a mathematical abstractionand reached an unbelievable goal! All mathenauts are crazy. Everybody knows that. Take our crew. Johnny Pearl took a pin along whenever he went babysitting for the grad students at Berkeley, and three months later the mothers invariably found out they were pregnant again. And Pearl was our physcist. Then there was Goldwasser. Ed Goldwasser always sits in those pan-on-a-post cigarette holders when we're in New York, and if you ask him, he grumbles; "Well, its an ashiniy, aint k?" A punster aM a pataphysicist. I would never halve chosen him to go, except tfaH he and I got the idea together, so I couldn't say no. Ted Anderson was our metamathematician. He's about half a nanosecond behind Ephriam Cohen (the co-inventor of BC-flight) and has about six nervous breakdowns a month trying to pass him. But he's got the best practical knowledge of the BC-drive outside Princeton, if practical knowledge means anything with respect to a pure mathematical abstraction. And me -- topologist. A topologist is a man who can't tell a doughnut from a cup of coffee. (I'll explain that some other time.) Seriously, I specialize in some of the more abstruse properties of geometric structures. "Did Galois discover that theorem before or after he died?" is a sample of my conversation. Sure, mathenauts are mathenuts. But as we found out, not quite mathenutty enough. The ship, the Abrecht Dold, was a twelve googol scout that Ed Goldwasser and I'd picked up cheap from the N.Y.U. Courant Mathematical Sciences Institute. She wasn't the Princeton I.A.S. VonNeumann, with googolplex coils and a chapter of the D.A.R., and she wasn't one of those new toys you've been seeing for a rich man and his molecules, and the psychosomatics were straight from the Brill Institute at Harvard. A sweet ship. For psychic ecology we'd gotten a bunch of kids from the Bronx College of the New York City University, commonsense types -- business majors, engineers, pre-meds. But kids. I was looking over Ephraim Cohen's latest paper. Nymphomaniac Nested Complexes With Rossian Irrevelancies (old Ice Cream Cohen loves sexy titles), when the trouble started. We'd abstracted, and Goldwasser and Pearl had signalled me from the lab that they were ready for the first tests. I made the Dold invariant, and shoved off through one of the passages that linked the isomorphomechanism and the lab. (We kept the ship in free fall for convenience). I was about half way along the tube when the immy failed and the walls began to close in. S omeone (probably me) had scavenged the grablines to cut up for extra connectivity. I spread my legs and braked against the walls of the tube, believing with all my might. On second thought I let the walls sink in and braked with my palms. It would've been no trick to hold the walls for awhile. Without the immy my own imagination would hold them, this far from the B.C.N.Y. kids. But that might've brought more trouble -- I'd probably made some silly mistake, and the kids, who might not notice a simple contraction or shear, would crack up under some weirdomorphism. And if we lost the kids... So anyway I just dug my feet in against the mirage and tried to slow up, on a surface that no one'd bothered to think any friction into. Of course, if you've read some of the popular accounts of math-sailing. youd think Td fust duck back through a hcikt m the fiftieth dimension to the immy. But it doesn't work out that way. A ship in BCflight is a very precarious structure in a philosophical sense. That's why we carry a psychic ecology, and that's why Brill conditioning takes six years, plus with a Ph.D. in pure math, to absorb. As it was, there weren't a hundred mathenauts yet, and we'd been lucky to get Pearl and Anderson, despite their personalities. An)Tway, a mathenaut should never forget his postulates, or he'll find himself floating in #-space, with nary a notion to be named. Then the walls really did vanish -- NO! -- and I found myself at the junction of two passages. The other had a grabline. I caught it and rebounded, then swarmed back along the tube to the control room. About then the walls really did begin to cave in, till after ten seconds I was climbing down into a funnel. I caught my breath, swallowed some Dramamine, and burst into the control room. The heart of the ship was pulsing and throbbing. For a moment I thought I was back in Hawaii with my aqualung, an invader in a shifting, shimmering world of sea fronds and barracuda. But it was no immy, no immy -- a rubber room without the notion of distance that we take for granted (technically, a room with topological properties but no metric ones). To my eyes, it was as if everything had been transmuted to the finest, most pliable rubber, and chose to shift or swell as my gaze met it. Instrument racks and diairs and books sbnuik aad bd looned and twisted, and floor and ceiling vibrated with my breath. Ik was as if I had to keep thinking about everything for it to remain still. It was horrible. Ted Anderson was hanging in front of the immy, the isomorphomechanism, but he was in no shape to do anything. In fact, he was in no shape at all. His body was pulsing and throbbing and shaking, so his hands were too big or too small to manipulate the controls, or his eyes shrank or blossomed. Poor Ted's nerves had gone again. I shoved against the wall and bulleted toward him, a fish in a weaving, shifting undersea landscape, concentrating desperately on my body and the old structure of the room. (This is why physical training is so important). For an instant I was choking and screaming in a hairy blackness, a nightmare insideout total inversion; then I was back in the control room, and had shoved Ted away from the instruments, cursing when nothing happened, then bracing against the wall panels and shoving again. He drifted away. The immy was all right. The twiddles circuits between the B.C.N.Y kids and the rest of the Dold had been cut out. I set up an orthonormal system and punched the immy. Across the shuddering, shifting room Ted tried to speak, but found it too difficult. Great Gauss, he was lucky his aorta hadn't contracted to a straw and given him a coronary! I clamped down on my own circuIF latory system viciously, while he struggled to speak. Finally he kicked off and came tumbling toward me, mouthing and flailing his notebook. I hit the circuit. The room shifted about and for an instant Ted Anderson hung, ghostly, amid the isomorphomechanism's one to ones. He disappeared! II T he invention of BC-flight was the culmination of a century of work in algebraic topology and experimental psychology. For thousands of years men had speculated as to the nature of the world. For the past five hundred, physics and the physical sciences had held sway. Then Thomas Brill and Ephraim Cohen peeled away another layer of the reality onion, and the spacessciences came into being. If you insist on an analogy -- well, a scientist touches and probes the real universe, and abstracts an idealization into his head. Mathenautics allows him to grab himself by the scruff of the neck and pull himself up into the idealization. See -- I told you. Okay, we'll try it slowly. Science assumes the universe to be ordered, and investigates the nature of the ordering. In the "hard" sciences, mathematics is the basis of the ordering the scientist puts' on nature. By the twentieth century, a large portion of the physical processes and materials in the universe were found to submit to such an ordering (e.g.: analytic mechanics and the motions of the planets). Some scientists were even applying mathematical structures to aggregates of living things, and to living processes. Cohen and Brill asked (in ways far apart), "If order and organization seem to be a natural part of the universe, why can't we remove these qualities from coarse matter and space, and study them separately?" The answer was BC-flight. Through certain purely mathematical "mechanisms" and special psychological training, selected scientists (the term "mathenaut" came later, slang from the faddy "astronautics" that was current at the time), could be shifted into the abstract. The first mathenautical ships were crewed with young scientists and mathematicians who'd received Tom Brill's treatments and Ephraim Cohen's skullcracking sessions on the BC-field. The ships went into BC-flight and vanished. By the theory, the ships didn't go anywhere. But the effect was somehow real. Just as a materialist might see organic machines instead of peomathenauts saw the raw mathematical structure of space -- Riemann space, Hausdorf space, vector space -- without matter. A crowd of people existed as an immensely complicated something in vector space. The study of these somethings wae yielding immense amounts of knowledge. Pataphysics, patasociology, patapsychology were wild, baffling new fields of knowledge. But the math universes were strange, alien. How could you learn M to live in Flatland? The wildcat Blinds of the first crews were too creative. They become disoriented. Hence the immies (short for isomorphomechanisms) and their power supplies -- SayCows, DaughtAmSayCows, DaughtAmRevs, the B.C.N.Y. kids -- fatheads, stuffed Airts, personality types that clung to commonsense where there was none, and preserved (locally) a riiip's psychic ecology. Inside the BC-field, normalcy. Outside, raw knagination. Johnny, Ted, Goldy and I had ckosen vector spaces with certain loplogical properties to test Goldy's commercial concept. Outside the BC-field there was dimension but no distance, structure but no shape. Infide -- iiTy Riemann's tensorsP PearlD cried. He was at the iris of one of the tobes. A moment later Ed Goldwas#er joined him. "What happened to Ted?" "I -- I donH know. No -- yes I do!" I released the controls I had on my body, and stopped thinking about the room. The immy was working again. "He was doing something with the controls when the twiddles circuits failed. When I got diem working again and the room mapped back into shape, he happened to be where the immy had been. The commonsense circuits rejected him." "So where did he go?" asked Pearl. "I don't know." I was sweating. I wai diiakhig of all the things that could've happened when we lost the isomorphomechanism. Some subconscious twitch and you're rotated half a dozen dimensions out of phase, so you're floating in the raw stuff of thought, with maybe a hair-thin line around you to tell you where the ship has been, or maybe two polar dots. Or the ship takes the notion to shrink pea-size, so you're squeezed through all the tubes and compartments and smashed to jelly when we orthonormalize. Galois! We'd been lucky. The last thought gave me a notion "Could we have shrunk so we're inside his body? Or he grown so we're floating in his liver?" "No," said Goldy. "Topology is preserved. But I don't -- or, hell -- I really don't know. If he grew so big he was outside the psychic ecology, he might just have faded away..." The big pataphvsicist wrinkled up his face inside his beard. Alice should be required reading for matbenauts," he muttered reflectively. "The real trouble is no one has ever been outside the psychic ecology when a ship is in BCflight, and been back to tell about it. The animal experiments and the Norherf Wiener just never returned. And there were people, like Wilbur on the Paul R. Halmos. He just disappeared." "But you work outside the field," said Pearl, in a high, desperate voice. The psychist looked pale. "No," said Goldy. "I use, well --  'instruments', powered from the immy." IF Who knows wfcat couldVc happened?" I said, growing nervous myself. "You know you can map the volume of a sphere into the whole universe using the ratio: Ir: R equals R: Or where Ir and Or are the inside and outside distances for the points. Maybe that's what happened to Ted. Maybe he's just outside the math and his acne?" "Down boy," said Goldwasser. 'T've got a simpler suggestion. Let's check over the ship, compartment by compartment. Maybe he' in it somewhere, unconscious." ut he wasn't on the ship. We went over it twice, every tube, every compartment. (In reality, a mathenautic ship looks like a radio, ripped out of its case and flying through the air. We ended up in the ecology section, a big Broadway line subway car that roared and rattled in the middle of darkness in the middle of nothing. The B.C.N.Y. kids were all there -- Freddi Urbont clucking happily away to her boy friend, chubby and smily and an education major; Byron and Burbitt, electronics engineers, ecstatic over the latest copy of C'Quantum; Stephen Seidmann, a number theory major, quietly proving that since Harvard is the best school in the world, and B.C.N.Y. is better than Harvard, that B.C.N.Y. is the best school in the world; two citizens with nose jobs and names I'd forgotten, engaged in a filthy discussion' of glands and organs and meat. The walls were firm, the straw seats scratchy and uncomfortable. The projecton shewed we were just entering the #nd Street stop. How real, how comforting! I slid the door open to rejoin Johnny and Ed. The subway riders saw me slip into freefall, and glimpsed the emptiness of vector space. Hell broke loose! The far side of the car bulged inward, the glass smashing and the had no compensation training! Freddi Urbont burst into tears. Byron and Burbitt sqawcked and yelled as the bubble in the floor swallowed them. The wall next to the nose jobs sprouted a dozen phallic symbols, while the seal bubbled with breasts. The walls began to melt. Seidmann began to yell about the special status of N. Y. City University Honors Program students. All was in confusion, and my chest froze as I realized the psychic ecology was about to collapse. P earl acted with a speed and a surety I'd never have imagined. He shoved me out of the way and launched himself furiously at the other end of the car, now in free fall. There he pivoted, smiled horribly and at the top of his lungs began singing The Purple and the Black. Goldy and I had enough presence of mind to join him. Concentrating desperately on the shape and form of the car, we blasted the air with our devotion to Sheppard Hall, our love of Convent Avenue and our eternal devotion to Lewissohn Stags IF dium. Somehow it saved us. The room rumbled and twisted and reformed, and soon the eight of us were back in the tired old subway car that bi ought its daily catch of Beavers to #th Street. The equilibrium was still precarious. I heard Goldvvasser telling the nosejobs his terrible monologue about the "Volvo I want to buy. I can be the first to break the door membranes, and when I get my hands on that big, fat steering wheel, ohh!, it'll be a week before I climb out of it!" Pearl was cooing to Urbont how wonderful she was as the valedictorian at her Junior High, how great the teaching profession was, and how useful, and how interesting. As for me; "Well, I guess you're right, Steve. I should have gone to B.C.N.Y. instead of Berkeley." "That's right, Jimmy. After all, B.C.N.Y. has some of the best number theory people in the world. It's great to be a number theory major at B.C.N.Y. It's great to mumble and shout about infinite congruences and relative primes and know no one understands you, and wouldn't be interested if they did." "I guess you're right, Steve." "That's right, Jimmy. B.C.N.Y. has some of the greatest educators in the world. Like Dean Cashew, who started the Privileged Student Program. It sure is wonderful. At Berkeley you're just another student, but at B.C.N.Y. you can look down and laugh at all the people not in fb Privileged Student Program." "I guess you're right, Steve." "That's right, Jimmy. At B.C.N.Y. we have people that've turned dowi' full scholarships to Chicago anc M.I.T. Of course, I had to chop oft -- I mean they're quadruple ampu tees, but they love every minute down at the clinic." -- and so on. When the scrap paper and the gum wrappers were up to our knees and there were four false pan han dlers in the car, Johnny called i halt. The little psychist smiled anc nodded as he walked the three o: us carefully out the door. "Standard technique," he murmured to no one in particular. "Doing something immediately rather than the best thing a while later Their morale was shot, so I -- " He trailed off. "Are they really that sensitive?' Goldwasser asked. "I thought thei training was better than that." "You act like they were compo nents in an electronics rig," sai. Pearl jerkily. "You know that re medial sensory perception, the abil ity to percieve the dull routine tha' normal people ignore, is a very deli cate talent. Don't you realize wc mustn't interrupt their concentra with orthodox things, and especially now with the extraordinary!" Pearl was well launched. "In the dark ages such people were called dullards and subnormals. Only now in our enlightened age, do we realize their true ability to know things outside the ordinary senses -- a talent vital for BC-flight." The tedium and meaninglessness of life which we rationalize away -- "A ship is more mind than matter, and if you upset that mind -- Amm. I could hypnotize them. I could, but it fogs the. sense of reality. The sense of reality is very important to -- " He paled suddenly, and the corridor walls began to stutter. 'T, I think Fd better stay with them," he said quickly. "I know how to coach them, and it's better -- " He flung open the door and went back into the coach. Goldwasser and I looked at each other. Pearl was a trained mathenaut, and he'd panicked. But his specialty was people, not paramath. Well, let him stay where he was most effective, check the lab," I muttered. Neither of us spoke as we moved toward the lab -- slap a wall, pull yourself forward, twist round some instrumentation -- the "reaction swim" of a man in free fail. The walls began to quiver again, and I could see Goldy clamp down on his body and memories of this part of the ship. We were nearing the limits of the BC-field. The lab itself, and the experimental apparatus, stuck out into vector space. "Let's make our tests and go home," I told Goldy. "This trip has too much of the stink of failure about it." Neither of us mentioned Ted as we entered the lab. Ill R emember this was a commercial project. We weren't patasociologists studying abstract groups, or super-purists looking for the first point. We wanted money. Goldy thought he had a quick moneymaking scheme for us, but Goldy hasn't been normal since he took Polykarp Kusch's "Kusch of Death" at Columbia, "Electrodimensions and Magnespace." He was going to build four-dimensional molecules. Go back to Flatland. Imagine a hollow paper pyramid on the surface of that two-dimensional world. To a Flatlander, it is a triangle. Flop down the sides -- four triangles. Now put a molecule in each face -- one molecule, four molecules. Neat! And recall that you have infinite dimensions available. Think of the storage possibilities alone. All the books of the world in a viewer, all the food in the world in your pack. A television the size of a piece of paper; circuits looped through dim#. Loop an entire industrial plant through hyperspace, and get one the size and shape of a billboard. Shove raw materials in one side -- pull finished products out the other! But how do you make #-dim molecules? Goldy thought he had a way, and Ted Anderson had checked over the math and pronounced it workable. The notion rested in the middle of the lab: a queer, half-understood machine of mind and matter called a GrahmSchmidt generator. CC Teez, Ed! This lab looks like J your old room back in Diego Borough." "Yeah," said Goldwasser. "Johnny said it would be a good idea. Orientation against that That was the outside of the lab. IF raw topological space, without energy or matter or time. It was the shape and color of what you see in the back of your head. I looked away. Goldwasser's room was a duplicate of his old home -- the metal desk, the electronics rigs, the immense bookshelves, half-filled with with physics and half with religious works. I picked up a copy of Stack's Time and Eternity and thumbed through it, then put it down, embarrassed. "Good reading for a place like this." Goldwasser smiled. He sat down at the desk and began to check out his "instruments" from the locked drawer where he'd kept them. Once he reached across the desk and turned on a tape of Gene Gerard's Excelsior! The flat midwestern voice murmured in the background. "First, I need some hands," said Ed. "So -- " Out in the nothingness two pairs of lines met at right angles. For an instant, all space was filled with them, jammed together every which way. Then it just setted down to two. "Oooppps,," said Goldwasser. "Have to remember that they are just representatives of their equivalence classes. I don't want to fill up all space with my fumblings. Besides, that would twist everything one dimension, and then we'd be back where we started." The lab was in darkness, so in the dimness Goldwasser's big form seemed to crouch menacing over the controls. He wore his engineer's boots and his hair long, and a beard as well. He might have been some medieval monk, or primitive witchdoctor, mumbling spells and setting incantations. He touched a knob and set a widget, and checked in hit copy of Birkhoff and MacLane. "Now," he said, and played witb his instruments. Two new vectctti rose out of the intersections. "Crossproducts. Now I've a right and a left-handed system." All the while Gene Gerard was mumbing in the background: "The Count and Igor his vjervant took the beautiful maiden down to the crypt. 'Ah, now, my pretty snarled the Count. 'Come to my bedchamber, or I'll leave you to Igor's mercies.' The misshapen dwarf cackled and rubbed his paws. 'Decide, decide!' cried the count His voice was a scream. 'Decide, my "Augh," said Goldwasser, and shut it off. "Now," he said, "I've got somo plasma in the next compartment I'm going to release it, and shift tho ions one dimension. His hands poised over the G. S. generator. "Holy Halmos," I whispered. Ted Anderson stood beside tha generator. He looked thinner and paler than ever. The metamathematician's acne stood out plainly and I remembered Pearl's remark that ha didn't know if he should call Ted a Whitehead or a Blackhead. T ed smiled, and went into topological convulsions. I looked away, and presently he came back in to shape. "Hard getting used ta real space again," he whispered. fl "I haven't got long," he said, as that was how he'd planned to start, "so here it is. You know I was working on Ephraim's theories, looking for a flaw. You know the popular explanations of mathenautics. Brill's hypnotherapy and Ephraim's math allow the consciousness to become aware of the abstract structure it put on the universe." I winced, and he smiled painfully at me. "That's for the kiddies," he said, and I saw that Pearl was standing in the iris of the tube. Johnny was stronger than I'd thought! "There isn't any flaw," he said. As he did he seemed to grow thin. "Ted, you're rotating," I cautioned. He steadied, and continued. "There's no flaw. But the theory is wrong. It's backwards. This is the real universe" he said, and gestured. Beyond the lab topological space remained as always, a blank, the color of the back of your head through your own eyes. "Now listen to me, Goldy and Johnny and Kidder. What is the nature of intelligence? I guess it's the power to abstract, to conceptualize. I don't know what to say beyond that -- and I doubt if I ever will. I don't know what it is. But I know where it came from! Here! In the math spaces -- they're alive with thought, flashing with mind! "When the twiddles circuits failed I cracked. I fell apart, lost faith in it all. For I had just found what I though was a basic error in theory. I died, I vanished... "But I didn't. I'm a metamathematician. An operational philosopher, you might say. I may have gone IF mad -- but I think I passed a threshold of knowledge. I understand... "People think that math and science people are cranks -- fellows that can only get passionate about a differential equation, like that Seidmann fellow. But it isn't like that at all. Math and science are beautiful and mysterious arts. The theory of infinity -- "They're out there. The things we thought we'd invented ourselves. The concepts and the notions and the pure structures -- if you could see them..." He looked around the room, desperately. Pearl was rigid against the iris of the tube. Goldy looked at Ted for a moment, then his head darted from side to side. His hands whitened on the controls... "Jimmy," Ted said. I didn't know. I moved towards him, across the lab to the edge of topological space, and beyond the psychic ecology... "But how can I say it? How many people can stay awake over a book of modern algebra, and how many of those can understand? -- I saw a set bubbling and whirling, then take purpose and structure to itself and become a group, generate a second unity element, mount itself and become a group, generate a second unity element, mount itself and become a field, ringed by rings. Near it, a mature field, shot through with ideals, threw off a splitting field in a passion of growth, and became complex. -- saw the life of the matrices; the young ones sporting, adding an# multiplying by a constant, the mature ones mating by composition: male and female make male, femaln and male make female -- sex through anticommutivity! I saw them grow old, meeting false identities and loosing rows and columne into nullity. -- I saw a race of vectors, losing their universe to a newer race ol tensors that conqured and humbled them. -- I watched the tyranny of the Well Ordering Principle, as a fren set was lashed and whipped intn structure. I saw a partially ordered set, free and happy, broken before the Axioms of Zemelo. -- I saw the point sets, with their clicks and clubs, infinite numbers of sycophants clustering round a Bolzano -- Weirstrauss aristocrat -- the great compact medieval coverings of infinity with denumerable shires -- the conflicts as closed sets created open ones, and the other way round. -- I saw the rigid castes of a society of transformations, orthogonal royalty, inner product gentry, degenerates -- where intercomposition set the caste of the lower on the product. -- I saw the proud old cyclic groups, father and son and grandson, generating the generations, rebel and blacksheep and hero, following each other endlessly. Close by were the permutation groups, frolicking in a way that seemed like the way you sometimes repeat a sentence endlessly, stressing a different word each time. n There was much I saw that I did not understand, for mathematics is a deep, and even a mathenaut must choose his wedge of specialty. But that world of abstractions flamed with a beauty and meaning that chilled the works and worlds of men, so I wept in futility. Presently we found ourselves back in the lab. I sat beside Ted Anderson and leaned on him, and I did not speak for fear my voice would break... A nderson talked to Johnny and Ed. "There was a -- a race, here, that grew prideful. It knew the Riemann ace, and the vector space, the algebras and the topologies, and yet it was unfulfilled. In some way -- oddly like this craft, he murmured, gesturing -- "they wove the worlds together, creating the real universe you knew in ycur youth. "Yet still it was unsatisfied. Somehow the race yearned so for newness that it surpassed itself, conceiving matter and energy and entropy and creating them. "And there were laws and properties for these: inertia, speed, potential, quantumization. Perhaps life was an accident. It was not noticed for a long time, and proceeded apace. For the proud race had come to know itself, and saw that the new concepts were... flawed." Anderson smiled faintly, and turned to Ed. "Goldy, remember when we had Berkowitz for algebra," he asked. "Remember what he said the first day?" Goldwasser smiled. "Any math majors? "Hmm, that's good. "Any physics majors? "Physics majors! You" guys are just super engineers! "Any chemistry majors? "Chemistry major! You'd be better off as a cook!" Ted finished, "And so on, down to the, ahem, baloney majors." "He was number happy," said Ed. smiling. "No. He was right, in a way." Ted continued. "The race had found its new notions were crudities, simple copies of algebras and geometries past. What it thought was vigor was really sloth and decay. "It knew how to add and multiply, but it had forgotten what a field was, and what commutivity was. If entropy and time wreaked harm on matter, they did worse by this race. It wasn't interested in expeditions though the fiber bundles; rather it wanted to count apples. "There was conflict and argument, but it was too late to turn back. The race had already degenerated too far to turn back. Then life was discovered. "The majority of the race took matter for a bride. It's esthetic and creative powers ruined, it wallowed in passion and pain. Only remnants of reason remained. "For the rest, return to abstraction was impossible. Time, entropy, had robbed them of their knowledge, their heritage. Yet they still hoped and expended themselves to leave, well, call it a 'seed' of softs." "Mathematics?" cried Pearl. IF It explains some things," mused Goldwasser softly. "Why abstract mathematics, developed in the mind, turns out fifty years or a century later to accurately describe the physical universe. Tensor calculus and relativity, for example. If you look at it this way, the math was there first." "Yes, yes, yes. Mathematicians talked about their subject as an art form. One system is more 'elegant' than another if its logical structure is more austere. But Occam's Razor, the law of simplest hypothesis, isn't logical. "Many of the great mathematicians did their greatest work as children and youths before they were dissipated by the sensual world. In a trivial sense, scientist and mathematicians most of all are described as 'unworldly'... Anderson hobbled his head in the old familiar way. "You have almost returned," he said quietly. "This ship is really a heuristic device, an aid to perception. You are on the threshhold. You have come all the way back." The metamathematician took his notebook, and seemed to set all his will upon it. "See Ephriam gets this," he murmured. "He, you, I... the oneness -- " Abruptly he disappeared. The notebook fell to the floor. I took it up. Neither Ed nor Johnny Pearl met my eyes. We may have sat and stood there for several hours, numbed, silent. Presently the two began setting up the isomorphomechanism for realization. I joined them. IV "The National Mathenautics and A Hyperspace Administration had jurisdiction over civilian flights then, even as it Joes today. Ted was pretty important it seemed. Our preliminary debriefing won us a maximum security session with their research chief. Perhaps, as I'd thought passionately for an instant, I'd have dona better to smash the immy, rupture the psychic ecology, let the eggshell be shattered at last. But that's not the way of it. For all of our progress, some rules of scientific investigation don't change. Our first duty was to report back. Better heads than ours would decide what to do next. They did. Ephraim Cohen didn't say anything after he heard us out and looked at Ted's notebook. Old Ice Cream sat there, a big teddybear-shaped genius with thick black hair and a dumb smile, and grinned at us. It was in Institute code. The B.C.N.Y. kids hadn't sees anything, of course. So nobody talked. Johnny Pearl married a giii named Judy Shatz and they had fifteen kids. I guess that showed Johnny's views on the matter of matter. Ed Goldwasser got religion. ZeoJudaism is pretty orthodox these days, yet somehow he found it suited him. But he didn't forget what had happened back out in space. His book. The Cosmic Mind, came out last month, and it's a good summation of Ted's ideas, with a minimum ff of piritual overtones. Myself. Well, a mathematician, especially a topologist, is useless after thirty, the way progress is going along these days. But Dim-Dustries is a commercial enterprise, and I guess Tm good for twenty years more as a business man. Goldwasser's Grahm Schmidt generator worked, but that was just the beginning. Dimensional extension's made Earth a paradise, with housing hidden in the probabilities and automated industries tucked away in the dimensions. The biggest boon was something no one anticipated. A space of infinite dimensions solves all the basic problems of modern computer circuit design. Now all components can be linked with short electron paths, no matter how big and complex the device. There have been any number of other benefits. The space hospitals, for example, where topological surtlona of et hera... can persuade them to DO on Psychlo Dominance ahowi you In easy-toDynamic Telepathy and Thought Control. Make othen obey you and the world is wide rnabed to you by retom mail in plain thrilled or money back. Send only # to # Konba Driye Yukon, Okla. # gery can cure the most terrible wounds -- and topological psychiatry the most baffling syndromes. (Four years of math is required for pre-meds these days.) Pata-psychology and pata-sociology finally made some progress, so that political and economic woes have declined -- thanks too to the spaces, which have drained off a good deal of poor Earth's over-population. There are even spaces resorts, or so I'm told -- I don't get away much. I 've struck it lucky. Fantastically so. The Private Enterprise Acts had just been passed, you'll recall, and I had decided I didn't want to go spacing again. With the training required for the subject, I guess I was the only qualified man who had a peddler's pack too. Jaffee, one of my friends down at Securities and Exchange, went so far as to say that Dim-Dustries was a hyperspherical trust (math is required for pre-laws too.) But I placated him and I got some of my mathemateers to realign the Street on a moebius strip, so he had to side with me. Me, I'll stick to the Earth. The "real" planet is a garden spot now, and the girls are very lovely. Ted Anderson was recorded lost in topological space. He wasn't the first, and he was far from the last. Twiddles circuits have burned out, NaughtAm-Revs have gone mad, and no doubt there have been some believers who have sought out the Great Race. Ted, I did what I thought was IF IF  Short Str#i Spacemen don't interfere with primitive worlds. Of course, one little act can't matter -- I t was about the size of a grapefruit, and about the color of one. From its top sprouted a cluster of thin, ribbonish tentacles -- translucent, filled with shifting shades of violet and chartreuse, far tougher than they looked. Four pedal extremities, oddly like thumbs with long claws, stuck out from the bottom. It had two flat, pink eyes, set very close together. It squealed as Ray Caradac carried it at arm's length into the control room of the Manta. "Look what w have here," I m said grimly. Mary Caradac -- small, brunette, snapping-eyed, the other half of Extraterrestrial Explor-ation Team #I -- looked up from the bitchboard, where she had been dialing their course away from Sirius IV. "What on Earth -- "she gasped. "On SiriuSy' Ray corrected. "O good old Sirius IV, which we seeni not to have escaped quite as completely as we thought we had." "A baby Sirian!" "That's my guess, from thi glimpses we got of the natives." Astrocharts from her lap, and reachf# cd for the creature. Ray relinquished it, looking disgusted. While Mary cradled it in both hands, he moved three steps across the narrow, instrument-cluttered control room to snap on the rear screen. He focused the screen with one hand, rubbed his home-made crew-cut with the other. Behind him, the Sirian infant squealed, a sound like a viola harmonic. "Where'd you find it?" Mary asked. "Under my bed, of all places. I went to shove my suit-boots under it and change into sneakers, and the critter let out a squeal and damned near scared me out through the side of the ship." "What was it doing thereT "Ask i#." Ray stared glumly out at the dull green globe of Sirius IV, already thirty thousand miles away and retreating at ninety m.p.s. "Maybe it wanted to see the Universe, or just get the hell off its planet. I can understand that, after two hours on the godforsaken ice ball." "It probably likes minus thirty just fine. It's probably roasting right now, poor thing." R ay turned from the gazer. Mary was cuddling the Sirian infant to her breast and fanning it with one hand... "Look out," he said dryly. "It might bite." "So do human babies. Besides, it hasn't got any teeth." Ray looked at the tiny pink mouth, opening and closing horizantally under the eyes like sliding doors. He'd seen enough cockeyed life-forms not to shudder. "Why, look, it couldn't have wandered in," Mary said, twiddling one of the stubby legs. She set it on the chart file, where it immediately went plop on its rounded bottom, legs sticking out like a newborn kitten's. "It can't even stand up." She flashed a hand in front of the pink eyes, and filmy eyelids blinked. The tentacles waved. "I'm no judge of Sirian agp, but I'll bpt it's darned young." She looked wise and extended a finger and two tentacles curled around it, tugging it gently toward the mouth. "Uh, uh," she said. "Not a nipple, son. There, Ray -- you see?" She picked it up again. Another squeal. "I wasn't arguing," he said absently. Then, plaintively: "Just what the devil are we supposed to do with a Sirian infant? And how did it get here, if it can't walk under its own steam?" "Under someone else's, obviously," Mary said practically. Then she paused and cocked her head. Her eyes widened. "Good God! I wonder... come on Ray, let's go look where you found it. I have a perfectly wonderfully preposterous hunch!" They went single-file down the narrow corridor that led to sleeping quarters, Mary carrying the infant. There she waited for Ray to open the door -- as she would have done even if she hadn't had her hands full. The Caradacs had decided long ago that such little niceties should be IF carefully and lovingly observed from nowhere. Things like love and sex can get awfully pedestrian in a sixty-foot spacer, if you don't care for them right. Inside, Mary put the Sirian on Joe's bed and said, "Hold it there." Ray sat down beside the creature and put one hand on its back -- the surface # from eyes and mouth -- and pressed gingerly. Squeal. "I wonder what it eats," he said sourly. Mary was head and shoulders under the bed. She said, "Ah, hah!" and emerged with a handful of dried, crinkly-looking leaves. They smelled faintly like cinnamon. The Sirian's tentacles went zing! and it squealed an octave above any previous effort. "Feed it," Mary said, going under the bed again. Ray put a pinch of the leaves on the blanket, and released the creature, keeping one hand poised to see that it didn't roll off the bed. It dug the claws of its front feet into the blanket, hiked itself toward the leaves, opened its mouth and crunched away. Ray watched, eyes a little glazed. "What -- ?" Mary's head appeared again. In one hand she held more dried leaves; in the other a crude basket about a foot square, high sided, woven of some broad, reddish fiber. She squatted there, holding the basket, and looked at Ray, It took Ray about six seconds to get it. He looked down at the creature, happily chewing leaves, up again at Mary's face. His jaw dropped. She was beginning to grin. Ray clapped a hand unbelievingly to the side of his head, so hard his ears rang. "God in Heaven," he said. "A foundling!" "Basket and all," Mary said. "Only the pathetic note from the mother is lacking." #h, no, it's crazy!" "Crazy or not, it's here." Mary touched a hand to the tentacles, and there was a squeal -- a happy-sounding squeal. "But why?" Ray gasped. "Why should a Sirian mother -- dressed is a threadbare Sirian shawl, no doubt -- abandon her baby in our ship?" "Why do mothers in threadbare shawls usually abandon babies?" "M'm. Because they can't support them. Or because they're illegitimate, or something." "In this case it's probably just something. I don't think it could be a matter of supporting it. A B-# culture's too darned primitive for that. They live right off the soil. This stuff -- "Mary pinched a handful of leaves she'd put on the blanket -- "was everywhere we walked. As for legitimacy, that's never an issue in the pre-M series -- " "Tut," said Ray, academically aroused. "You're assuming, honey. You need ten decimals after B-#, or anything else to really classify. Forbidden fruits all over the place. Besides, maybe our little friend here isn't a waif at all. Maybe we were taken for gods, and it's a sacrifice." Tn a basket? Brought right into this big old terrifying ship?" "Oh, hell, # don't know. Motive X, for alien. That B-# status drove #f U# off the planet so fast... Scram! hands off! clear out! dont influence! and all the rest of Article #, Section #, paragraphs #, #, # and # of the Extraterrestrial Explor -- " "Not a nipple," Mary said, disengaging her finger again. "You know, Ray, I think it's thirsty." Ray glowered at the creature. "I wonder what i: drinks?" "Try water -- but be careful." Ray filled a glass of water from the tiny basin in the corner and held it close to the verticle pink mouth. The mouth wrinkled. The little Sirian scrabbled backward and pressed into the pillow. "So water's out," Ray grunted. He put the glass on the low table between the beds knocking over two pawns and the black queen. "So now what? My God, didn't whoever or whatever left the critter here have sense enough to realize that handful of leaves wouldn't last forever? That we might not have whatever they drink for water?" C#f course not," Mary said placidly. "Now who's assuming? What can you expect of a B-#... a cosmology? Food and water, or their equivalents, have always been around: therefore food and water are everywhere. A B-# couldn't have the slightest idea of what this ship is, or what we are, or where we're from or going and how and why -- " "Then why was the food left?" "Maybe to keep our friend happy until we found it. Oh, I don't know either! I'm just as puzzled as you are. But I do know what we've got to do now." "What?" "Take it back. It'll die if we don't." Ray sat down on the other bed and glared at the two who sat on his Mary and the Sirian infant, which had ceased eating and was now cleaning the waxy skin around its mouth with a tentacle. "Sure," he said. "Take it back. Violate every damned rule in the book. Take a chance on Influencing, by letting them see us again. One time is bad enough -- but the B series have short memories.  Most of it gets corrupted by legend, and after a couple of centuries the legends are obliterated by more recent events and interpretations. But a second time? That's the time that clicks." "We have to, anyway. Maybe you're wrong. Maybe it isn't a B -- " "Honey, I studied forty years not to be wrong. I can look at three artifacts, two flora, the dials on my spy-eye, and write a history." Mary looked stubborn. "We take it back. This isn't in the books." "Maybe they'll tear it to pieces if we do," Ray argued. "Maybe it's a freak -- a sport. Maybe that's why it landed up with us. We might be if we don't, so you get right on up to the board and get us back to that planet. Look how thirsty it is... hey, not a nipple, damn it!" The infant squealed, eyeing the finger. "Nobody'll ever know, Ray. We can't let the poor thing die." Ray sighed and raised his brows. IP Then he lowered one and winked at her. 'What do I get?" "A lot of nothing if you don't." Mary grinned at his back. M y mate dead. She die having little one. I sorry. She best mate. But I sorrier for little one. Soon they kill him. Why kill little ones when mother die having them? Priest say because they kill mother and now no mother to drink from. So they die anyway. But they not kill mother. That what I think. Not their fault. And other mothers with dead little ones. No little ones to drink them. Why not... why not... do for each other? But priest say no. He say they bad. Must die because kill mother. He say he must drink from mothers with dead little ones to keep magic power. He get fat. This go on for long long time. Many thousand suns. But I wonder if he really have magic power or just want to stay fat. Soon priest come to take little one away and kill him. I sorry. Then I think of shiny thing that come down by village out of sky. Everybody afraid. Priest tell us to stay away. Tell us gods angry. Tell us to stay in huts. Things come out of shiny thing. Tall and different. They walk through village. Everybody afraid. I afraid too. But they don't hurt. Don't kill. Don't break huts and eat like animals. T more sorry for little one than afraid. I no let priest kill him. While tall different things walk in village I go out with little one. Nobody see. Everybody afraid to look out. I take little one to shiny thing. Cave in side. I afraid but nothing happen. I take little one into cave and hide him. Leave food so he not cry and priest hear. I think maybe tall different things kill him when find him. But they no hurt when walk in village. And priest take long long time to kill little one if find him. So I hope tall different things treat little one good. I go back to village. Tall different things coming, I hide. They pass. I go into village. Everybody coming out. We see shiny thing go into sky. Everybody afraid. Priest most afraid. He say tall different things bad gods. They angry. Must sacrifice. He want little one to sacrifice. I afraid. I make up story. I say tall different things good gods. I say they take little one away ones wrong. They come to save him. Priest say I lie. I say he lie. I say good gods kill him if he kill more little ones when mothers die. Everybody listen. They say tall different ones didn't hurt. Didn't kill. Maybe I right. Maybe tall different ones really good gods. Priest say not true. He make up story. He say bad gods come because he call them to come take little one away and eat him. He say he call gods to take little one! But I know he lie because they no take. I put little one in shiny thing. But I don't say or they kM kill me for lying. I stick to stOTy. I tell everybody tall different ones good gods. Come to save little one. Priest say they bad gods. Come to take little one and eat him. Come to take us and eat us if we not believe priest. Everybody say wait for sign. Priest say kill me but everybody say wait. Lots of fathers like me. for long time. But they afraid. Priest say it right. He say gods tell him to. We wonder. Maybe priest just want to be priest. Everybody afraid of priest. Give him best food and best mates. We wait. I cry that night. T he airlock hissed. Ray Caradac came in, wearing his spacesuit against Sirius IV's icy cold, but not the helmet -- the planet was breathable. Mary was waiting. "I saw you coming through the gazer. Mow'd it go?" Ray grinned sourly as he zipped down the chest of his suit. Frost CCCCCC rC I i They sf rove fo make a new Eden of fhe Moont Complete Short Novel by Poul Anderson by Damon Knight by Harry Harrison jf on sale now! by Philip Jose Farmer chipped off the metallic doth. didn't leave it out in the brush as I'd planned. Afraid an animal would get it. I waited until dark and then went to the village. They pull in their sidewalks early -- not a soul stirring. I snuck in quiet as I could, and right in the middle of it the damned critter started squealing its fool head off. Familiar smells or something, I suppose. So I just set it down and walked dignifiedly out of the place. Don't know whether anybody saw me, but I suspect they did. Damn -- after all the trouble we went to landing way out here. I looked back at the edge of the brush, and there was a crowd around the kid." He stepped out of the suit and turned to rack it by the airlock, wearing only the standard padded diaper affair. "Funny thing... I thought I saw a light flashing. A white light. But, hell, that's impossible -- unless they have wood that burns white on this clod. Maybe I was seeing things." "Well, I certainly hope it's all right," Mary said. "Shame if they did kill it, poor little thing." Ray stood a moment at the gazer, looking out at the moons-lit brush. "I hope so too, honey. Well -- " he turned to the board -- "let's get out of here, and fast! Before Article #, Section # fights its way right out of the book and jumps down our throats." He paused as the A. G. unit caught, hummed loudly, then softly and steadily as they rose from Sirius IV. "I wonder if it will affect them?' It wasn't until next planetfall, eight months later, that Ray noticed IF that his pencil-flash was missing from his spacesuit breast-pocket. He asked Mary about it and Mary thought startledly; Not a nippier and said not believing it, "Oh, it'll turn up, one place or another." N ext darkness we hear noise. We see tall different one go away. The good gods bring my little one back! Priest come out. Everybody say you wrong. You lie. Gods not eat little one! Priest afraid. He say they bad gods. Bring little one back for sacrifice. They good gods. Little one has cold fire in hand. He throw cold fire at priest. This a new strange thing. God thing. It is a sign! We kill priest. Take him out for the animals to eat. I happy. Everybody like little one. He friend of good gods. Other mothers take care of him. Let him drink. Let other little ones drink. Do for each other, I happy because good gods bring him back to His people, and the First Night did ring with rejoicing; for He had returned from the Land Beyond the Sky and He said unto those who waited They are Good Gods, and I am Their Messenger, and lo! They have given to me a fragment of the Sun that I may shed light over darkness and open your eyes to good and gentle ways. And the false Priests said unto Him, Prove that you speak Truth; and in wrath He smote the Priests with the great light He carried, and lo! the false Priests were unmasked, and fled into the wilderness where they were devoured by wild beasts. Then the people cried, Welcome, and bade Him lead tn, and He said. Care for me, my Children, until I am able. So He was anointed, and fed, and in two suns had grown to manhood; and then He led His People from the valley and taught them to love...  "Always," mused the young Galac Federation student. "Always they come to fill a need. But where dc they come from? What really are their acts? Where do they go?" He closed the Sirian Bible and put it aside, and picked up another.k I 'k... J M One of his companions was human but dead. The other was living -- tk  'k t but was if a man? Complete Short Novel by Gordon R. Dickson by Jack Sharkey #b #b lb lb H lb if if lb lb lb I # by Philip K. Dick k by J. T. McIntosh i  i  i m IF  tim#UH# He wcfs no longer human, yet he must battle on humanity's side against the deadly creature from the stars! I N at Cemp, a class C SiUde, awakened in his selective fashion, and perceived with the receptors that had been asleep that he was now quite close to the ship which he had first sensed approaching an hour before. Momentarily, he softened the otherwise steel-hard chitinous structure of his outer skin, so that the area became sensitive to light waves in the visual spectrum. These he now recorded through a lens arrangement that utilized a portion of the chitin for distance viewing. There was a sudden pressure in his body as it adjusted to the weakening of the barrier between it and the vacuum of space. He experienced the peculiar sensation of the stored oxygen in the chitin being used up at an excessive rate -- vision was always extremely demanding of oxygen. And then, having taken a series of visual measurements, he hardened the chitin again. Instantly, oxygen consumption returned to normal. What he had seen with his telescopic vision system upset him. It was a V ship. Now the Vs, as Cemp knew, did not normally attack a full-grown Silkie. But there had been reports recently of unusual V activity. Several Silkies had been psychologically harassed. This group might conceivably discover where he was heading and use all their energy to prevent him. Even as he pondered whether to avoid them or to board them -- as Silkies often did -- he sensed that the ship was shifting its course ever so slightly in his direction. The decision was made for him. The Ws wanted contact. In terms of space orientation, the ship was neither up nor down in relation to him. But he sensed the ship's own artificial gravity and adopted it as a frame of reference. By that standard its approach was somewhat below him. As Cemp watched it with upper range perception that registered in his brain like very sharp radar blips, the ship slowed, made a wide turn and presently was moving in the same direction as he but at a slightly slower speed. If he kept going as he was, he would catch up with it in a few minutes. C emp did not veer away. In the blackness of space ahead and below, the V ship grew large. He had measured it as being about a mile wide, half a mile thick and three miles in length. Having no breathing apparatus, obtaining his oxygen as he did entirely by electrolytic interchange, Cemp could not sigh. But he felt an equivalent resignation, a sadness at the bad luck that had brought him into contact with such a large group of V's at so inopportune a time. As he came level with it, the ship lifted gently until it was only yards away. In the darkness on the deck below. Cemp saw that several dozen V's were waiting for him. Like himself, they wore no spacesuits, for they were for the time being completely adjusted to the vacuum of space. In the near background. Camp could see a lock that led into the interior of the ship. The outer chamber was open. Through its transparent wall he sensed the water that was inside. A basic longing in Cemp twinged with anticipatory pleasure. He reacted with a startled shudder, then thought in dismay: "Am I that close to the change?" Cemp, in the Silkie stage entirely a creature of space, settled awkwardly on the deck. The special bone structures that had once been legs were sensitive to molecular activity within solid masses; and so it was through energy interchanges within the bone itself that he felt himself touch the metal. In a sense, then, he stood there. But he balanced himself with energy flows, and not by any muscular contractions and expansions. There were no muscles. And it was with magnetic force that he attached himself to the deck, and with internal control that he moved, one after the other, the virtually solid blocks of highly differentiated bone. He walked forward like a twolegged being, feeling the stretch of the elasiicized bone of his legs. Walking was an intricate procedure for him. It meant softening the tough bone each time, then rehardening. Although he had learned long ago how to walk, still he was slow. He who could streak through space at # G's acceleration walked on the deck f the V liner at a mile an hour, and was happy that he could show a semblance of movement in such an environment. He walked to where the V's stood, pausing a few feet from the nearest chunky figure. At first look, a V seemed to be a slightly smaller Silkie, but Cemp knew that these bitter creatures were Variants. V for Variant. It was always difficult to determine which type of V one was looking at. The differences were internal and not readily detectable. And so he had his first purpose: to establish the identity of the V's on this ship. H e utilized that function in his brain which, before it was understood had been labeled telepathy. to communicate his message. There was a pause, and then a V -- who stood well back in the group -- replied with the same communication method: "We have a reason, sir, for not identifying ourselves. And so we ask you to please bear with us until you understand our problems." "Secrecy is illegal," Cemp replied curtly. The answer was surprisingly free of the usual V hostility. ue not trying to be difficult," the V sakL "My name is Ralden, and we want you to see something." "What?" "A boy, now nine years old. He'i the V child of a Silkie and a breather, and he recently showed extreme variant qualities. We want permission to destroy him." "Oh!" said Cemp. He was instantly disturbed. He had a fleeting awareness that his son, from his own first mating period, would now be nine. Relationship, of course, didn't matter. Silkies never saw their children. His training required him to put all Silkie offspring on the same footing. But it was one of the nightmares of the uneasy peace that reigned among the ordinary humans, the Special People, and the two surviving classes of Silkies, that a high-ability V would show up some day in the unstable world of Variants. The fear had proved unfounded. From time to time. Silkies who boarded the V ships learned that some promising boy had been executed by the V's themselves. Far from welcoming a superior child, the V's seemed to fear that if allow'ed to become full-grown he would be a natural leader, and would threaten their freedom. The extermination of promising boys now required the permission of a Silkie, which explained the secrecy. If they didn't obtain permission, they might still kill the youngster, trusting that the murder shin would never be identified. IF "Is that the reason?" Cemp demanded. It was. C emp hesitated. He sensed within himself all that remarkable complex of sensations that meant that he was about to change. This was no time for him to spend a day or so aboard a V ship. Yet if he didn't stay, it would be tantamount to granting permission for the execution, sight unseen. And that, he realized, could not be permitted. "You have done well," he communicated gravely. "I shall come aboard." The entire group of V's moved along with him to the lock, huddling together as the great steel door rolted shut behind them, closing them away from the vacuum of space. The water came in silently. Cemp could see it exploding intogas as it poured into the utter emptiness in the lock, but presently, as the narrow space filled up, it began to hold its liquor form, and it roiled and rushed around everybody's lower extremities. The feel of it was exquisitely pleasurable. Cemp's bones kept softening automatically, and he had to fight to hold them hard. But when the water closed over the upper part of his body, Gemp let the living barrier that made up his outer skin grow soft. Because the feel of the water excited him, now that the change was so near, he had to exercise a conscious restraint. He wanted to suck the warm delightful liquid with visible enjoyment through the gills that were now being exposed. But it seemed to him that such a display of exuberance might give away his condition to the more experienced V's. Around him, the V's were going through the transformation from their space forms to their normal gill state. The inner lock opened, and the entire group swam through with a casual ease. Behind them, the inner lock door slid shut -- and they were inside the ship itself, or rather in the first of the many big tanks that made up the interior. Cemp, using his vision now, looked around for identifying objects. But it was the usual dim watery world with transplanted sea life. Sea weeds swayed in the strong currents that -- Cemp knew -- were kept in motion by a powerful pumping system. He could feel the surge of the water at each impulse from the pumps. As always, he began to brace himself for that surge, accepting it, letting it become one of the rhythms of his life. II C emp had no problems in this environment. Water was a natural element for him, and in the transformation from Silkie to human fish he had lost only a few of his Silkie abilities. All that Silkie inner world of innumerable sensations remained. There were nerve centers which, both separately and in combination, tuned in on different energy flows. In early days, they would have been called senses. But instead of the five to which, for so # IF many centuries, human beings had limited their awareness, the Silkie could record # different kinds of sense-impressions over a wide range of intensity. The amount was on immense amount of internal "noise". Incessantly stimulation poured in upon him. From his earliest days, control of what his sense receptors recorded had been the principal objective of his training and education. The water flowed rhythmically through his gills. Cemp swam with the others through a watery fairyland. It was a warm, tropical sea. As he looked ahead, he saw that the water universe was changing because of their approach. The coral was a new, creamier color. Ten thousand sea worms had withdrawn their bright heads into their tiny holes. Presently, as the group passed, they began to come out again. The coral turned orange, then purple and orange, then other shades of colors and combinations. It was one tiny segment of the submarine landscape. A dozen fishes in blues and greens and purples darted up the canyon. Their wild beauty was appealing. They were an old life form, Nature-evolved, untouched by the magic 'of scientific knowledge that had finally solved so many of the mysteries of life. Cemp reached with webbed fingers for a fish that darted close to him. It whirled away in a flurry of momentarily whitened waters. Cemp grinned happily, and the warm water washed into his open mouth -- ao far had he softened. He was already smaller. There had been a natural shrinkage from the tense, bony Silkie body. The new forming muscles were contracted. The now internalized bone structure was down to a length of seven feet from a space-maximum of ten. Of the thirtymine V's. who had come out to help persuade Cemp to board the ship,  thirty-one -- he learned by inquiry -- were among the common variant types. The easiest state for them to be in was the fish condition in which they lived. They could be humans for brief periods, and they could be Silkies for periods that varied with these particular persons from a few hours to a week or so. All thirty-one had some control of energy in limited amounts. Of the remaining eight, three were capable of controlling very considerable energy, one could put up barriers to energy, and four could be breathers for extended periods of time. They were all intelligent beings, as such things were judged. But Cemp, who could detect on one or the other of his numerous receptor systems subtle body odors and temperatures in water and out, and read meaning into the set of bone and muscle, sensed from each of them a strong emotional mixture of discontent, anger, petulance and something even more intense: hatred. As he nearly always did with V's, Cemp swam close to the nearest. Then, using a particularly resistant magnetic force line as a carrier -- it held its message undistorted for a W few feet only -- he superimposed the question: "What's your secret?" T he V was momentarily startled. The reflex that was tcjggered into picking up the message was so on the ready that it put the answer onto a similar force line which, at that instant of time, was passing through its head in Cemp's direction. And Cemp had the secret. Cemp grinned at the effectiveness that he could now force a conversation. He communicated: "No one threatens V's individually or collectively. So why do you hate?" "I feel threatened!" was the sullen reply. "Since I know you have a wife -- from your secret -- do you also have children?" "Yes." "Work?" "Yes." "News, drama. TV?... "Yes " "Sport?" "I watch it. I don't participate." They were passing through an underwater jungle. Huge, waving fronds coral piled high, an octopus peering at them from the shadows of a cave an eel hissing and then darting away and fish by the dozen -- it was still the wild part of the ship, where the tropical conditions of an earth ocean were duplicated. To Cemp, who had been nearly a month in space without a break, merely swimming here seemed like great sport indeed. But all he said was, "Well, friend. that's all there is for anyone. A quiet enjoyable existence is the most that life has to offer. If you're envying me my police duties, don't! I'm inured to it, but I only have a mating period every nine and a half years. Would you care for that?" The implication in his statement, that Silkies could only have sex at intervals of nine years or so, was not true. But it was a myth that Silkies and their closest human allies, the Special People, had found it worthwhile to foster. Normal human beings particularly seemed to find great satisfaction in what they conceived to be a major defect in the otherwise enviable Silkie. After Cemp completed his reassuring communication, the dark emotion that had been radiating from the V took on added hostility. "You're treating me like a child," he said in a grim manner. "I know something of the logic of levels. So don't give me any of these sophistries." "It's still mostly speculation," Cemp answered gently. He added, "Don't worry, I won't tell your wife that you're unfaithful to her." "Damn you!" said the V, and swam off. Cemp turned to another of his companions and had a very similar discussion with him. This one's secret was that he had twice in the past year fallen asleep while on duty at one of the locks connecting the big ship with outer space. T he third person to whom Cemp addressed himself was a female. Her secret, surprisingly. no IF was that she thout herself insane. As soon as she realized that her thought had come through to him, the substance of her communication became hysterical. She was a graceful being, one of the breathers -- but completely unnerved now. "Don't tell them!" she telepathed in terror. "They'll kill me." Before Cemp could more than consider what an unexpected ally he had found for himself, let alone decide what made her feel she was insane, the female communicated frantically: "They're going to lure you into one of the shark tanks -- " Her almost human face contorted, as she realized what she had revealed. Cemp asked quickly, "What is their overall purpose?" "I don't know. But it's not what they said... oh, please?" She was threshing in the water now, physically disorganized. In a moment it would look odd. Cemp said hastily, "Don't worry -- I'll help you. You have my word." Her name, he discovered, was Mensa. She said she was very beautiful in her breather form. Cemp had already decided that since she might be useful, he would have to let himself be drawn into the shark tank. It was not obvious when it happened. One of the V's who was capable of energy output swam up beside him. Simultaneously but casually the others fell back. "This way," said his guide. Cemp followed. But it was several moments before he realized that he . and his guide were on one side of a transparent wall, and the rest of the group were on the other. He looked around for his companion. The V had dived down, and was sliding into a cavern between two rock formations. Abruptly the water around Cemp was plunged into pitch darkness. He grew aware that the V's were hovering beyond the transparent walls. Cemp saw movement in the swaying weeds: shadows, shapes, the glint of an eye, and the play of light on a grayish body... Cemp switched to another level of perception, based on shadow pictures... and grew alert for battle. I n his fish stage, Cemp could normally fight like a superelectric eel -- except that the discharge was a beam. No contact was required for what he could send forth. The beam had the bright flash of chain lightning, and was strong enough to kill a dozen sea monsters. It was formed outside his body, a confluence of two streams of oppositely charged particles. But this was not a normal time. The change in him was too imminent. Any fight with a denizen of this sea in space would have to be with levels of logic, not with energy. That he dared not waste. Even as he made the decision, a shark swam lazily out of the jungle of waving fronds and as lazily, or so it seemed came toward him, turned on its side and, mouth open, teeth showing, slashed at him with its enormous jaws. Cemp impressed a pattm on an energy wave that was passing through his brain going toward the beast. It was a pattern that stimulated an extremely primitive mechanism in the shark: the mechanism by which pictures were created in the brain. The shark had no defense against controlled over-stimulation of its picture making ability. In .a flash it visualized its teeth closing on its victim, imagined a bloody struggle, followed by a feast. And then, sated, stomach full, it imagined itself swimming back into the shadows, into the underwater forest in this tiny segment of a huge spaceship cruising near Jupiter. As the overstimulation continued, its pictures ceased to connect with body movements at all. It drifted forward and finally bumped, unnoticing, into a coral embankment. There it hung, dreaming that it was in motion. It was being attacked through a logic related to its structure, a level that by-passed its own gigantic attack equipment... Levels of logic. Long ago, now, men had titillated themselves by opening up the older parts of the human brain, where suggested pictures and sounds were as real as actual ones. It was the beast level of logic... not human at all. For an animal like a shark, reality was an on-off phenomenon, a series of mechanical conditionings. Now stimulation. Now not. Movement always, restless motion always -- the endless need for more oxygen than was available in any one location aught as it was in a suggested world of fantasy, the motionless shark body grew numb from insufficient oxygen, and started to become unconscious. Before it could really do so, Cemp communicated to the watchers: "Do you want me to kill this game fish?" Silently, the beings beyond the transparent wall indicated where he could escape from the shark tank. Cemp gave the monster control of itself again. But he knew it would be twenty or more minutes before the shock would wear off. As he emerged from the shark tank a few minutes later and rejoined the V's, he realized at once that their mood had changed. They were derisive of him. It was a puzzling attitude on their part, for so far as they knew they were completely at his mercy. Someone in this group must know why. So -- He saw that they were now in a tank of very deep water -- the bottom was not visible. Small schools of brightly colored fish skittered by in the green depths, and the water seemed slightly colder, more bracing: still delightful but no longer tropical. Cemp swam over to one of the V's who was capable of putting out energy. As before, he asked: "What's your secret?" The male Vs name was Cell, and his secret was that he had several times used his energy to kill rivals for the favors of certain females. He was instantly terrified that his murders would be found out. But he had no information, except that the administrative officer of the ship, RiIF bcr, had sent them to meet Cemp. The name was important information. But even more vital was Cemp's disturbing intuition that this task of duty on which he was embarked was much more important than the evidence had so far established. He divined that the shark attack was a test. But for what? Ill A head, suddenly, Cemp could see the city. The water at this point was crystal clear. Here were none of those the oceans of earth so often murky. Through that liquid, almost as transparent as glass, the city spread before him. Domed buildings. Duplicates of the domed undersea cities on earth, where real water pressure made the shape necessary. Here, with artificial gravity only, water was held in by the metal walls and had only what weight the ship's officers elected to give it. Buildings could be any reasonable size, delicately molded and even misshaped. They could be beautiful for their own sake and need not merely have the sometimes sever beauty of utility. The building to which Cemp was taken was a soaring dome with minarets. He was guided to a lock, where only two of the breathers, Mensa and a male named Grig, stayed with him. The water level began to drop. Air hissed in. Cemp trails, formed quickly to his human shape and stepped out of the airlock into the corridor of a modern, air-conditioned building. They were all three in the nude. The man said to the woman, "Take him to your apartment. Give him the clothes. As soon as I call, bring him to Apartment One upstairs." Grig was walking off, when Cemp stopped him. "Where did you get that information?" he demanded. The V hesitated, visibly frightened at being challenged by a Silkie. The expression on his face changed. He seemed to be listening. Instantly, Cemp activated the waking centers of a portion of the sensory equipment that he had let sleep and waited for a response on one or more. Much as a man who smells a strong odor of sulphur wrinkles his nose, or as someone who touched a red-hot object jerks involuntarily away, he expected a sensation from one of the numerous senses that were now on the ready. He got nothing. It was true that, in his human state, he was not so sensitive as when he was in the Silkie state. But such a totally negative result was outside hii experience. Grig said, "He says... as soon as you're dressed... come." "Who says?" Grig was surprised. "The boy," he replied. His manner indicated: who ehe? A s he dried himself, and put on the clothes Mensa handed him, Cemp found himself wondering why she believed herself insane. He asked cautiously, "Why do V's have a poor opinioa of themselves? "Because there's something better  -- Silkies." Her tone was angry, but there were tears of frustration in her eyes. She went on wearily, "I can't explain it, but I've felt shattered since I was a child. Right now, I have an irrational hope that you will want to take me over and possess me. I wish to be your slave." Half-dressed though she was, her jet black hair still caked and wet, she had told the truth about her appearance. Her olive white skin was formed, her body slim and with graceful curve. As a breather, she was beautiful. Cemp had no alternative. Within the next hour, he might need what help she could give. He said quietly, "I accept you as my slave." Her response was violent. In a single convulsion of novement, she ran over to him, writhing out of her upper garments until they draped low on her hips. "Take me!" she him. "Take me as a woman!" Cemp, who was married to a young woman of the Special People, released himself. "Slaves don't demand," he said in a firm tone. "Slaves are used at the will of their master. Askd my first demand as your master is: open your mind to me." The woman drew away from him, trembling. "I can't," she whispered, "The boy forbids it," Cemp asked; "What in you makes you feel insane?" She shook her head. "Something... connected with the boy," she laid. "I don't know what." "Then you're his slave, not mine," said Cemp coldly. Her eyes begged him. "Free met" the whispered. "I can't do it myself." "Where's Apartment One?" Cemp said. She told him. "You can take the stairway or the elevator," she said. Cemp went by the stairway. He needed a few minutes, just a few, to determine his course of action. He decided -- See the boy! Determine his fate. Talk to Riber, the administrative officer of the ship. Punish Riber! Order this ship to a check-in point! These decisions were hardened in his mind as he reached the upperlevel and pressed the button beside the door of apartment one. The door swung open noiselessly. Cemp walked in -- and there was the boy. H e was slightly under five feet tall, as fine looking a human child as Cemp had ever seen. The youngster was watching a TV screen set into one wall of the big room. When Cemp entered, the boy turned lazily and said, "I was interested to see what you would do with that shark, in view of your condition." He knew! The realization hit Cemp hard. He braced himself and agreed within himself to die; make no bargains to avoid exposure; come to his final decision with even greater care. The boy said, "You couldn't possibly do anything else." Cemp was recovering, but curious. He had set up a complete nosignal condition within himself. Yet the boy was reading detailed signals. How was it done?" IF Smiling faintly, the boy shook his bead. Cemp said, "If you dare not tell, dien it isn't much of a method. I deduce that if I find it out, I can defeat it." The boy laughed, made a dismissal gesture, changed the subject. "Do you believe I should be killed?" Cemp looked into those bright, gray eyes that regarded him with a boyish mischievousness, and felt a qualm. He was being played with by someone who regarded himself as untouchable. Question was, was the boy fooling himself, or was it real? "It's real," said the youngster. And if it was real -- Cemp's analysis continued -- were there built in restraining factors such as kept Silkies under control? The boy said curtly, "That I will not answer." "Very well." Cemp turned away. "If you persist in that decision, then my judgment is that you are outside the law. No person who cannot be controlled will ever be permitted to live in the solar system. But I'm going to give you a little while to change your mind. My advice: decide to be a law-abiding citizen." He turned, and left the apartment. And at least ,one important reality was that he was allowed to do so. IV G rig was waiting on the hallway outside. He seemed eager to please. Cemp, who wanted to meet Riber, asked if Riber was a breather. Riber was not; so Cenqp and Grig took to the water. Cemp was guided to an enormous depth, to where several domes wer# fixed to the inner hull of the ship. There, in a water-filled labyrinth of metal and plastic, he found Riber. The administrative leader of the ship turned out to be a long, strong fish being, with the peculiar, protruding eyes of the fish state. He Vvas floating beside a message receiving machine. In one hand he held the transmitter for the machine. He looked at Cemp and turned the machine on. He said aloud in the underwater language: "I think our conversation should be recorded. I don't think I can trust a Silkie to make a fair report on this special situation." Cemp acquiesced without an argument. The interchange began with Riber making what seemed to be a completely frank statement. He said, "This ship and all aboard are controlled by that remarkable boy. He is not always here, and so for the most part we do as we always have. But those people who went out to meet you had no way of resisting his commands. If you can deal with him, then obviously we shall be free again. But if you can't, then we are his servants like it or not." Cemp said, "There has to be some vulnerable level. Why, for example, do you do as he wants?" Riber said, "I laughed when he first told me what he wanted. But when I came to, hours later, I realized that I had done everything he desired while I was unconscious. Ae a result, I now do it consciously. This has been going on for about a year, earth time." Ilf Cemp questioned Riber closely. That he had continued physical functioning when he was under the boy's control indicated that a shutoff of normal outside perception was the principal method of inducing unconsciousness. Considering that, Cemp remembered the V whose secret was that he had fallen asleep while tending one of the outer locks. At Cemp's request, lock attendants were assembled. He interviewed each one privately with the question: "What's your secret?" Seven of the twenty revealed, in this unwitting fashion, that they had slept while on duty. It turned out to be that simple. The boy had arrived at the lock entrance, blanked out the mind of the attendant, and entered the ship. It seemed to Cemp he need examine no further. There was a frame, logic. The problem, which for a time had seemed to involve some new and intricate kind of telekinetic control, was beginning to look much more mundane. He returned to the woman's apartment and put on clothes again. Mensa went with him to the door. She whispered, "Don't you dare leave this ship without making love to me. I need to feel that I belong to you." Basically, that was not so, Cemp knew. She lived by reversals. She would always want what she did not have, despise or reject what she had. But he reassured her that he meant well by her -- and went up again to Apartment One. IP I t seemed to Cemp as he walked in that the boy's face was flushed and that the eyes that had been so bright were duller. Cemp said softly, "If I can figure it out, so can any Silkie. You went to a lot of trouble. Which tells me you do have limitations." Silkies could approach a vessel, undetected, if they were prepared to manipulate energy waves. But the method wa involved, requiring training. Cemp said, "Well, you know my thoughts. Which one is correct?" Silence. "Your problem," said Cemp emphatically, "is that the Special People take no chances with dangerous deviates." He hoped the boy understood how ultimately determined the Special People were. Abruptly, the boy sighed. "I might as well admit it. I am Tern, your son. When I realized it was you approaching the ship, I thought I'd have a look at my father. The truth is I became frightened that those abilities which you found so unusual would be detected. So I've been out here in space setting up an operating base to which I could retreat for my own protection. But I realize I need help. I think some changes should be made in our relationship with human beings. Other than that, educated." For Cemp, it was the decisive clarification. Then and there he made up his mind. There would be no execution. Hastily -- for Cemp was a man in a hurry -- they discussed the situation. Cemp would have to tell of this meeting when he got back to Earth. There was no way by which a Silkie could conceal the facts from the perceptive Special People. And foi many months, while he was in his mating stage, he would have no control of energy. During that period the boy would be at the mercy of a highly prejudiced law. Tern was disdainful. "Don't worry about me. I'm ready for them." It was rebel talk, dangerous and unfortunate. But this was not the moment to point that out. Such matters could be left until they got home. "You'd better start now," said the boy, "but as you'll see I'll get to Earth before you do." Cemp did not pause to find out how he would achieve such a miracle of speed. That also would have to wait. A s Cemp removed his clothes in Mensa's apartment, he said to her with considerable pride, "The boy is my son." Her eyes widened. "Your son!" she said. "But -- " She stopped. "What's the matter?" Cemp asked. "Nothing." She spoke mechanically. "I was surprised, that's all." Cemp finished dressing, then went over to her, and kissed her lightly on the forehead. He said, "I sense that you are involved in a love relationship." She shook her head. "Not now. Not since -- " She paused. She seemed bewildered. It was no time to check on a womans love life. If ever a maa was in a hurry it was he. When Cemp had gone, the boy came in. "You almost gave m ' away," he said in a tone that was wholly unchildlike. She cringed. "Tm only a V," she pleaded. He began to change, to grow. Presently, a fully adult human male stood before her. He directed toward her energy wave that must have exerted an enormous attraction to her, for in spite of the deepening expression of distaste on her face she swayed toward him. When she was within a foot of him, he cut off the wave. She drew back immediately. The man laughed. But he turned away from her, and for a few moments then he opened a communication line to someone on the planet of a distant star. He said in a silent interchange: "I have finally risked confrontation with a Silkie, one of the powerful inhabitants of this system. He is guided by an idea called Levels of Logic. I discovered that his had to do with his only offspring, a boy he has never seen. I distorted his interest in this child in a subtle way. I think I can now land safely on the principal planet, which is called Earth." "To distort it, you must have had to use him as a channel." "Yes. It was the one risk I took with him." "What about the other channels you have used, Di-isarill?" The man glanced at Mensa. "With one possible exception, they would resist any attempt of a Silkie to exIF plore their minds. They're a rebel group called V's, and are suspicious of and hostile to the other peoples in this system. The exception is a V woman who is completely under my control." "Why not annihilate her?" "These people have some kind of a sensitive telepathic connection, which they seem to be able to manipulate but which I have not wholly solved. If she died I think the others would know instantly. Therefore I cannot do what I normally would." "What about the Silkie?" "He is heading to Earth in a state of delusion. Equally important, he is due to suffer a physiological change which will strip him of all hrs present offensive and defensive powers. I intend to let this physical process run its course -- and then kill him." V C emp had relayed the story through Satellite-Five-R to his contact, Charley Baxter, at the Silkie Authority. When he reached the satellite, and transformed to human, he found a radiogram from Charley waiting for him. It said: "Till you've done away with him, you mean!" Cemp thought angrily, the official action surprised hini: an unexpected obstacle. The commander of the satellite, a normal intelligent human being, who had handed him the message, said, "Mr. Cemp, I have received instructions not to let you on any ferry to Earth until further notice. Thii is very unusual." "Unusual" was an understatement. Silkies ordinarily moved freely to and from Earth. Cemp made up his minS. "I'm going out into space again," he said in a matter-of-fact tone. "Aren't you due for the change?" The officer seemed doubtful about letting him go. Cemp smiled wryly and told the Silkie joke about such things, about how Silkies were like some mothersto-be who kept having false labor pains. Off to the hospital they went. Lay there in bed. At last returned home. And so, after several false alarms, baby finally was born in a taxicab. "Well, sir," said the man unhappily. "You do as you please. But there aren't any taxicabs in space." "It's not that instantaneous; you can fight it off for hours," said Cemp, who had been fighting it off for hours. Before he left, Cemp sent a radiogram to his wife: The coded message would upset her, he knew. But he did not doubt that she would met him at their pre-arranged rendevous, as he wanted. She would come if only to Ilf find out on behalf of the Special People what he was 'jp to Once out in space. Cemp headed for a point over the Snmh Pok. and then he began his entry He came in fast A:.:ording to theory, that was the only way an unprotected approach should he made. The pole were relativclv free of radiation There where the magnetic field of the planetary hodv was bent inward right down to the ground, the potent Van Allen radiation belt was a minimum threat Nonetheless, there were two periods of severe bombardment, one of high energy stripped nuclei, the other Jt X-rays. The X-rays did him nc narm, and, for the most part, the stripped nuclei passed right through his body as if it were a hard vacuum. Those nuclei that hit, however left a small wake of radioactivity. Hastily, Cemp expelled the more seriously damaged cells, with that special ability Silkies had of eliminating damaged parts of their bodies. As he entered the atmosphere, Cemp gradually activated the planet's magnetic force lines behind him. Even as they began to glow brightly, he felt the radar beams from below bouncing from him. But they were not a problem now. Radar would register the movement of his body and the pyrotechnic display to his rear as one  phenomenon. The outward appearance was of a meteorite shooting toward the ground. H is entrance being slantwise in the direction of Earth's rotation, his speed of entry was within his capacity to absorb, or radiate from him, the heat of his passage through the air. At ten miles up, he slowed even more and came down in the sea north of Antarctica about a thousand miles from the lower tip of South America. The cold waters quickly washed from his Silkie body the radioactive debris that still clung to the outer bone. He darted along about five hundred feet up, using the water as a coolant by slowing and diving into it whenever he got too hot. It was a fine balancing of extremely rapid acceleration and deceleration. But he made it to near where he lived at the lower tip of Florida in slightly more than forty minutes, the last five of which were wholly underwater. As he surfaced within sight of the beach, he transformed to his fish stage, and then -- two hundred feet from shore -- to human He had already seen Joanne's car parked on the road behind a sand dune. He did the overhand crawl to get to shallow water, and ran against the surging waves up the embankment to where she lay on a blanket, watching him. She stood up, a slender, very pretty woman, blonde and blueeyed. Her classically even features were white and set now; but she handed him a towel. Cemp dried himself, and climbed into the clothes she had brought. A few minutes later they were in the car; and at this i)oint she accepted his kiss. But she still withheld her thoughts, and her body was rigid with disapproval. When she finally communicated, it was verbally and not by direct eoIF crgy. She said, Do you realize that if you persist in this you will be the first Silkie in a hundred years to get himself punished or executed?" That she spoke out loud confirmed Cemp's suspicion. He was now certain that she had reported his illegal entry to the Silkie Authority, and that people were listening in to this conversation. He felt no blame of Joanne. He even surmised that all the Special People were prepared to help him through this trying period. They were probably also speeding up the investigation of Tern, so that the execution would be quickly over with. "What are you going to do, Nat?" She sounded anxious now, rather than angry. There was color m her face for the first time. At some depth within, Cemp felt vaguely surprised at how determined he was. But the awareness did not trigger any question in him. He said coolly: "If they kill that boy, Fll know the reason why." She said softly, "I never realized that a Silkie could have so much feeling for his child, whom he has not seen since birth." Cemp was irritated. "It's not personal," he said curtly. She said with sudden emotion: "Then you know the reason very well. This boy evidently has a method of concealing his thoughts, and of reading minds -- according to your own account -- that even you could not penetrate. With such a person, the Special People will not have their historic protection. It becomes a matter of policy." "In making my report," said Cemp, "I advised a five year studv and re-education program for th : boy. That's the way it's going to be. ' S he seemed not to hear. She sai i as if thinking out loud: "Silk ies were mutated by humans, on th: basis of the great biological discoeries of the last half of the twent eth century. When the basic lil : major advances in life forms, othe:than those naturally spawned in Na ture, became possible. Because th first transformations were to the fis' stage, the new beings were callev' Silkies -- after an old song. "But it had to be done carefully The Silkie could not be permitted ti breed as he pleased. So his genes, which endow him with so many marvellous senses and abilities, alsc contain certain limitations. He car. be a man, a fish, a Silkie at will So long as he does it by body con trol, he has nearly all his Silkie abil ities in any of these forms. But every nine and a half years he has t( become a human being again, in or der to mate. It's built into him. where he can't interfere with ii. Silkies who long ago tried to elim inate this phase of the cycle were executed. At the time of such r. compulsive change to human form, he loses all his Silkie abilities, ane becomes fallibly human. That's th: great hold we have over him. Thei'. we can punish him for anything il legal he did as a Silkie. Another hold is that there are no female Silkies. If the issue of a Silkie mating with a woman of the Special People is a girl, she is not a Silkie That, too, is built into his genes -- " She broke off: "The Special People are a tiny, tiny portion of the main human stream who -- it was discovered -- had a spontaneous ability to read the minds of Silkies. They used this to establish administrative ascendancy while there were still only a few Silkies, and thus they protected themselves and the human race from beings who would otherwise have overwhelmed them." She finished in a puzzled tone: "You've always agreed that such protection was necessary, for human beings to survive. Have you changed your mind?" When Cemp did not reply, she urged: "Why don't you go to the Silkie Authority and talk to Charley Baxter? A single conversation with him will get you further than any rebellin." She added quickly. "Tern is there. So you'll have to go there anyway. Please, Nat." It wasn't so much, then, that Cemp agreed with what she said. He thought of her suggestion very distinctly as offering a way of getting inside the building -- But he was not too surprised as his helijet came down on the roof to see Charley Baxter waiting for him, tall, rather goodlooking, thin, unusually pale. A s they rode down in an elevator, Cemp felt himself pass through in energy screen -- which instantly sealed off the pulsations from the outside world. And that was normal enough except for the force that was driving the screen. He sensed that the power backing it was enormous enough to protect a city, or even a part of the planet Cemp glanced questioningly at Baxter, and met a pair of sober, serious eyes. The man said seriously, "At this point, you may read me." What he read in Baxter's mind was that his own radiogram about Tern had caused a hasty examination of Tern's record. Result: they decided the boy was normal, and that something very serious had happened to Cemp. "At no time," said Baxter, "has your son been in danger. Now, take a look at that TV picture. Which one is Tern? One is." They had walked from the elevator into a large room. On the TV screen on one wall was a street scene. Several boys were approaching what must have been a hidden camera, for they showed no awareness of its presence. Cemp's gaze flicked across the strange faces. "Never saw them before," he said. "The boy to your right is your son," said Baxter. Cemp looked, then turned and stared at Baxter. And because his brain had energy relationships that by-passed mere neuron connections, he got the whole picture in a singleflash of understanding. That instantaneous comprehension included analytical awareness of how his duty to protect all Silkie children had been skillfully twisted by his pseudo son. It leaped on to a lightning examination of the energy level that had signaled to him. Almost immediately, he realized that the signal was the only direct contact that had been IF made by the boy on the V ship. In every other way, the fraudulent Tern had merely been a recipient of signals. He grew conscious of Baxter's bright eyes watching him. The man asked breathlessly: "Think we can do anything?" It was too soon to answer that. Cemp was gratefully realizing how skillfully he had been protected by the Special People. It seemed to him that if he had suspected the truth at any moment before being taken behind the energy screen that now guarded him -- the false Tern would probably have tried to annihilate him. Baxter was speaking again. "You sit down here, and let's see what the computer makes of the one signal you received." The computer extrapolated three structural frames that might fit the false Tern. Cemp and Baxter studied the coded messages with amazement, for they had not actually considered anything beyond an unusual V frame. All three formulated structures were alien. A quick analysis established that two of the three did not require secrecy on the part of so powerful a being as the invader undoubtedly was. Therefore the third frame, involving a gruesome form of esoteric sex climaxed by the ritual murder of one partner by the other, spiderlike, was the most likely. Baxter's voice had in it a desire not to believe. "That picture of their needing a lot of love objects -- could that be real?" He finished in m a subdued tone: "I'll alert all Silkies, mobilize our other forces -- but can you do anything at once?" Cemp who had already adjusted his sensory system to include all three alien frame was tense and afraid. He said aloud, "I ask myself where he would go and of course it would be to my home. Do you think Joanne would have gotten there yet? Was she supposed to head somewhere else?" He saw that Baxter was shaking his head... Cemp hurried through a door that led to a wide balcony, transformed to Silkie, did a partial cut-off of gravity combined with control of magnetic force lines... a man in a far greater hurry than he had ever been in before. H e entered the large house by the sea in his human form, the better to run the last few yards and maneuver in corridors. And because he had adjusted to the alien sensory structure his arrival was only partly signaled. He found Joanne in the master bedroom, half-undressed. She had never seemed so attractive. Her smile, warm, inviting, friendly, drew him. Some state of excitement she was in communicated to him, stirring an impulse so basic that it was as if a fine translucent sheath ' dropped over his senses, blurring his view of reality. The woman, almost luminescent in a fleshly radiance, lay on the pink bed and his whole being focused on her. For a long moment, nothing else existed. They were two people intensely in love. Breathless, astounded by that instant, hideous power, Cemp put his thought on the possible fate of the real Joanne, put his attention on fear for her -- and broke the spell. The rage, hate and violence that had been building up in him broke through. But the magnetically controlled radiation that Cemp launched at the creature crackled harmlessly against a magnetically controlled energy screen... Frothing, he plunged at the being, grabbed at him with his bare hands. For seconds they grappled, the almost nude woman and the wholly naked Cemp. Then Cemp was flung back by muscles that were ten times as strong as his own. He bounded to his feet, but he was sobered, thinking again. He began to consider the entire problem of Earth in relation to this creature and the threat it represented. The duplicate of Joanne was changing. The body in front of Cemp became that of a man with the frilly clothes of a woman's underdress still draped on the lower part of his body. But there was nothing feminine in his manner. Eyes blazing with the infinite violence potential of the male, the entity locked gazes with Cemp. Cemp was feeling a desperate anxiety for the real Joanne. But it did not even occur to him to ask this creature about her. He said, instead, 'T want you to leave. We'll miles out in space. IF The handsome human face of the other broke into a disdainful smile. go. But I sense in you a plan to learn from me where I come from. That will never happen." Cemp replied in a level tone: "We'll see what two thousand Silkies can get out of you." The being's skin glistened with health, shone with confidence and power. He said: "Perhaps I should remind you that we Kibmadine have achieved a total control of all the forces that Silkies control only partially." Cemp said, "Many rigidities can envelop one flexibility." The other said in an uncompromising voice, "Don't attack me. The price is too high." He started to turn away. And there was a moment, then, when Cemp had another thought, anorher feeling: a reluctance to let this being go without some attempt to reach across the abyss that separated them. Because this was man's first contact with an alien intelligence. For a few fleeting seconds Cemp remembered the thousand dreams that human beings had had for such a meeting. His hesitation came to its inevitable end. The infinitely hostile reality moved in to fill the endless void between' them. Instants later the alien was out on the patio, dissolving, changing -- and was gone. C emp contacted Baxter and said, "Line me up with another Silkie so that he can take over. I'm really awfully close to my change." He was lined up through the Silkie communications hub with a SKlkie named Jedd. Meanwhile, Baxter said, "I'm on my way over. I have been given a lot of governmental power." Cemp found Joanne in one of the spare bedrooms. She lay on the bed, fully dressed, breathing slowly and deeply. He sent a quick flow of energy through her brain. The reflexes that were stirred reassured him that she was merely sleeping. He also picked up some of the alien energy that was still in her cells. They told a story that made it instantly obvious why she was still alive: The Kibmadine had used her living body as a model for his duplication of her. On this occasion at least the creature had been after bigger game: a Silkie. Cemp did not try to rouse the sleeping woman. But he was greatly relieved as he went out onto the patio, which overlooked a white, sandy beach and the timeless blue ocean beyond. He sat there until Baxter presently joined him. They had already communicated mentally, and now Baxter said, "I sense a doubt in you." Cemp nodded. Baxter asked gently, "What do you fear?" DeathV It was a feeling deep inside him. Sitting there, he made up his mind -- for the second time since he had become involved with the alien -- to die if necessary. And with that decision, he began to turn on his receptors, all of them except that to start, he tuned out local Earth noise. TV, radio, innumerable energies from machines -- these had to be shut away from him. Swiftly, then, he began to "hear" the signals from the plenum. Long before Silkies it had been known that space was alive with messages; the entire sidereal universe pulsed with an incredible number of vibrations. Hour on hour and year by year, Silkies, lived with that ceaseless "noise", and most of their early training was entirely and exclusively directed to the development of selective sleep and rest and wakefulness mechanisms for each receptor. Now -- those that were asleep awakerred. Those that were at rest alerted. His brain came to peak awareness. He began to sense the near stars, the distant stars the clusters the galaxies. Every star had its only complex signal. Nowhere was there a duplication or even a close sim ilarity. The universe that he tuned in upon was composed entirely of individuals. Cemp appraised the distance of each star, the uniqueness of each signal. Friendly space world! Every star being exactly and precisely what it was and where it was gave meaning to the immense stellar universe. There was no chaos. He experienced his own location in space and time,and it gave him a certainty of the basic rightness of things. H e came back from his farflung ranging to about a million mdes from Earth. There he paused to let the signals come in from all of the space between Without opening his eyes, he said to Baxter, "I don't read him. He must have gone around the planet and put the mass of Earth between him and me. Are the reflectors ready?" Baxter talked on a phone line that had been kept open for him. Previously alerted Telstar and astronomical satellites were placed at Cemp's disposition. Through one of the reflectors, he focused on the invading entity. Cemp said to the alien, "Above everything else we want information." The other said, "Perhaps I should tell you our history." And so Cemp was given the story of the eternal lovers, more than a planetary system to another, and each time altered themselves to the form of the inhabitants and established a love relationship with them -- a love relationship that meant death and pain for their loveobjects. Only twice had the lovers met beings of sufficient power to make them draw back. In each instance, they had destroyed the entire system. Di-isarill finished: "No additional information is available no matter what you do." Cemp broke contact. A shaken Baxter said, "Do you think that was true information?" Cemp answered that the thought it was. He finished with finality: "Our job is to find out one thing: Where does IF ke come from? And then destroy him" But how do you propose to do this?" I t was a good question. His single clash with the creature had brought him up hard against a wall of power. Cemp sank lower into his settee and with closed eyes considered the problem of a race of beings who had complete control of body change. Many times in those long duty watches out in space, he had pondered such possibilities; for the cell could grow and ungrow, divide, split off, fall away and re-form, all within a few seconds. In the twilight varus, the bacteria and the cell had their complex being, the enormous speed of change had made possible the almost instantaneous orderly altering of human to Silkie and back again. The invader apparently could change to an infinite number of forms with equal rapidity, assuming any body shape at will. But the logic of levels applied to the Kibmadine's every action. From somewhere behind Cemp, Baxter said, "Are you sure?" His voice sounded incredulous. Cemp had two reactions to the question: Extreme joy at the hope that his analysis brought... and the stronger conviction. He said aloud, "Yes, logic applies. But for him we'll need the closest contact of the energies involved. Inches would be better than feet, feet better than yards. So FU have to get out there in person." "Out where?" Baxter asked, almost incredulous. "To his ship." "Do you think he has a ship?" "Of course he has one. Anything else would be impractical for his operations. Cemp was patient as he made his explanation. He had observed that even the Special People had exaggerated ideas on such matters. They tended to accept that Silkies were more capable than they were. But the logic of it was simple: coming in toward a sun, one could utilize its full gravitational pull to get up speed. Right now the Kibmadine would be "climbing the ladder" of the planets, cutting off the sun's gravity from behind, opening up to the pull of Jupiter and the outer planets. No sensible being would try to bridge the distances between stars by such a method. So there was a ship. There had to be. Cemp said, "Order a spaceship for me, complete with a tank of water that can be moved." "You expect to change before you get there?" "It'll happen any minute." Baxter said, amazed, "You intend to confront the most powerful being that we can imagine without a single bit of energy of your own available?" "Yes," said Cemp. "It's the only way we'll get him within inches of the energy source I want installed in the tank. For heaven's sake, man, get started." Reluctantly, Baxter reached for the phone. vm A s Cemp expected, he began his change en route. By the time he was put aboard the Kibmadine ship, he was already in a tank of water in his first compulsive change, which was to the fish state. He would be a class B Silkie for slightly more than two months. As Di-isarill came finally to the tiny ship in its remote orbit beyond Pluto, he noticed at once that the entrance mechanism had been tampered with, and he sensed the presence of Cemp aboard. In the course of countless millennia his fear reflexes had fallen into disuse. So he had no anxiety. But he recognized that here was all the appearance of a trap. In a flash, he checked to insure that there was no source of energy aboard that could destroy him. There was none; no relay; nothing. A faint energy emanated from the tank. But it had no purpose that Diisarill could detect. He wondered scathingly if these human beings expected somehow to work a bluff whereby he would be impelled by uncertainty to stay away from his own ship. With that thought, he activated the entrance mechanism, entered, transformed to human, walked over to the tank that stood in the center of the tiny ' cabin -- and looked down at Cemp, who lay at the bottom. Di-isarill said, 'Tf it's a bluff, I couldn't possibly yield to it because I have nowhere else that I can go." In his fish state, Cemp could hear and understand human words but could not speak them. Di-isarill persisted: "It's interesting that the one Silkie whom I cannot read has taken the enormous risk of coming aboard. Perhaps you were more affected by the desire I attempted to rouse in your home than appeared at the time. Perhaps you long for the ecstasy and the anguish that I offered." Cemp was thinking tensely: "It's working. He doesn't notiee how he got onto that subject." The logic of levels was beginning to take effect. I t was a strange world, the world of logic. For nearly all of his long history, man had been moved by unsuspected mechanisms in his brain and nervous system. A sleep center put him to sleep. A waking center woke him up. A rage mechanism mobilized him for attack. A fear complex propelled him to flight. There were a hundred or more other mechanisms, each with its special task for him, each in itself a marvel of perfect functioning but degraded by his uncomprehending obedience to a chance triggering of one or another. During this period, all civilization consisted of codes of honor and conduct and of attempts noble and ignoble to rationalize the unknown simplicities underneath. Finally, came a developing comprehension and control of the neural mechanisms, one, then another, then many. The real age of reason began. On the basis of that reason Cemp asked himself: Was the Kibmadine IF level lower, or higher, than for example the shark? It was lower, he decided. The comparison would be, if man had brought cannibalism into civilization with him. A lower level of logic applied to that. The shark was relatively pure within his frame. He lived by the feedback system, in a pretty good balance. He did not age, as humans did. He grew older -- and longer. It was a savagely simple system. Keep in motion: that was the law of it. What poetry that motion was, in the wide, deep sea that had spawned him! But it was -- feel need of oxygen, get excited, swim faster; enough oxygen, slow, cruise, even stop. But not for long. Movment continuous -- life. Eating, of itself, was lower, more basic, went farther back into the antiquity of the cell. And so, the mighty Kibmadine had brought into their innumerable forms one pattern that was vulnerable. one they wouldn't give up, no matter how much they controlled the other basic mechanisms of their bodies... D i-isarill was calm as he sped through space. He sensed that he had subtly managed to influence Cemp to the fear of intolerable retaliation... Unfortunate that the Silkie had analyzed the Kibmadine structure so accurately. It made direct reading of Cemp's feelings and thoughts difficult. Not that it mattered. Under other circumstances. Earth might well have been a planet to be destroyed. But there was no chance at all of enough Silkies being produced in time to save the system from being conquered. And so another race would, one at a time, experience the ecstasy of being eaten as the culmination of the act of love... What a joy it was to receive resistance, terror, shrinking;, and then the inversion: every part of the being craving to be eaten, longing, begging, demanding -- Di-isarill's calmness yielded to excitement, as the pictures and the feelings re-formed in his mind, from ten thousand remembered feasts of love-objects. "I really loved them all," he thought sadly. Too bad they were not brought up to appreciate in advance the ultimate delight of the all-consuming end of the sex orgy. It had always bothered Di-isarill that the preliminaries had to be secret, particularly with beings who had the ability to transmit thoughts to others of their kind and thus warn them. The greatest pleasure alwayi came when the ending was known, when part of the love play consisted of reassuring the troubled, treinbling being, quieting the pounding heart. "Some day," he told thousands of love partners, "I shall meet someone who will eat me. And when that happens -- " Always he had tried to persuade them that he would rejoice as he was being devoured. The inversion involved was e #f phenomenon of the life condition: first, resistance, terror, shrinking; then every part of the being craving to be eaten, longing, begging, demanding. The urge to succumb could be as powerful as the urge to survive. Standing there in front of the tank, looking down at Cemp, Diisarill felt a quickening of emotion as the conjuration of himself being eaten flitted like a fantasy through his brain. He had had such pictures before but never before so strong. He did not notice that he had passed the point of no return. W ithout thinking, he turned away from the tank. Cemp forgotten, he transformed quickly into a remembered form, longnecked, with smooth dappled skin and powerful teeth. He remembered the form well and lovingly. The members of the race had been love objects for the Kibmadine not too long ago. Their bodies had a particularly excruciating pleasure nerve system. Di-isarill could scarcely wait. Even as he became the form, his long neck twisted. A moment later the teeth, impelled by the merciless Kibmadine biting drive, cut off an entire thigh. The pain was so hideous he screamed. But in his enchanted brain the scream was only an echo of the countless screams that his bite had evoked in the past. Now, as then, the sound excited him almost beyond endurance. He bit deeper. champed harder, at faster. He devoured nearly one half of his own body before the imminence of death brought a baby fear from his own true past. Whimpering, blindly longing for home, he opened a line to his contact on the planet of the far sun where his kind now dwelt. At that instant an outside force surged past him and overwhelmed his personal communication. As one, a dozen Silkies loaded an electric charge on that line, all they believed it could carry. The charge that struck the distant Kibmadine totalled more than # volts and over # amperes of electricity. It was so powerful it smashed all his reflex defenses and burnt him in a single puff of flame and smoke. As quickly as it had opened, the line ceased to exist. The Sol system was now only an anonymous, distant star. T 'he tank with Cemp in it was carried to the ocean. He crawled out into the sea, breasted the incoming tide. The bubbling fresh liquid poured through his gills. As he reached the deeper water, he submerged. Soon the thunder of the surf was behind him. Ahead was a blue sea and the great underwater shelf where a colony of class B Silkies lived their fishlike existence. He would dwell in their domed cities with them... for a time. IF loimiRim Fastest-Growing New Science-Fiction Magazine! Don't mail the coupon -- if you want to keep the magazine intact -- just brder on a plain sheet of paper -- but, however you do it, rush in your that readers call "the best thing that's happened to science fiction in a dozen years" -- the magazine that has already brought you great novels by Arthur C. Clarke and Philip K. Dick -- novelettes and complete short novels by Murray Leinster, Keith Laumer, J. T. McIntosh and a dozen other favorite writers, etc. Every issue is new... exciting... enjoyable! Don't wait -- subscribe today! You can order them separately at # each postpaid -- OR -- list issues desired below and we will ship them at once and deuct that number from your subscription. I #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # at your special pricq of only #. I enclose payment herewith. My subscription is O new,  renewal. Name Send me back issues as fallows: Address #i, n##, n##. If you want back issues, check attached box. One subscription issue will be subtracted for each back issue you order.  ##, DfS, ##. J its vividly real telepathic society, detailed so ingeniously and dra madcally that, finismng the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, Address Th# Original Edition -- Completol Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yot Yours For Only #I Plus Postage #fl I Enclose.  D# A Retief Story Don't Miss -- Fastest-Growing New Science-Fiction Magazine! Don't mail the coupon -- if you want to keep the magazine intact -- just brder on a plain sheet of paper -- but, however you do it, rush in your that readers call "the best thing that's happened to science fiction in a dozen years" -- the magazine that has already brought you great novels by Arthur C. Clarke and Philip K. Dick -- novelettes and complete short novels by Murray Leinster, Keith Laumer, J. T. McIntosh and a dozen other favorite writers, etc. Every issue is new...  exciting... enjoyable! Don't wait -- subscribe today! You can order them separately at # each postpaid -- OR -- list issues desired below and we will ship them at once and deuct that number from your subscription. #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # "I at your special price of only #. I enclose payment herewith. My subscription is Q new, Q renewal. Name  Send me back issues  as follows:   Address... , #i, m##.  ##, City Zone State  ##,  ##,  ##.l ! If you want back issues, check attached box. One subscription issue will be subtracted for each back issue you order. Frederik Pohl, Editor Sol Cohen , Publisher Diane Sullivan , Associate Editor David Perton, Production Manage IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol, #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York, #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # m the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. AH material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between character and actual persons is coinciaental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, M. Y. IF  Eiifrid I n the May # IF a chess-playing computer called "The Machine" was the hero of Fritz Leibers novella The #Square Madhouse . Recently we've learned that at computer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was programmed for chess and allotted only two hours to demonstrate its skill. (Computer time is costly!) Nevertheless formidable player, especially in complicated middle-game positions, as described by Milt Garber, part-time chess consultant on the project, in the February # Chess Life. No connection between the real and fictional chess-robots -- which makes it interesting to compare their performances. ahead for each player (eight plies deep). The Machine: ten plies. Both evaluated future positions in terms of strength and development of pieces, .control of the center of "point count" chess, with numerical values assigned to all of the above. Neat touch: the chess king was given an infinity value, since winning the king wins the game. Another used "an alpha-beta heuristic program" to avoid wasting time oa trivial moves. per move. The Machine: # minutes. voted to a move from a few seconds to # minutes or more. The Machine: ditto. The Machine was programmed by ber says, "The advice of a grandmaster would have been extremely helpful." The machine was programmed wasn't, due to lack of memory capacity and of time available for writing the program. "played well in the opening and middle game, but failed badly in the end game -- simply because it had no end game program" -- which in turn was due once again timelimitations on program-writing. Aland other earlier computers programmed for chess. By contrast, The Machine tied for third in a very strong tournament against flesh-and-blood chess masters. Seems like a reasonable degree of correspondence between science fiction and reality! -- The Editor Secrets entrusted to a few # he hnpuMiled cf Mfe be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious WTe Rosicrucians c organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings . Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe H.C.H. ! Scribe H.C.H. i San Jose, California J Please send me the free book,Tbe Mastery  , of Life, which explains how I may learn to ! i use my faculties and powers of mind. J Name i i  Address j I i IF  Novelette He was a warrior slave of the mightiest power in space -- and his deadliest foe was himselfl I J en awoke to a gentle bobbing and stared up through clear plastic at a dark bluish-gray sky. For a moment the color seemed frighteningly wrong. Then his mind struggled out of the dull confusion that mired it. Of course there was nothing wrong with the sky. He must have been dreaming; in fact, shards of the dream still lingered, but they were going fast. A name whispered itself: Steve Duke. He frowned over that. Who was -- Now even the name was gone. He was Jen, and there'd been something about a bump on the head, which was probably why he couldn't remember how he'd gotten here. He was in a treadbag, afloat on a mildly choppy sea. The sea was dark purple, which was right, and die sun coming through the plastic was warm. He felt the bump on his head. Not a bad one. He thought he recalled that he'd been on a hunt, and had fallen off a cliff; but maybe that was another dream. The beach he could see didn't show any familiar details, so he must have drifted far from his hive. He sat up and rubbed at a welt on his thigh where he'd lain across the edge of one of the treadbag's metal hubs. He got off the hub and looked in its food compartment. There were only two cubes of concentrate, though he couldn't remember eating the rest. He put one in his mouth and saved the other. He checked the water compartment and found it empty. Kneeling on the hub, he reached over his head to the other hub and found that one had neither food nor water. He must have been lost several days! But apparently he'd had consciousness enough to eat and drink and jettison his wastes. He checked everything in each hub. There was very little reserve oxygen, and the batteries were low. He'd have to get the bag upright and get it to shore. He dismissed "Steve Duke" from his mind and got to work. I t wasn't easy to right a bag in active water. This kind of treadbag was thin plastic, shaped when inflated like a spherical balloon slightly flattened at the sides. The tread, simply thickened ribs of plastic, was around the long circumference. The diameter across that way was a little over seven feet, whereas it was only four from hub to hub. A bag floated on one side or the other. He got his fingers and toes hooked in handholds and threw his weight to the side. The bag rocked but didn't make it upright. He tried harder, and this time the bag went clear over and he got bumped around. On the fifth or sixth try he made it, then got the bag spinning by trotting up the curve before him, like a chipmunk in an exerciser. Now the batteries in the hubs would begin to charge, and he could recycle air if he had to. When he got to the beach he'd look for fresh water. He watched the shoreline, enjoying the way it winked and distorted as the treads passed before his eyes. When he was close he saw treadmarks on the sand. That meant he was within rolling distance of a hive. He wondered what they'd do with a stranger who couldn't even remember where he came from. A bag came into sight and rolled fast down the beach to intercept him. It was there ahead of him, because he couldn't make much speed in the water. He made the sign for trouble, and the man in the other bag acknowledged. Jen saw that he was quite old. Other bags were gathering now, most of them occupied by humanoids instead of men. One species was unfamiliar. Jen signaled Confusion, Hunger IF and Thirst. The old man nodded, pointed up the beach, made the Hive sign and led the way. They turned off the beach onto a trail through the spiny grass that choked most level land. It seemed taller and thicker here than around Jen's own hive, and made a harsher sound against the bag. Ahead, he could see nothing but a ridge covered with ordinary squat blue-green trees. It wasn't until they topped the ridge that he saw the hive, a clear inflated dome a quarter-mile across, with buildings and smaller domes inside. The Symbol of Gree -- four upright lines and a horizontal one, to represent a humanoid hand -- loomed large high up on the plastic. There were humanoid females working the fields around the hive, but he saw no human women. W hen they were half a mile from a dome a sentryglobe dropped down to hover ahead of them and they came to a halt. The globe extended a feeler against the old man's bag, listened and evidently passed him on, for he left with a gesture of politeness to Jen. The globe put its feeler against Jen's bag 'and its flat voice asked, "Who are you?" "I am Jen, number # # #. I do not remember any more. I was floating in the sea." "Are you ill?" "I don't feel ill. I think I got a bump cn the head." The globe said, "The Inquisitor, then," and hovered so its weapons cou'd b ar while Jen rolled to the hive entrance. Another globe took custody in the lock and pointed its feeler to the Inquisitor booth. The door opened to admit him, then closed behind. In the darkness a deep gentle voice, the voice of all Inquisitor booths, said, "What do Gree's loyal slaves say of him?" Jen felt the tightness in the throat, the welling of tears, that were always the response to that question. "Gree is Love," he stammered. "Gree is Beauty. Gree is Wisdom and Protection; the Sustainer and -- and the source of Comfort. Gree is All." "What is the purpose of your existence?" "To -- to obey Gree, and serve Him; and repay all I can of His Kindness." "What is your number, again?" "# # #." "What is your hive?" "I do not remember." "What is your race?" "Human." "What is your age?" "I do not remember." After a short wait, the voice said, "Your answers are truthful, Jen. Your hive is nearly one hundred miles from here. You were lost on a hunt and have evidently floated this far. Your age is twenty-three. We will adopt you. You may pass, Jen." Twentythree, Jen thought as he rolled from the booth. So young? The old man was waiting to lead him to the men's barracks. They passed small domes where fruits were growing or where livestock grazed in special atmospheres, and turned into a down-ramp near the center of the dome. There were two sets of locks, then they were among men. Jen tripped the bleeder-valve and the bag grew limp. He released the seals on both hubs, pulled hem free of the plastic and set them carefully outside. He climbed out, then ran his fingers around the beaded edges of both holes to make sure they were all right. He already knew, of course, that there were no significant scratches on the rest of the bag. A man was always on the lookout for those. He folded the bag and turned it in to Supply, along with the hubs which would have to be thoroughly tested and restocked. He turned to the old man. "I am Jen. I want to thank you for bringing me in." The other nodded. "You'll be staying with us, I judge. My name is Trav. And this is Holl, and Redn, and... come, I'll take you to the foreman. His name is Bargo." II B argo was a husky man of thirty or over, scarred as if he'd fought many contests. He looked Jen over. "Twenty-three, eh? Well, I can surely use a trained hand, and one well put together like you. They hardly let me get a novice out of puberty before they draft him. There'll be room for you on the wrestling team, and in the war games of course, and in two or three days I hope to stage a goar hunt. Guess that won't be new to you, eh?" "Uh, no," Jen said, embarrassed. "My memory's a little out of whack, though, you know." The fact was, he couldn't remember for sure what a goar looked like. The had him in the learning machines for the next two days, checking his education and giving him reviews. Then they released him for the time, but told him he'd have to spend fifteen hours out of each hundred in review. The hives all had standard curricula, of course -- as did the adolescent schools and the creches, from which he must have come -- but there were a few gaps in his recollection. Otherwise, things were fine. He wrestled, and got to the barracks semi-final. Then they spent a day inspecting bags and equipment for the goar hunt. He was dismayed to find he knew little about the hunting-bags, but he watched and listened and found they weren't complicated. That night he dreamed he was afloat again. The waves forced him in to shore where a heard of raging bovines with terrible horns and fiery eyes bellowed and stamped their hooves and made little dashes into the surf in their eagerness to reach him. A very wise creature that he could not quite see, because it shifted away when he tried to look at it, somehow got in his bag with him and told him, "Those may be goar and they will tear your bag and let the outside air in to suffocate you, and if you're not extremely clever and agile they'll trample your bag to bits, and you too, and gore you. But you must not forget for one instant, even if you are dying in the most terrible agony, that you are IF Jen, a loyal and obedient and loving slave of Gree. Now I shall go away and leave you to face the goar alone, because I must not be discovered." And the waves carried him in while the herd poured out to meet him; and they ripped his bag to nothing and he gasped in the atmosphere which was heavy with carbon dioxide but had little oxygen; and he was tossed about on the horns, nude and bleeding and in shreds; and whenever he fell he was pulped by the sharp, terribly heavy hooves. Then Gree, who was sometimes a blaze of light and sometimes more like a tent, came and lifted him clear and pushed the goar away, and patted him together with an adhesive, and put salve on his hurts, and patched his treadbag and put him in it, and said, "I will sustain you because you are Jen, my obedient slave." Jen awoke sobbing. The hunting-bags were of thickA er plastic than the standard model, and had more complex hubs, each with an outside grapple. Also there were two weapons in each hub: a laser that squirted a thin beam of light, hot enough to slice flesh, and a bullet-port that released null-grav pellets which travelled in a straight line at exactly one thousand feet per second and would detonate spontaneously at one thousand feet if they hit nothing sooner. Both weapons aimed straight out from the middle of the hubs. Jen didn't see how anyone could aim a bag accurately enough to hit anything more than a few feet away. Besides Jen and Bargo, only four others were going on the hunt: Holl and Redn and two men named Walter and Skell. About four dozen men in their late teens, who were going out in standard bags under Trav's instruction for simulated hunts and contests along the beach, enviously watched them go. Jen got into his bag, sealed the hubs in place, and inflated to a couple of pounds above room pressure. They went through the locks crossed the dome and left by the inland exit. The bag was firm out here. He noticed that the others were more skillful at treading the bags than he was. They left the cultivated areas and took a rising trail inland, facing into the early sun. The trees grew thick here, too tall to see over. Bargo led them to the top of the nearest ridge. On the other side, farther from the sea, the trees grew in scattered clumps and there was no cut trail. They went north on the ridge, staying as high as they could. Jen had trouble with the side-slope, but managed. After an hour of travel, Bargo took a small telescope from a case at his waist and gave the valley between them and the next ridge a careful search. Most of it, below the tree-line, was thick with spiny grass. A stream, lined with trees, wound down the middle. They rolled down the slope fast, dodging clumps of trees, and now Jen really had it hard. When they got to the thick grass it was easier, because it slowed them. Bargo found a place where the stream crossed and led them over. Presently he pointed at the far slope and signalled, "Fresh trail." Jen saw a spoor of flattened grass, at least ten feet wide, as if a large tent had been dragged up the lope. Evidently a goar was not a bovine after all. A fter lining up landmarks, Bargo split the party, Jen and Holl with himself, Skell leading Redn and Walter. They rolled apart and started up the ridge parallel to the goar's trail, each two hundred yards to the side of it. The other slope of the ridge was rocky for a mile down, but beyond that there was rolling country, with trees and grass. Bargo searched with his glass again, then they went down to the grass and looked for signs. There were none. The goar evidently had its lair among the rocks above them. Bargo nodded and turned his glass that way, studying the rocks for a long time. Then the other three bags joined them and they began working up the slope. Bargo found a cluster of huge rounded boulders he liked, and they scouted them carefully for a base, noting where a bag might get wedged between rocks or gashed on a sharp one, and where the lines of retreat were. Then he got them distributed rather wide apart, each handy to cover. Finally he rolled on up the slope alone. Presently he stopped and used his glass again, then hitched his bag around and fired a bullet which detonated a little way short of a great crumbling mass of rock. He waited. A rock bigger than a man's head came arching into sight as if frojn a catapult. Bargo avoided that easily, but a minor avalanche followed and he spun down the slope aa skidded into cover. The rocks shattered themselves against the protecting boulders. A shard the size of Jen's hand grazed his leg, leaving a visible mark. Nothing that size, at that speed, could pierce the plastic, but a bigger chunk might damage a hub. Something poked into sigh and came flowing down the slope like a monstrous flattened snake. It was easily ten feet wide and thirty long, but didn't look more than two feet thick anywhere. The front end tapered to a snout from which thrust a spade-shaped horizontally flat tusk or horn that flashed in the sun like glass or quartz. There were claws of the same glassy stuff along the monster's undulating edges. Jen could hear them ring on the rocks. Two small eyes winked open and shut. The thing came fast, with deceptive smoothness, over rocks and trees. It paused and its tail flipped up to send another rock hurtling. The rock showered them with fragments, then Bargo whirled into the open and let go a bullet which detonated very close to the thing. It looped itself aside as if stung, but no wound showed. It came for Bargo now, launching itself in a long soaring leap, landing on the boulers with amazing grace. Bargo was already gone and spinning down the slope toward the others. Bullets and laser beams converged on the goar as it went by in pursuit of the leader. It contorted and bits of its rubbery body flew, but it kept after Bargo. He was far down the hill now, and still going. The thing out after him. IF Jen, mortified that he hadn't even fired a bullet, was out with the others and headed downhill. He lost footing and tumbled wildly in the bag, caught himself and fought for balance. Bargo had turned around a tree-clump and was spinning to the side, while the goar tried to curve its soar tightly enough to catch him. It landed and launched off again, laterally to the slope this time, and Bargo instantly turned uphill. Now at least the goar didn't have altitude on him. Two other bags were downhill now, beyond the goar, having lost control as Jen had. The others were taking pot-shots at the goar, but it was by no means crippled and it was gaining fast on Bargo. Now it was impossible for the others to shoot without endangering the leader. Bargo had made a stand but his laser beams were gone now, the batteries too low. Jen was getting close to the spot. He could skid to a stop, turn and fire, or swerve past the goar to safety. Instead, he hurled the bag straight at the eager snout. The impact was stunning. The bag looped in an arc and bounced off the goar's back. There was some heaving and twisting and flashing sights of the snout, then it was over. He lay in the bag, dazed and bleeding. Bargo appeared and looked at him anxiously, then grinned. The goar still writhed, but its head was blasted and oozing graygreen ichor. Bargo said later that Jen's attack had given him just time enough to put a bullet in the right spot. They made jokes about Jen's being too proud to use bullets or lasers on a goar. Bruises were plentiful, but no bags were punctured and no one had any broken bones. When they rested and refreshed themselves, they began to hack out the goar's snout-blade and some of the claws, using the lasers and the grapples. The stuff did seem to be quartz, deposited somehow or perhaps honed and polished by the beast. They awarded the snout to Jen. Since it was too big to get in through a jettison hatch, the honor meant he had to carry it home clutched in a grapple. E vidently Jen's awkwardness with the hunting bag was not noticed, for Bargo made him a sort of assistant and sent him out with squads of younger men to teach tactics. He did very well. He found he could read a war-problem script once and comprehend it. Not only did he know every tactic and stragem in the manuals, but he invented some of his own. He easily made up his deficiencies in the technical subjects, and thereafter attended advanced math and physics classes with the other mature men. Trav was barracks instructor in these, though of course the teaching machines did most of the actufal lecturing. Four thousand hours passed. Jen was now the second ranking athlete in the barracks. Sometimes, when he was lucky, he even beat Bargo. But when he represented the barracks against others in the hive -- there were currently eight different humanoid species in this hive, each with its own barracks -- there was one individual named Fazzool, a B'lant, whom he could never beat. It was not because of physical differences. The B'lant were about the size and shape of men, hairless, with tough gray skins adapted to some harsh world, but no more muscular than men. However, they came close to being infallible in whatever they'd once learned. In general, they were a little less inventive and a little slower thinking than men, but Fazzool was an exceptional B'lant and there was certainly nothing slow or dull about him. The two of them had some contests that thrilled the hive, but sftWays some minor slip of Jen's gave Fazzool the victory. It was impossible for Jen to resent Fazzool, however much one hated to lose. Fazzool was modest and gracious about his victories. As a matter of fact, they became good friends. A big batch of eighteen-yearolds came in, and all the older men were busy training them. Then one day Jen returned from a trip with a bunch of them to find Bargo in a glum, bitter mood. "That'll be your last trip," the foreman said. Jen looked at him in surprise. "What do you mean?" But the foreman only turned and walked away. Jen sought out Trav. "What's wrong with Bargo? Have I done something wrong?" "Did he snap at you?" "No, but he'd hardly talk to me. And he said -- " "He's always that way when there's a draft." "A draft!" Jen stared at the old man. "You mean I'm going?" "Everyone of eligible age is going. All over the hive." Jen whooped and seized the old man and danced him around. "I'm drafted! I'm going to Space! I'll -- I'll be a warrior, and hunt the Bird of Effogus! I'll -- " When he calmed down he said, "I'm sorry Bargo is taking it the way he is. He'll get along without me; he did before." "It isn't that," Trav said, straightning his tunic and trying to look severe. He met Jen's eyes. "Didn't it ever occur to you what it's like to be passed over?" That sobered Jen. After a minute he said, "I -- no. I didn't think a man like Bargo..." Trav gave him a sardonic smile. "What do you suppose he'd doing here at his age? Did you ever hear of anyone coming back to a hive world?" "Well no. But how could a man like Bargo be passed over?" "I don't know. Any more than I know why I was passed over forty years ago." Ill T he com blared, "Attention. the following men will line up in numerical order immediately at the med booth. Skell, number # # #. Jen, number # # #. Redn, number..." Always before, the man in front of Jen had come back out of the med booth. This time he didn't, and Jen went in a little nervously. The door closed behind him and he IF squeezed his eyes shut against the usual sprays. Blasts of warm air left him itching. A voice said, "What is that bruise on your left thigh?" "I fell in a treadbag, while I was showing novices a maneuver." A metal tentacle came from the wall and put its mouthlike tip against the bruise. There was a tiny needleprick and the voice said, "That'll fix it. Take a deep breath, now." The tentacle came up to listen to his heart. When the pricks and thumpings and mouth-sprays-to-gargle were over, a panel opened in the back of the booth, where he'ci never suspected one, and he stepped through. He was in an unfamiliar corridor. He walked along it to a turn, and saw humanoids ahead of him. Farther on he saw Skell walking. A humanoid stepped from a side-passage just ahead of him and they both stopped, startled. The line gradually filled in, and when it came to a stand there were about two humanoids between him and Skell. Ahead of Skell, a B'lant stepped out of line and came back. Jen recognized Fazzool, "Zo," the leathery humanoid said, falling in beside him. "We draft togezzer! Maybe we big heros and see much sport, and many strange zings." Jen laughed. That pretty much expressed his own feelings. "Maybe I can wrestle the Bird of Effogus," he said, "Even if I can't wrestle with you." The com said, "Quiet in line, please. You'll be moving in a moment. You're about to meet your Overseer." J en had seen members of the Overseer race, but not close up. This one stood on a low platform in a large auditorium and addressed them. He spoke B'lant rather than English, since there were more B'lant present than humans. (All hunanoids had to learn those two languages.) He told them he'd be their commander all through Advanced School, until .they were requisitioned to Fleets or other service and were full-fledged warriors of Gree. He looked almost human, except for the extremely wide-set yes and broad short nose, and he smiled at them in a friendly way. He wore a one-piece coverall with the Symbol of Gree worked onto the left breast. He carried a laser pistol in a holster at his belt. "There' one formality we have to take care of," he told them at the last. "I must mark you with my personal ideograph. It will be your identification and safeguard in case you get lost, until you nave a different commander, when it will be changed. I'll also put your numbers on you now. I don't have to do that here and now, but we have time, and it gives me a chance to know each of you individually." They had to file past him one at a time, while he implanted his mark and their numbers on their hips. It was done invisibly, by a stylus that left tiny magnetic panicles in the skin that could only be read with the proper instrument. It itched for a while. Jen noticed that whenever they were lined up, the men and the B'lant always came first. Also, they got preferential seating. The other humanoids did not seem to mind. As soon as the marking was finished they were fed, then marched to a tunnel-train that bore them on monotonously for two hours. Then they transferred to what could only be a spaceship. J en found his first sight of space disappointing. It was too much like the training films; and of course he'd been in the gray chamber many times so free-fall was no novelty. Most of the others seemed to enjoy it more. Their destination must have been many light-years from the hive world, for they nulled out three times, spacing in twice for corrections any maybe as evasive action in case enemy ship detected them. Then the third time they were within easy telescope range of the Advanced School. It was a collection of spheres and cylinders, some connected by what looked like threads from here, some in slow orbit around the central group. Lights, indistinguishable from stars except by relative motion, crawled here and there. Every globe or cylinder had at least two ports lit up, and some were spangled with lights. The whole thing looked like an elaborate toy. Now, as .first indoctrination in actual space, each draftee had to leave the ship in a spacebag and get himself over to the School. Jen got in the de-pressure chamber and took deep breaths and exercises to speed adjustment. He pulled his suit's limp helmet over his head and sealed it, but didn't inflate. It would inflate when he got in the bag, which would only be at four pounds. The other draftees in the chamber with him all looked scared. The spacebag was of clear plastic no thicker than that of a hunting model treadbag, but this bag was was elongated from hub to hub rather than flattened. Strong cords ran from three points equidistant around the rim of each hub to corresponding points on the other. There was room between the three ropes to position oneself comfortably, but he found that the problem was to avoid pulling on one and deforming the bag when he didn't want to. Tilting the hubs naturally tilted the grav drive and affected his aim. Now at last he was reacting to Space. He had to fight panic for a few seconds as he skewed off course, then overcorrected and got the bag into a very confusing endfor-end tumble. He forced himself to relax and consider the problem. He was in no real trouble; at worst he'd pass within a short distance of the cylinder he had to attain. Ahead of him he could see bags in even worse spins, and one drifting out at a sharp angle. The occupant of that one was curled up in a tight ball, arms wrapped around his head. A light was moving out from the School to make the rescue; but that was one who'd obviously flunked the test. He found he could judge his own drift even though the ship, the station and the stars were wheeling around him. The first thing to do was get his spin around the hub-toIF hub axis. He gave the rotor jets of and worked at his wobble until it one hub a gentle blast. The result, was almost entirely gone; then he as the bag twisted and several spins killed most of the lateral spin and fought, was disturbing, but he waitwent drifting to the cylinder very ed it out and eventually things staneatly. bilized. Now he had a precessing Larger bags, rigid and doublewobble, not too fast to follow if he manned, were darting about resconcentrated hard. He chose what cuing people. Jen passed Redn very he felt were the right side-jets and close, and saw the strain on the touched them lightly. After anothother man's face. A moment later er period of distortion, the bag setone of the heavy bags eased into tied to a lateral spin with a small Redn's path and absorbed some of wobble. He let that go and concenhis momentum. Then they came trated on his course. A few careful over to look at Jen, gave him a pair spurts got his long axis lined up and of grins, and left him. He wanted a little over-corrected, which was very much to hit the net at the cywhat he needed. Now a mild grav linder without any help. He made thrust brought him on course, or small corrections and got some near enough. But he was overtakwobble again, but ignored it. He ing bags ahead. He retroed a little was on course, and got his speed about right. He He hit near the edge of the net was feeling proud of himself now, and it took up the shock. He worked furiously with a grapple and got it hooked around a strand. He relaxed, perspiring. Then he saw another bag coming straight at the net, faster than he had. At the last moment it checked and drifted in neatly with very little wobble. It touched almost the exact center of the net and a grapple caught on casually. Jen felt his face grow warmer as he met Fazzool's grin. T he ship that had brought them stood by for ten hours. At the end of that time it left, taking with it those who'd flunked the transfer plus four others who couldn't seem to adjust to steady weightlessness, despite their previously passing in the grav tanks. There'd be service for them, and maybe even combat, but not in space. Holl was one of them. Now the class settled into a routine of hard work. They were learning not only how to apply in actual Space the physics and math they knew, but aho the maintenance and operation of a staggering array of equipment. All of it was fascinating, though, and most of it came easier to Jen than to some of the others. Skell, who'd been so good up to now, flunked out on blunders, along with a few humanoids. The Overseer was a fiend in his insistence on detail #nd perfection, and sometimes when they got in from a long drill he'd take them to do it over. When they weren't out on those they had to spend long hours at exercise, usually in a cylinder of comparatively small circumference around which they ran as hard as they could to simulate gravity, barked at by instructors, until they were exhausted. Some grumbled, but Jen didn't. He wanted to keep his strength, and also to be able to eat what he liked and digest it afterward. After nearly eight hundred hours, the Overseer decided they'd earned a twenty-hour vacation. A ship whisked them through null to a recreation world, where they staged an orgy that made the .Overseer shake his head and say he'd never quite seen their match for pure debauchery. That was the time Fazzool, by pulling a quick swap in the dark, maneuvered Jen into a rather intimate position with a B'lant woman, and an especially leathery one at that. It was rather a horrible shock, but everyone had a lot of fun out of it and it made Jen a minor legend at the School. Except for the rare vacations, the only days of relaxation were when they had free-fall wrestling or team games of tie-up, in a spherical gymnasium where it was necessary to think and move in three dimensions. The tie-up game was simple, so far as rules went: ten men on each side endeavored to tie up their opponents with short length of rope. An amazing amount of strategy developed, with Jen and Fazzool quickly becoming the two best team leaders in the class. Here, as everywhere, humans and B'lant seemed naturally to lead, other humanoids to follow. When they'd become good at the game, the Overseer made Jen and Fazzool co-leaders of IF a class team and sent them into competition against other classes. They did very well together. T he eight thousand hours of Advanced School were nearly past, and now there was one ultimate test everyone must face. He must find his way home in a spacebag, from where a ship dropped him. It would take him about one hundred hours, and he had no radio and no directions except what he knew of the local stars and what he could learn from a starchart and some instruments. There was alleged to be enough food, water, air and energy to keep him alive and bring him home -- if used just right -- and very little more. Jen watched the ship pull away, then wink into null. The first thing to do, he told himself, was to relax and think about the problem. By exercising just enough to keep his circulation and digestion moving, and eating barely enough to avoid starving, he'd be sure of the food and air. There was a special problem about the air -- he could use some of it for jetting, and thus save battery power from the grav drive. But if he wasted too much compressed air, he'd have to recycle the bag's, and that used energy. One thing he could not afford to do was drift away from the School, or propel himself even a few degrees in the wrong direction. Therefore, he couldn't waste too much time thinking before he located himself. First of all he had to determine the bag's spin very accurately, so he could correct for it. That was simple in theory, but tedious. He fixed the figures in the computer. Next he used the small telescope to find all the variable or multiple stars of any brightness, and compared his list with the star chart. He got no definite clues, but did eliminate some possibilities. He'd have to look for more subtle things. There'd be some hint -- : the angle of a short-orbit binary, or something. Finally the computer nudged up an answer with a probability of better than three to one. Dare he act on that? The one chance in three of being wrong depended on the closeness of his readings, and on mechanical error. He decided to wait a little longer. Two hours later he re-checked, found no change, and made some quick mental calculations. The position he suspected would fit with his being presently about ninety hours from the station, with the acceleration he planned. He stared in the indicated direction. The stars were cold and unfamiliar. If he were wrong, would they find him? There had been losses out of most groups, so they said. Gree was only a mortal after all, and not infallible; and neither "were his Overseers. And even if they rescued him -- he could assure that by just going nowhere -- he did not want to survive and flunk. He had no better information that what the computer offered so far. He made up the programming and used the grav drive. If he wound up with extra air he could always use it for jets later. Once he was committed, though, he worried about his decision. If he used too much battery energy, the extra air wouldn't do him any good. He needed the batteries to keep the bag warm. Barely fifteen hours had passed. # t thirty hours he was sure   he was getting closer to the School, but it looked as if he had enough error to pass it out of telescope range. Now he faced decision again. Pondering it only made his nerves worse, so he calculated as close as he could and made the corrections with compressed air. Then he did his exercises and are, and forced himself to relax; but unwelcome thoughts kept coming. Did Gree really worry about individual slaves? Suppose it were accepted that a certain number should die in training? Many died in combat. And thinking of combat, what if the enemy happened to space in here? Glory was fine, but he didn't want to die meanly in a bag without any weapons. At fifty hours he reached some kind of an emotional crisis and had to face the real question: citner he could keep a grip on himself or he couldn't. Put that way, it was a little easier. He simply mustered all his courage to face the threat. But relaxing was harder than violent action would have been. And now something else was getting out of kilter. At times he could remember the creche and almost all his younger life; then those memories would shift to a different angle so they seemed second-hand as if he'd only watched them in a movie, and some of them would elude him entirely. He endured grimly, clinging to his identity as Jen, who belonged to Gree. But at somewhere around seventy-five hours -- he wasn't paying enough attention to the rime now, nor bothering to eat or exercise -- his skull seemed to get crowded. Hot dizziness swept over him. He heard his voice cry out distantly, "No!" Then the tide rolled over him. IV T here seemed to be a bird in the bag with Steve. It was the size of a condor, or larger, but it had a head and face that were both elfin-like and man-like, and a pair of small but strong-looking hands and arms. "Steve," it said to him m a dry whisper of a voice. "Major Steve Duke. Come up." He shook himself awake. He looked at the creature and said a four-letter word. "How'd you get here?" "I'm not real. Your own mind is conjuring me up. We arranged it that way, but for technical reasons we couldn't tell you." He reached out a hand suddenly, found he could grasp nothing. "Hell! You look real. Solid." "Pull yourself together," the whisper said, "You're in danger. Jen's personality is beginning to waver." Steve scowled. "Good riddance, if you ask me. # feel all right. What now?" "Review. Question-and-answer. IF At least we can make sure your personality stays firm." Steve swore again. "I don't need that childish stuff.  know who I am. "Don't be too sure. You need me, as an exterior personality -- even an artificial one -- to focus on. It's the only way we can keep things in the right relationship. All right now, who are you?" Steve sighed. He'd been over this so often. "Steve Duke. Major, Free Earth Counter Force." "What am ?" Steve grinned. "Bird of Effogus. And you'd better not let me get you on a gun-screen while I'm working for Gree; because let me tell you, I'm a -- " "What is Gree?" "A son of a -- oh, all right. Invader. Tyrant. We're going to settle his hash as soon as I find out for you how to get at him." "I wish we had your confidence of that. Why did we choose you?" "Because I was a dual personality, and you could feed into the submerged one the memories of a captured Gree slave." "You're reciting by rote," the Bird accused. "Do you really feel what you're saying?" "Yes, damn it! I tell you everything is all right!" "It isn't all right," the Bird said, "Jen's beginning to float a little." "He'll make it," Steve said. "He does all right. He fools the Inquisitors. And he's got guts. Or we've got guts; or however it is." Steve realized his attitude toward Jen was ambivalent. On the one hand he felt a little contemptuous; on the other he often found himself rooting for Jen. It was as he thought he might feel toward a kid brother, if he had a kid brother. He said, more conscientiously, "Things are all right. I have all of his impressions and memories. He has none of mine. As long as that's true his environment will tend to correct any drift, won't it?" # #X#"es," the Bird said, "so long I as he doesn't go completely off when he's alone. Now, I detect something ugly squirming around in that cesspool mind of yours. Let's have it up and look at it." "All right," Steve said with a rush that Gree is trying to conquer the galaxy, or a hefty piece of it. What about youl If we help you stop him, maybe you'll just take over yourself. And as long as you want frankness... they say Gree is humanoid, at least. I'd just as soon be a slave to a humanoid as to a God damned bird. Rather." "Thank you. Let's go over it point by point. How long has Gree had Earth?" "Damn you," Steve muttered, "You've sure got me twisted up inside. Arguing with myself... Six hundred years, according to you. All right. You shewed me evidence." "And what was Earth six hundred years ago?" "Occupied the Solar System. About to get to the stars." "What is Earth now?" "A hive planet. A breeding and training pen." "And how were you raised?" ly, "knowing the truth." "Where?" "On a planet you gave us." "Correct. Now, about our being birds." "I suppose I have to believe the evidence," Steve said, "You were humanoid once. You mutated yourself for wings and gave up a lot of your material science. Still, that doesn't..." "Which brings us to a point. How long, according to evidence you'll admit to believing, have we been capable of conquering a hefty piece of the galaxy, as you put it?" maybe." "And we didn't?" "No." "Then doesn't your attitude seem foolish?" "I suppose so." "And now shall I tell you why you have such a suspicion?" "I don't give a fig whether you tell me or not. Whether I tell myself, is what I actually mean." "It's because you're just naturally a sour, disagreeable slob." "You picked me for the job." "Yes. Which brings us back to where we started. You'd better go back under now." Steve concentrated hard on the key phrase, remembering how it sounded in ah Inquisitor booth: "What do Gree's loyal slaves..." J en awoke sobbing. He must have been dreaming of Gree again. He checked the chronometer. Nearly eighty hours gone. He must have slept quite a while; he felt refreshed and a little more serene. He had only to endure now; endure and keep himself fit. The others would be having it just as hard. He took care of his needs and checked course again, as nearly aa he knew it. Hours passed. Finally he thought he saw a fuzzy spot of light that revolved in a small circle around his fore-and-aft axis. He put the scope on it and trembled with excitement. He'd done it! There was only a small correction to make now; and since he didn't want to be in too much below a hundred hours, he retroed a little. There was enough charge in the batteries to keep him warm, and a little compressed air to jet with. He made a good net landing and got through the lock, and got himself out of the bag. He was stiff and lame, and his intestines felt stuffed up. The Overseer hurried to him, beaming, and hustled him through an Inquisitor booth. On the other side, the Overseer told him, "The best performance I've seen in a long time, Jen! A shower now, eh? Then maybe something alcoholic?" "I guess so, sir." Jen's voice was very hoarse. "The others...?" "A very good record. Over half in already, and only two under ninety-five hours, which is passing. The rest should all make it without help except six. They'll flunk, I'm afraid; but that's a low number; and we won't lose one." "Fazzool?" "About an hour away, and in fine shape. When we get you all in and IF doctored up, there'll be vacation. Forty hours this time!" V A fter the vacation -- during which Jen managed to sneak carborundum crystals into Fazzool's bed -- there was a short period of review and examinations. Then one waking-cycle the corns blared, "The following report to Overseer's office at once. Jen, number # # #. Fazzool, number..." The Overseer was already emptying his desk. He told them, "The twenty highest scores in the class are going to a Fleet Base. You will be the only B'lant and the only human in the group, and you'll be jointly in charge until you report in. The other eighteen are being advanced one grade. You are both being advanced two. You will find the assignment inspiring; and if you maintain the same level of diligence, the way is open for you to go high in the service of Gree." He came around fhe desk to shake hands. "I've enjoyed working with you, and with the class in general. I hope my next one will be as good." The trip must have been long, for they made four jumps of it, but finally they spaced in within sight of the Base. This was a breathtakingly thick starfield, but the Base was even more awesome. A long chain of Stations, each bigger than the whole of the School they'd left, swung in distant orbit around a huge red star. Farther in, a swarm of collectordepots soaked up energy and transformed it for beaming out to the Stations. Freighters darted between Stations like bees, or popped out of null with mysterious cargoes from ten thousand exotic worlds. Jen's transport was dropping toward one of the stations, while he and the others crowded before a screen. The station's  image ballooned until it filled the screen, and now Jen saw the fighting ships nursed up to it in perfect ranks, like piglets dwarfed against the belly of a monstrous sow. The transport retroed; a huge port filled the screen. A screeching and shivering of metal, a bell and a green light, and they were sealed on. The draft filed from the transport and lined up before an Inquisitor booth. Other groups, totaling hundreds of draftees, were being processed through. And this was only one Station of the Base! Jen reacted to the key question and sobbed out his answers in the booth, then he was through it, handing his taped orders to an Overseer. "Get your group to med first," he told Jen and Fazzool, "then come back here. You two double-graders -- Jen and Fazzool, is it? -- are assigned to a crew at once." T hey saw no more of their classmates when they'd gone through med. An overseer -- their new commander -- put his ideograph on them after erasing the old one, and took them via shuttle-car across the great cylinder of the Station to the sunward side, where they went aboard his ship. This was only a Scout, with a crew of twenty plus the skipper. Actually, there were two crews; the second one, under another Overseer who was Second-in-command, being off duty now. The duty crew bunked in the Station handy to the ship. Jen and Fazzool had been made familiar with this standard class of Scout at school. She had three sections, squat cylinders coupled endto-end by standard locks, the two outer ones being the only ways in and out of the ship. One was coupled to the Station when she was home, and left open. The middle section was the living quarters, and there they bunked when they were on duty. The two end sections had duplicate powergenerators and fighting equipment, so that either could carry on by itself in a pinch. She had her own mess and was proud of it, and the food was the best Jen had ever eaten. The discipline was not harsh, though no one loafed. Everyone was concerned with keeping the Scout shipshape, and that was it. Jen was disappointed at first that he and Fazzool hadn't gotten a capital ship, but his feeling changed fast. The Scout was his ship now. Still, he loved to sign out a bag during free hours and go outside to look at the big ships. They were five-sectional, each section a vastly wide but flat cylinder, with great missile ports and laser-beam openings into which he could have floated his bag. The ships were so big, in fact, that a standard Scout coupled onto the end lock as a tiny lifeboat There were so many things to do in free time that none of them ever need grow stale. There were furloughs to vacation worlds, space tours to fascinating planets, films, exhibitions, athletic contests. For that matter, the Scout's missions were fascinating. They'd null, and space in, twenty or thirty times per trip; each time hanging dark and with all power damped for a few minutes, listening, since there was always the chance, however Small in the vastness of the galaxy, of stumbling upon the enemy. But if things were quiet they'd take photographs and instrument readings, or perhaps orbit an interesting planet. A few times they actually landed. Once they were so long that at their check-in point they found a drone awaiting them, a standard Scout, unmanned and programmed just to hop here and back. They squirted it a message and it vanished into null to go home and report they were all right. But on the Scout's nineteenth or twentieth mission, one of their hops dumped them right into the midst of a battle. VI A horn bellowed. The Second in command who was in Jen's end of the ship, leaped for his battle-seat and strapped in with his left hand while his right hovered over a button. Crewmen poured from the middle-section lock. When they stopped coming the Second dropped his fist oh the button and the lock slammed shut. IF Screens were asquirm now with green blips -- friendly ships -- and, at the edges, a glob of yellow ones which were the enemy. Short red lines, crawling like worms, were the enemy missiles. They'd obviously gotten a jump on the friendly fleet. Jen and Fazzool were in their seats and strapped down. They had the defensive armament for this end of the ship; small counter-missiles and one laser beam. The screen went blank, then came on again with all the blips shifted, which meant the Scout had nulled out and spaced in again some miles away. That puzzled Jen for a second, then he realized she was locked into Fleet Command and was moving with the other ships. The red worms on the screen wheeled and came on again. It would be fifteen minutes or more until enough energy accumulated to null again. The screen began to blink white with detonations as the interception began. It was impossible to follow as the automatics went to work, missiles and counter-missiles, with their built-in computers and tactical sense, maneuvering at a hundred times human speed. The Scout shuddered and clanged as debris and expanding gases hit her. She lurched hard, twice, and Jen understood she'd been shifted to guard some important ship. A big blip on the main screen, very near the center, would be the one. A circle glowed for an instant around that blip, then was gone. The Command Ship herself! He darted a glance at the Second and saw the Overseer's face taut, his shoulders slightly hunched, as if expecting to be martyred any instant. The rain of debris on the hull was deafening now. Other Scouts were clustered around, their combined automatics intercepting most of what came by, headed for the Command Ship. T hen a heavy salvo, showed on the screen, the big stuff, surrounded by its swarm of protective smaller missiles. The Scout jumped again and the salvo leaped across the screen. She'd been put right in the path! And the salvo was coming fast -- far too fast. Barring miracles, it would sweep aside the Scouts, Jen's included, like so many gnats and go on to atomize the Command Ship. The idea of death pervaded Jen's mind but it was an impersonal thing, unimportant now. If he could just make a hole in that protection around the main enemy salvo. Crack it; dent it; so Gree's missiles could get in! His fingers began to dance over his keyboard. Nearly everything in this end of the Scout went blasting away in a compact group, pitifully small, but for that very reason not likely to attract much attention. He let it go straight on collision course for the hostile salvo. At the right instant he'd maneuver. But soon -- his control would only last until the enemy jamming got strong. Now! He sent his missiles blossoming out like a flower, away from each other as if to attack from many angles. He built up a small concentration in the path of the salvo. But the instants flew so fast, and brain and fingers were so slow. He was aware of Fazzool beside him, letting Jen handle this while he, the B'lant, trove with the laser beam to fight off death from the Scout for just brief seconds, just enough time for Jen to do whatever he was doing. Now! Jen pulled his ludicrously overmatched missiles back into a tight group, shooting in at full acceleration toward the tiny flaw in the defense where missiles had pulled out to meet his feint. The screen blinked with explosions. Then a great blinding flare! He'd gotten something! And there was a hole, if only for a second. Were there friendly missiles close enough to exploit it? But the fight was on top of the Scout now. She bucked and screamed as steel tore into her and great detonations made brief gigantic winds in Space. There was a jar so immense Jen's straps dug into his body until he thought they'd tear him apart. The screens went blind-white, then black. All the lights went out. Then they came on again as circuit-breakers cut back in. The salvo was past, and there was only one more great flaring on the screens, that lasted for many seconds and centered somewhere near the Command Ship. Then it was incredibly still, with only a faint thump now and then of slow-moving debris against the hull. The screens showed a few distant flares as unimportant missiles went off. The enemy fleet had vanished from the screens. Nulled out, probably, and with wisdom, for more of Gree's fleets would be on the way. The Overseer, his face drained and wooden, was unstrapping. He paused and listened as overseer language gobbled from the com. He translated, "A reconnaissance in force, we think. They won't be back." He glanced at the screen, where the big blip, close in, still glowed. The Command Ship's still alive, more or less, and we'll get the credit for that. But I'm afraid our other two sections are dead." He looked at Jen for a few ,moments. I don't like to demand it after the way you've just fought, but someone has to go outside and inspect damage. Two." Jen looked at Fazzool, who grinned. Jen said, "We're both pretty good in bags, sir, and we've worked together a lot." The Second smiled faintly. "I know. I've got enough power to null if we have to, but the field would only extend a few yards; so stay very close to the hull. I think, though, we'll be here a while." J en inflected the bag to a little above ship's pressure, then sealed his suit and raised the suit pressure a fraction of a pound. Fazzool wasn't quite ready, so he propelled himself toward the lock and a humanoid opened it for him. Outside, he got a grapple on a handhold and looked around while he waited for Fazzool. This was a dense starfield, so there was light enough to see even the dark ships and the holes in them. There'd evidently been about twenty capital ships in this fleet, and somewhat more of the enemy. IF The Command Ship only lived the fleet, noting things Jen would nominally; one section out of the have ignored. It was the drones that five. Auxiliaries and bags clustered had brought him to the surface, he around it, at work already making knew -- some planted command to rescues and emergency repairs. surface when he saw a possible way Drones winked in and out of existo Gree. Could he stow away on tence. Those would be carrying one? Not likely; they'd be monibattle reports to Central Command, tored inside as well as out. wherever that might be. A few of The lock opened and he put on them might even be reporting to what he hoped was a natural smile. Gree himself. Wherever he was. They propelled their bags along That last thought made Jen's blood the end and around to the cylindripound. He sent a little cool air into C al side. The middle compartment his helmet, but it didn't help. The was holed in several places and crowded dizziness grew. Alarmed, completely dark. Two crewmen he looked to make sure his grapple should have been on duty there, was tight. Then he blacked out. Fazzool maneuvered his bag to throw a light-beam in and they saw S teve shot a glance at the tellthe two bodies. tale light and saw the lock was They went to the far section, pumping down. Fazzool would be where the skipper had been. It was out in seconds. He stared around at in even worse shape, with great jagged holes. Steve studied one and decided they could get the bags in. He went in first, and aimed his light for Fazzool. It came to him that it would be very easy to shove the B'lant's bag against the jagged steel and rip it. But Fazzool would still be in a suit. And what was the profit just now? There was nobody alive in the section. The skipper had died in his battle-seat. There was no power. Steve wished he were alone. There were some things he'd have loved to give more attention. They checked what they had to and went back outside. At the live end Steve lagged a little and let Fazzool reach the lock first. He wanted a few more minutes outside to look around and think. The drones still came and went. The only way he'd get into one was with clearance from an Overseer. He stiffened. Maybe he could arrange that. He glanced at the tell-tale light. He'd have a few minutes before they began to wonder, inside. He shot back around the hull into the jagged hole. He hesitated, wondering if he could work out of a bag. But the suit would stiffen with the big pressure differential... He propelled over to the dead skipper and wedged his bag between a seat and the bulkhead so his grapple was positioned about right. In some compartment of the skipper's panel would be what he wanted. He got one compartment open. Food. He tore at others, finally found the magnetic marker. He maneuvered it to the bag's jettison lock and inside. He floated, pummeling his mind for a plan. They must be getting worried about him by now. A note to Jen from the Skipper! But there was no time to write it now. He got more compartment open, found a pencil and notepad, got them into the bag. Now if he could arrange for the rest of the Scout to die... He stared at the powr unit. No himself too. A missile? There were still a few left in this end. But how would he set it off, with enough delay to let him get clear? It would be easy enough to position it so it would streak through the middle section and blast the bulkhead beyond. Could he rig some radio control to fire it? Not in less than hours. But there must be a way. All he had to do was set off the driving charge. The skipper's laser gun! H e went back to the corpse, tore at the holster and got the gun, then went for a missile. He didn't take the biggest. No use advertising to the whole fleet; a small penetration would do. There was a hole in the bulkhead he could put it in, but he needed something to jam it in with. A corpse... He 'got one and stuffed it into the hole, pushed the missile in alongside. The gun fit nicely in a pocket of the corpse's suit so it wouldn't float away. He aimed it at the missile's casing, in what he hoped was the right spot, and set it for low power and steady operation. When he IF triggered it the casing began to glow at once. Scared now, he propelled out of the hole and shot away from the Scout. He turned in time to see the masked flare. Vapor and debris puffed out. There were no lights left that he could see. He let out his breath and relaxed for a moment, grinning like an adolescent. Then he took a grip on himself. Not time yet to be feeling so damned clever. He wrote in pencil, trying to imitate the dead skipper's writing, in English, "Jen: you are unconscious as I write, but you are not wounded and you will live if we get you into a bag. The rest of us won't. You are marked with a very important message. Take this note without delay to the Overseer in command of the fleet. Give it to no one else and do not let anyone examine you. These are your orders. Good luck" Then he faked the skipper's ideograph. Now he took the magnetic marker and added more, in the Overseer script. Slaves weren't supposed to know that, but the bird of Effogus had taught him many things. Final' ly he unsealed his suit and prepared to mark the message on himself. He hesitated. Dare he do it this way? It would prove that the suit had been unsealed, and in breathable air, when the message was implanted. He couldn't think of anything better. He put the message on his stomach, describing a new type of enemy missile. If he wrote the script awkwardly, that was as a dying Overseer might write. And if they wanted any confirmation about the enemy missile, the battle had already supplied it. He happened to know that there had been an innovation used. He hoped the information was expendable. He suited up, then jettisoned the pencil, notepad and marker, nudging them with the bag so they'd float away. Now there was one more thing to do before putting himself under and letting Jen carry the ball for a while. He must injure himself slightly, to make things plausible. A bump on the head? Banal; and he'd already used that once. He grinned. Simple enough -- a bloody nose would look like pressure trouble or concussion. He brought the heel of his hand against the front of the helmet, hard. When he tasted blood he exhaled through his nose to spatter the inside of the helmet. Then he relaxed and thought hard about Gree, and asked himself the key question. J en came to with the taste of blood in his mouth and a trickle of it in his nose. He was in a suit and a bag, which agreed with what he remembered last -- starting outside with Fazzool. What had happened? And where had the note come from that was gummed to the hub before his face? He read it. Evidently the other sections of the Scout had not been dead; the note was from the skipper. He turned to peer at the Scout. She looked dead now. Grief welled up in him. Was Fazzool dead then, along with the rest? They'd given Jen this chance to live. Maybe Fazzool himself, with his last strength, had sealed the bag and pushed it into the lock. No matter how badly he felt, he must carry out the skipper's orders. He propelled himself toward the Command ship. He reached for the radio controls, then hesitated. Best not to transmit. Instead, he used the bag's light to signal. As he approached a sentry-globe intercepted him and listened to his story. It called an Overseer who tried hard to convince him that the Fleet Commander was far too busy to listen to second-grader slaves. Jen was humble but persistent. Finally the Overseer took him to the ship's Second, who read the note and phoned the Commander. They were told to take Jen in. It was good to be out of the bag and the suit. They gave him a damp cloth to wipe his face with, and a drink of stimulant, after he told them he didn't need a medico. Then they put him through an Inquisitor booth. The Commander asked, "Did you see this written?" "No, sir." "Come. We'll put it under a marker." They found the invisible writing, then asked him, "Do you know where it's implanted?" He rubbed his middle. "It itches here." When they'd read it, the Commander said, "Do you know what this implant's about?" "No, sir." "What was your battle station?" "Counter-missiles, sir." The Overseer's eyebrows went up. "Did .you plan that little penetration and execute it?" "Yes." The other looked at him for a long time, then said, "I think it will be a good idea to send you along to Central Command, message and all. It's something they'll want to study, and your recollections of the battle will be very helpful." He motioned to an aide to take care of the details. np'he drone they put him in was A a standard Scout, with the living comfort mostly replaced by automatic equipment, but with space for two or three passengers. He was alone. Central Command, which they reached in three hops, looked more like some small outpose on a primitive world. Actually, the Command was in orbiting ships, ready to null out at the first hint of trouble. They sent the drone away and put Jen through an Inquisitor booth which asked him an unusual number of questions. Finally they shuttled him to a different ship and read the message implanted in his skin. An Overseer took charge of him, erased the old ideograph and substituted a new one, and said they'd probably send him back to his Base as soon as a drone could be spared. He also said Jen would doubtless be decorated and advanced another grade for his part in the battle. They gave him a temporary bunk m a barracks with a few other odds and ends of slaves. After he'd had only a few hours sleep they called him back to bis IF new Overseer's office again. As he floated in, a B'lant already rhere turned and grinned at him. Fazzool! Jen gaped, then launched himself forward with a cry. But at that instant the familiar hot dizziness rose up in him... Steve surfaced in panic. He embraced Fazzool, using that to hide his face for a few seconds until he could get control of himself. Then he drew back and said, "You're alive! How...?" Fazzool, grinning like a child, said, "I zot you dead too! When ze final blast come, you still outside, or in ze lock -- " "I -- in the lock, I think," Steve said, trying to make his dismay look like something else. If Fazzool had a clear recollection, his story would damn Steve's -- or Jen's -- like a spotlight. "But you -- but there was the note -- " "I was halfway out ze bag," Fazzool said. "I remember zat. Ze shock stun me When I come to ze ozzers all dead, but my suit not punctured. Zen I go outside to look for you, and when zere no sign I go to big ship for help, because I zpt you drifting even if not dead." The Overseer said, "In a suit, he went. He had no bag." Fazzool grinned. "I am real careful, and it not far enough to freeze zrough my tough skin." "Well," the Overseer said, "you two have had your reunion. And I have a very pleasant piece of news for you. Being the heroes of the battle, and having vital recollections of it, you're going to have an audience with Gree himself." Hphey went in a drone, withA out any way to see out of it, in two hops. Steve managed to skirt around the precarious conversational points. It was very fortunate for him that they hadn't given Fazzool a transcript of Jen's story. But that good luck was only temporary, of course. The Bird came and hovered at the edge of his mind for a minute, whispering, Careful . Keep your head. Easy to say. The drone bumped r fown somewhere and a com said, "Suit up and inflate to seven pounds." By the time the lock opened the drone was down to less than seven pounds, so the suits were mildly rigid. Steve took a few pulls of oxygen so he'd be alert. But they went from the drone into a sealed surface vehicle of some kind and rolled away under low gravity. Tentatively, he decided this was a small, airless planet. Far from any visible installations, probably, and guarded at a distance rather than close in, and with only a few drones visiting it. And probably only one of many to which Gree could retreat, if the slightest threat appeared. They travelled for fifteen minutes or so and coupled on somewhere, and they were let out into a large lock of about the same pressure and told to unsuit. The air was oxygenrich. An Overseer led them silently to an Inquisitor booth. Steve had no choice but to submerge. "Gree is All..." Jen left the booth and stood a moment while the emotion subsided. It didn't all leave. He was so full of joy that his breath kept catching. Fazzool had survived the battle after all, and they were both about to see the Master! And after that there was no imagining the adventures and glories that awaited them. He glanced at the Overseer. The Overseer wore a reverent look too. Fazzool emerged, wiping his eyes, and they followed the Overseer around a turn and into a wide hall with a low ceiling and a single plain door at its other end. The Symbol of Gree, in massive metal, blocked the door. From behind it came six humanoids and an Overseer, walking silently, faces full of glory. Jen's own escort led them forward. The room beyond was dim, but at one end lights glowed upon a tall figure standing on a low platform. Jen could not lift his eyes to it. His feet carried him mechanically upon a thick dark rug. Three chairs stood ready, as if they'd just been placed. But when he reached them, instead of sitting he threw himself down and buried his face in the rug. He felt Fazzool land beside him, sobbing as he was. The quiet sweet music rose a little in volume. The gentle voice he'd known all his life said, "Arise, my children." Then, the Inquisitor was Gree himself! Somehow that made Jen inexpressibly happy, as if loneliness and discontent were impossble forever. A foul thought nudged at his mind: How could Gree be so many places at once? He thrusted it away, ashamed. Gree or booths programmed to ask and to listen like Gree; it did not matter. He pushed himself upright but still hung his head. The voice said, "Be glad. Look at me." Jen's tears stopped and he looked up. G ree was certainly humanoid, if one could elevate the word. He was tall; taller than Jen or Fazzool or the Overseer by perhaps a foot. His shoulders were broad, his build supple and young. But the gray strands in his curly black hair and beard showed his maturity. He wore a suit of dark material which almost certainly had precious metals woven into it. At his throat a jabot of the purest white cloth set off he short-cropped beard and his olive skin. The face was just sufficiently marked with care. The eyebrows pulled down at the middle, but arched up and tilted at the outer ends almost mischievously. The eyes were very long and narrow, with full lashes and long folds of skin at the inner corners. The irises were very light gray and had black vertical slits for pupils that looked into one's soul for the slightest shadow of unworthiness. Jen shuddered and was glad he bore no flaws. The nose, delicate at the bridge, swelled to a very broad base, a trifle uptilted so it showed large nostrils. There was a curl of mustache above the wide, full-lipped mouth. The mouth seemed both stem and faintly smiling at the same time. The skin drew in tautly under sharp cheekbones, to a gaunt jaw that was square and outthrust IP under the beard. On the head, set hair like two tree-trunks, were two horns, straight, an inch thick and five inches long, with blunt knobby ends. They were intricately carved and inset with gems, and they held Jen's eyes in fascination. Gree was frightening. Gree was reassuring. He stirred memories of the creche-father; and other memories vaguer but just as fond. He made Jen want to serve him forever; to rush out and batter down all his enemies. The lips parted. "I have listened to the accounts of the battle you were in, and one of my reasons for bringing you here was to honor your heroism. There is another reason. The Bird of Effogus used some new device or tactic, and we must learn of it at once. So far, your recollection have not been complete." Jen felt a new stir of fear and was ashamed of it. The voice went on, Apparently each of you was unconscious for a time, but in different parts of the ship." Now Jen's fear was like a siren. He felt the hot dizziness again. S teve averted his eyes so any change in them wouldn't show. He knew he was very close to death now, blit fear was thin before a mightier urge which an abstract part of his mind recognized as a planted command. It trembled in every vein and muscle, and seemed almost to shout aloud: "Kill! Kill!" He edged to the right close to th Overseer, as if overcome with emotion; half-turned and put his left hand on the officer's arm. At the same instant he contrived to push a chair against the Overseer's thigh or a diversion. Deftly, he got hia fingers on the Overseer's holster, masking the moment with his own body. He managed to press the release-button without putting pressure against the Overseer's thigh. The gun slipped out easily. The Overseer spoke to him reassuringly, and he nodded and drew clear. Gree was watching with a patient expression. Steve jerked the the gun up and fired straight at the wide eyes. The beam raked ugly raw welts across the face and left a bubbling where the eyes had been. A laser beam shot out from somewhere in the abdomen, but Steve had already leaped behind the Overseer, who took it in the chest. He screamed and sagged, but Steve gave him a squirt in the kidneys to make sure. Then he raked Gree across the middle. The tall form, horrible to look at now, stood unswaying, and Steve knew suddenly that it was not naturally alive. He whirled toward Fazzool. They both stood motionless for one frozen instant while he read the beginning of comprehension, and of other things, in the B'lant's face. He had the gun aimed at that face, but some compulsion made him lower it to the chest instead. He could hear and see the tough skin sizzle where the beam hit. Fazzool jerked double, fell, and lay still. Steve dropped the gun as if it had suddenly grown white-hot, then, furious at himself, picked it up and whirled toward Gree. He was in time to see the big body split to the waist and fall, limply. Where the spine might have been, what looked like a yard of thick metal cable hung in mid-air, contorting. A beam flashed from it, but blindly. Steve raked it until his own gun went dead. It fell to the floor and lay twisting. Doors slammed shut somewhere. If he guessed right, no one, not even Overseers, would be permitted to seethat the Master had fallen. More than likely, there were other Grees. Maybe there was a whole race of the cable-things. He glanced at FazzooFs inert body. Maybe," he snarled unsteadily, "you'll stay dead this time!" A panel was opening at the rear of the room, and the metal thing on the floor writhed toward it. It was trying to escape to somewhere. And that meant a possible avenue for Steve! H e ran for the opening, then stopped suddenly. The cable thing might be insurance of a sort. There might be circuits tuned to it, that would pass it, but not a man. It showed no sign of being aware of him now, nor of anything but its own agony and need to escape. He grabbed the cloth from around the neck of the Gree-body, which moved slowly with some demi-life of its own, and used the cloth to insulate his hand from the cablething. He picked it up. It was more than an inch thick, with a grainy surface, patterned differently at different spots. Could an intelligence be programmed into a length of metal? No doubt. Especially if it were not homogeneous, but differfelt solid. It hung writhing from his hand, like a metal snake, as he plunged into the darkness. The panel closed behind them. He was in what looked like an artificial cave. The only light came from fifty yards away where a Scout was parked. Above it was a gantry-work, apparently to open a door of some kind. He dashed for the Scout and thrust himself into the open lock. The thing in his hand gave off sparks and a. rasping sound, and a smell of ozone, as it scraped against the steel. The lock slammed behind them. They nulled without waiting to get clear of the cave. He grinned. If circuits watched, he'd look like a rescuer. There was no one in the drone to challenge him. And now he had precious minutes, out here in some unmarked wilderness of Space, before they could null again! He shoved himself toward the computers, from which the standard keyboards had been removed. No telling how the cable-thing controlled them. He thumbed fasteners, got the panel off and stared at the circuits inside. The wiring was familiar, and by shorting certain leads he could simulate the pressing of keys. But where would he go? Anywhere but where the Scout was programmed to go! At least he could gain time. U He made the short-circuits that gave him an override on the programming. A set of co-ordinates came into his mind and he acted on them. He was ready minutes before the accumulators had charge enough to null. He waited, half expecting some creature to crawl out of somewhere and ray him down; or the drone itself to come to life. The cable-thing had subsided to a slow undulating. They nulled, and he relaxed a little. He wasn't near any stars. But why had he chosen this spot? No doubt from a command planted in his mind. That turned out to be the case. The com clicked and rattled and said in a familiar whisper, "We're coming in, Major Duke." Two of the Birds he already knew. The other had so much rank even Steve was awed. That one said, looking at the cable-thing, "Do you know what you've got here, Major?" Steve shrugged. "It controlled what passed for Gree. Or one Gree." "It's one of the Invaders. And with what we can read out of it, we can find a lot more. If we can get moving before they realize it's missing." T he war would take a long time still, even though the surprise attacks had gotten many of the cable-things. There were still thousands of die-hard fighting ships, and the Overseer race, and an empire. Steve #as back in the fighting as soon as he got tired of posing around in public. They gave him a Scout group; ships almost as good as the Gree Scouts. formance when it came to the preparations for the re-taking of Earth -- the original Earth -- they wouldn't give him a higher command. He resented that, but didn't brood about it. He was seeing action. And between missions he had all he could eat or drink or wear or take to bed. He wished, though, that they could do something about the other personality. Though they assured him Jen could never surface again unless Steve willed it, Jen was still there somewhere. And sometimes by Keith Laumer j Complete in the next issue of IF -- plus conclusion of Robert Heinlein's great novel, Farn ham's Freehold , and many more storiesl I JF  Short Story He awaited the entrance of his executioner -- and found , instead , himseltl B efore I saw his face, I thought the man was Loyalty Monitor Hartch, my executioner. He had got in while I was looking out the window. Should I call it a life now and jump out, or wait for Hartch to incinerate me? The Loyalty police had a neat, clean way of doing it these days, leaving scarcely an ash. And my blaster was in a desk half way across the room. My usual place of business had seemed the best place to hide. If Smithson had not talked, my presence here was only to be expected; if he had, here was the last place they'd look. Oh, they'd be here -- Monitor Hartch was as thorough as he was corrupt -- but last, not first. Had I been less bemused I'd have heard him coming and pressed the stud in my pocket that would activate the sonic nerve-disruptor. I had rigged the doorway with it against a day like this. A man in my position couldn't be too careful. I was on the manufacturing end of some of the Loyalty Police's gadgets. I don't mean their walky-talkies, but the unspeakable things they carry in their gray gladstones. (The things a man lets himself be sucked into, to disarm suspicion and prove his cooperativeness, while he looks for a place to plant the shiv in the whole system!) But I had the disadvantage of a stern neo-Calvinistic upbringing. That was an anti-survival factor that had already cost us some of the best man of our sect -- one of which I had proved I was not. The man in the mirror just couldn't stomach all this, and he saw to it that I couldn't, either. When things moved too slowly the cooperative way, I had involved myself in a humanitarian, if belated plot to relieve Earth of Our Beloved Leader's services -- and life. Stupid? Of course it was. But one is forced into stupid things from time to time to appease the man in the mirror. Now one of my co-plotters had been picked up. It was a risk we had all taken, but that didn't make things any easier now. Smithson was a good man, but when Interrogation happens it's just a question of time. Even had I sprung my little trap when the man came in, it would have given me only a few minutes' headway -- with no place to head for. Even now I didn't see the man's face because I was starring at his gray gladstone. Executioner Hartch was also an interrogator, then. The bag would contain equipment to extract from me any names and other information that the unlucky Smithson might have missed. I edged closer to the blaster in the drawer as the man spoke. "It's been a long time, Fornay." This would not be Hartch's gambit. And the voice... I looked up -- and the bottom of my stomach dropped out, because he was the man in the mirror! No, not quite. But -- my visitor's face was my face! Y ounger by a decade and more -- but my face. Numbly, I wondered that they would send such a person. I sat down, forgetting the blaster. "It puzzles me," I said cautiously, "that my duplicate should be chosen for this job." It puzzled me, in fact, that there was a duplicate. Humanics was meticulous about such things. But it looked as though Our Beloved Leader's Loyalty Police had taken them and their pattern-files over, too, by now. And O. B. L.'s boys would be less fussy than Humanics about waiting for a man to die before making his andirodduplicate. Yet what purpose could be served now by this? The android himself looked puzzled as his eyes followed mine. Then he let me have it and it hit me like a thunderbolt. "I'm in from Cauldron and I'm going back within the hour. I'm glad I didn't miss you, Ben." Blankly, I looked at him again. Lean and keen and browned in a whiter sun than Sol. And a certain look in his eyes... Yes. I knew now who he was. Worse, I knew why he was here. "You're the pattern I sold to that damned recruiter from Cauldron a long time ago." He nodded. "I wondered if you'd remember. Tell me, Ben, just when did you decide to sell the pattern you made on your twenty-first birthday?" Trouble never comes singly. I wasn't in enough of a spot for my part in the plot against O. B. L. This android had to return now from that godforsaken hellhole fifty lightyears away to collect for his indignities. Before, I'd been about ready to call it quits. This android's presence made everything different, I don't know why. What I wanted now was to knock him flat, then get out of this room -- and farther -- and never have to look at him again. I must have got up. "Sit down, Ben Fornay. Let's talk." His voice packed plenty of authority and he looked well able to enforce his command physically. I sat. "I -- uhs -- sold that pattern five years later, when I was twenty-six." "What'd you use the money for, Ben?" The truth sounded incredible to me even as I spoke it. "To further Our Beloved Leader's career. In a small way, I helped put him where he is." I hadn't known then it would be like this. "Well, they cooked me up ten years after they go f hold of our -- of your pattern. You're forty-five now, Ben, and I'm thirty -- in physical age, that is, if you don't count what Cauldron's done to me. Considering the shortage of ex-Humanics personnel on Cauldron, I guess I was lucky that they got around to me as soon as they did. Did you ever wonder about me?" "Thought you were dead." "Sorry to disappoint you. Ben, do you know what it's like to wake up without warning on a strange planet?"  "I can imagine, uh -- ?" "Martin. John Martin." "Martin, I've had nightmares." "Have you, now?" John Martin's eyes raked the well appointed room. "Changes have been made while I was away. I've been wondering just where you stand in all this. But I know now. You're doing business with the Loyalty Police, right?" F or an instant I had an impulse to tell him the whole story. Not that he could help me, only it curdled me that my other self should think I'd gone along easily after I learned the score. But the sarcasm in his voice cut home. A wave of hatred for him shook me. And yet... and yet... he was me! Can any man really hate himself? "I'd rather hunt with the hounds than run with the hares," I said at last. "I joined them -- Or at least I did business with them." "I've wondered how you were bettering yourself all these years I've been on Cauldron. Let me tell you what it's like out there, Ben. When you first wake up you're in a different room and you wonder why they moved you. Then you notice everything, including your arm, seems heavier and drops faster. After a while the man comes to tell you that you're not Ben Fornay who went into trance fifteen minutes ago. Forney is the name of some other guy fifty light-years away and you're stuck with his past. Only you don't have time to sit down and digest all this because winds are howling outside and there's your share of a ten-thousand-Tiectare paddy and tons of negil sporelings to be planted before noon. "Ben, did you know that the forenoon on Cauldron lasts five months? And the first four and a half of them it rains. In the afternoon you work in a temperature of I I # or up, keepworms from eating or poisoning the negil roots. You've got the little black bugs for company, chomping away on your eyelashes. But nights are when you should be there, Ben. The water worms go, the slime-weed comes, and the fever-midges swarm. Now about these midges. They cover your skin, they bore through your boots, they -- " "I get the picture." I did, too. He'd expect money. "So, Martin, you chucked it all and came back here, and you want me to move over and share the loot." But it wasn't exactly my cash, and I hadn't sequestered it from Hartch's sticky fingers only to hand it over to John Martin. "If you knew how funny -- " "No, I'd rather survive on Cauldron than the way you're doing it here. The other colonists, if you want to call us that, sent me here to buy patterns -- like me and like most of them. I've got them. They're stowed aboard the Star-Trader. Five thousand new colonists, Ben, for the weight of one man. But the main reason I promoted this trip for myself was to settle with you." "If you don't want money, what do you want?" "I guess you could call it revenge." Martin seemed to be weighing his words, as if uncertain how to put what he had to say. A feint, perhaps. I didn't take my  eyes off the android from Cauldron. Y ou see, Cauldron was one of those frontier worlds staked out or two before. It was even more ravenous than most for men. Some day, of course, Cauldron would be a tidy world where women could live, too, and youngsters thrive. At least, that was what the men of Cauldron had in mind. But right now the men of Cauldron had a tiger by the tail that they called a terraforming project. To keep this from blowing out from under them in ten different colors, they had to put Earth's wealth to work where it would do the most good just as fast as they could get their hands on it. The wealth came from their negil crop, which they hand-processed and shipped to Earth. Terrans like Our Beloved Leader and his cohorts prized the vile-tasting green powder for its rejuvenating properties. But the growing and harvesting and processing of the stuff -- plus the terraforming going on at the same time, plus the colonists' own food crops -- required the cooperation of great numbers of men -- on a world not designed with regard to men's tolerances. From what I'd heard, is was a steaming edition of Hades, complete with smell. Upwards of seventy per sent of the new colonists died within months of midge fever or other distempers. But Martin had survived. "I survived. I even adapted. It's a new planet opening up, even if it is hell, and I've done well there. Have my own plantation now in the terraformed sector and I'm testing out a new strain of sporelings..." As Martin talked I'd been edging closer to that blaster. Now I reached for it. #f But he got there first, and rammed it against my belly. "Ben, don't try things like that," he said, almost tiredly. "Your reflexes aren't what they used to be." I tried not to flinch. "You couldn't blast me. It would be like blasting yourself." "Don't count on that too hard. Where would I be now if you'd got there first?" With the blaster he gestured toward the door. "Looks like we'll have to do this the hard way. You're coming with me." "Coming where? My God, you're not going to kill me?" "Out!" Well, that doorway was what I wanted to go through. I went out. But also, my hand cupped the stud in my pocket, and as Martin stepped through I pressed it. Martin collapsed to the floor without a sound. I fled. Halfway down the hall I stopped running and started thinking. There was no place to go, so why hurry? Martin had said he intended to return to Cauldron on the Star-Trader -- today. He'd done right well there in spite of everything. Maybe I'd sent the wrong one of us off-planet. Things could hardly be hotter there than they were here. In an instant my mind was made up. If I stayed on Earth I was a dead man. Worse, I'd betray others. I'd go to Cauldron on Martin's -- that is, on the android's -- ticket. If Hartch didn't catch me first. A journey to a star, we're told, begins with a single step. For me, that step had to be back past where Martin lay on the floor, to the desk where I kept the cash. The cash belonged to our project but any member could use it in an emergency. It had seemed safe from Hartch's cupidity; the man had an almost psychic affinity for other people's money. At least it was safer here than in one of the obvious places like home or under ground. I'd picked up the gladstone on the way past him. Now. I emptied it. All it contained was a change of clothing and a few odds and ends. My conscience, what was left of it, staged a short-lived revolt. What was left of it was still bucking like a bronc on the old tri-dis at things I'd been party to in recent years. You'd think he'd shut up now that I'd landed right here on the bullseye trying to make him happy. I was in no mood for further appeasement. It made it harder, though, that this android and I were closer than identical brothers. Leaving Martin here to Hartch's tender mercies was almost a form of suicide. But I scotched that whole argument quick, as something out of the old fanciful romances inspired by the Humanics idea in its early days. Humanics had made androids only after the original was deceased. And there must be a lot that the Humanics people themselves didn't know, because I shook with unreasoning hatred of this android. I wanted to kill him with my bare hands, and he -- He'd come back from fifty lightyears to settle our score, with only his hands as weapon. IF That straightened me out on everything. I stuffed the cash into the gladstone. Then came the worst part, and I almost didn't make it. The ticket had to be on the android's person... I f you were a Humanics client back in the old days, you simply went every three months or so to their nearest center, for trance. During trance, the biometry people recorded everything about you from your gene pattern to your personality pattern, complete with memories conscious and subconscious, up to moment of trance. Also, a microbiopsy sample of your flesh was reHumanics packed this whole record of yours into a stasis-box the size of a sleeping capsule, and that was that. Unless you died before your time. Then, after complying with certain legal requirements, Humanics took your latest capsule and, using Kuzarian techniques, re-created you, to all intents and purposes. All that was lost -- aside from your personal life and death, that is -- was whatever experience and memory had been added between your latest recording and your death. Immortality, of a sort. The whole transaction about this android had begun some twentyfive years earlier, when I was twenty-six. Legally, a man's patterns belonged to himself. So, when this man from Cauldron made me the offer I promptly claimed a pattern from Humanics that I'd made five years earlier and sold it to him. I'd thought about that transaction now and then. In fact, I'd tried not to think about it, because of the guilty knowledge that that other "I" went to Cauldron to undergo an agonizing death. And yet -- Well, it wasn't only the cash. Or so I told myself at times, especially since my opinion of O.B.L. had soured. In a way, I belonged on the frontier world that I could never hope to buy a ticket for, since such a ticket would cost a not-so-small fortune. There were outlets there for the energies that drove and goaded me and wasted themselves and me, here on my home planets. Sometimes I imagined that other had survived. But even then that sarcastic remnant of conscience wasn't satisfied; it pointed the finger at me for that other ruthless, younger me living on a storm-lashed planet, cursing me and the day he was recreated on that hell-world I'd sold him into -- and that I'd never know. I had my ticket for Couldron -- which was a good thing, because there seemed to be no ticket office as such in the vast underground Spaceport Administration Building. The only concession to the rare and unsolicited interstellar passenger -- who took up a lot more room than valued cargo -- was a small, neglected waiting room whose bare walls half-echoed with my footsteps as I crossed to scan the old-fashioned bulletin board in one comer. The notice prominently displayed there informed: Once aboard, it would take practically an extradition order to get me off again, and it was now #. I felt for the wallet and pulled it out. The trouble was: with it I pulled out the whole picture of the other time I'd set eyes on it, when I'd been ransacking Martin's pockets. I'd glanced in the wallet, seen the big yellow ticket, then as I jammed the wallet into my own pocket I saw that Martin's eyes were open and he was staring at me. His eyes were practically all he'd be able to move for five or six hours, and they annoyed the hell out of me. In the end, I propped him into the chair behind my desk, faced him away, then got out fast with the wallet and the gladstone and the blaster. Now, in the waiting room, I stuffed the wallet back without looking inside -- and found I'd taken a couple of steps back towards the exit. I was reasonably safe -- if I stayed here until I could arrange to board the Star-Trader. Starships as a refuge just didn't figure in anyone's scheme of things. The fares were astronomical and access was by ticket only, even for the crew. It would be hours before Martin could tell Hartch about that ticket. I headed for a chair to light up and pull myself together before any more suicidal impulses toward that exit took hold of me. I'd already done my Stupid Deed for the decade when I joined up with the plotters in the first place, and I sure couldn't afford another stupidity this soon. The old waiting room was oddly quiet. Oh, the building as a whole hummed with purposeful activity and distant voices through distant loudspeaker, but this room was apart. I sat there and pointed out to Martin -- his eyes were still staring at me with that damned helpless hatred, just as though he sat here facing me instead of in that chair five miles away -- that he was someone else, that in any case I owed him nothing. As I say, I understood perfectly the depth of his hatred for me. It didn't surprise me he'd gone to the trouble and expense or returning to Terra to settle my guts -- and would have succeeded, except for the sonic deadfall. And if he didn't, then the Loyalty Police would -- in spades. I tamped out the cigarette, got up and headed for that bulletin board again to find out what I was supposed to do next. There were two more notices: The purser was a gray sort of man who asked no questions. He and his reflection in the mirrored wall weighed the bags, and money changed hands. He asked me for my ticket to punch the transaction out on, and that seemed to be that. I opened the wallet. "I'll record that now, sir, if you'll hand it to me." The purser's voice had a trace of impatience as I conIF tinued staring sickly at what was in my hand, because that was when I first saw the second ticket. John Martin had in that wallet not only his own return ticket to Cauldron, but an extra one, and the extra ticket had my name on it. Martin, then, had not planned to kill me on the spot. In an instant my whole structure of rationalizations toppled -- the ones I'd argued with John Martin's accusing eyes in the waiting room. His eyes now somehow meshed with those that stared at me from the mirrored wall. They made it quite clear that when I walked onto that starship alone, everything between us would be over with. I saw my hand shaking. I got up and headed blindly for the door. "Your bag, sir?" The purser's voice was definitely annoyed. "If you've changed your mind about going, you'll want your bag back." I went back to his desk long enough to check the baggage through -- in Martin's name. Seemed the least I could do for him, though the chances now of either of us ever having a use for that money were slightly less favorable than the prognosis for an ice-cube in hell. Then I left the 'Administration Building and went back after John Martin. W hen I got back the door was still open, but Martin wasn't there. Hartch was sprawled in the chair instead. He whirled and faced me and grinned like a man who's just been paid off on a long-shot. "I played a hunch you might show up here, Fornay." He was a thickset man starting to run to jowls, and his black eyes bored into me. "What made you think I'd come here, Monitor Hartch?" I heard myself ask him. "Fornay, I wonder if you know how close you came to getting away without a trace. When all other clues petered out I took a flyer on your, uh, double, hei'e. I don't know why you did this to him, but I felt in my bones you'd come trotting back for him. I wanted to be on hand to collect when that Calvinistic background of yours paid off in stupidity. And don't try your little deadfall again. I deactivated it." I didn't see Hartch draw his blaster, it was just in his hand. "Our Beloved Leader wants to see you, Fornay." With Martin's absence I felt too numb to resist -- not that resistance was possible. All I said was, "Did you have to incinerate him, Hartch?" A yellow-toothed smile took place on his face. "Incinerate? No. I think Our Beloved Leader will want to reserve that pleasure for himself. With two of you he can have twice the satisfaction." Martin, then, was still alive. My eyes went to the closet door and Hartch nodded. Martin was there, all right, when Hartch slid the door aside, but the close quarters hadn't done him any good. He lay in a crumpled heap, and it took me several seconds to be sure he still breathed. Hartch was fiddling with his walktalky. I said "Wfcit! Let's talk business." Ten minutes later we were back at the Spaceport Administration Building -- Martin (still unconscious), myself and Hartch. Hartch flashed his badge at the purser, who verified for him the sum of the cash in the gladstone. But the bag was by now, of course, aboard the starship. The purser looked less gray and nondescript as he told Hartch that only a written order signed by the person in whose name the valuables were signed through could get them off the Star-Trader. I had signed them through in Martin's name. But this presented no serious difficulty, since as far as the purser knew -- or feigned to know -- I was John Martin. I got Martin aboard and as comfortable as possible before I signed the gladstone over to Hartch. In the minutes remaining before lift-off I made one #-cent coded telephone call -- and got far more than my money's worth... i n hours later, in hyperspace, Martin and I were sitting at the ship's tiny bar. "So that second ticket was what made you come back for me. Propped in that chair I was sure I wouldn't be on the Star-Trader when she left." "Good God, you must've bought that ticket out of your own pocket!" "Saved every credit of my profits since I hit Cauldron to buy that ticket, Ben. A lot of the guys talk about going back. I did it." I poured him another drink. "That extra ticket proved you weren't trying to kill me but to rescue -- " "Ben, I'm going to be honest You should've left me in that closet Rescue, hell! If I'd known you needed rescuing I'd probably have stayed home and farmed the profits back into the plantation. I hated you that much -- or thought I did. Kidnaping was more what I had in mind. Wanted you to find out what you'd let that other self of yours in for. You being so damned safe was what curdled me." "Safe!" "Huh? Oh hell, I'm not sorry I came back -- except that you gave money to Hartch on my account." "And I'm not sorry I went back for you -- not that I had a real choice. We're really the same entity, John. You and I and the man in the mirror. A man can't cut off his own arm, can he?" "Urn." "Don't worry about the money. I had one name that poor Smithson didn't and I made a phone call before we left. Hartch and his funds were, shall I say, adequately met." "Good work," Martin grinned. "When we get to Cauldron I'll have a quarterly share waiting for me. I'd like to put it where it'll do the most good." "I'll help you put it there if -- John. D'you think I can fit in?" "You may wish you'd chosen to stay home and be killed. But if you can live through the first few months and take the work, you've got it made -- friend. We can be a sort of double threat to the status quo." "I'll drink to that -- friend." IP IF  Novelette' Retief could handle aliens . It was his own bosses that he really was worried about!  I R etieT reined in the tall-shouldered urze-beast with a jingle of the hunting-bells attached to the long-legged mount's harness. The trail of the dirosaur led straight ahead into a dense thicket of iron-rod trees, now bent and twisted by the passing of the wounded monster. Far away, the hunting horns of the main party sounded. Retief smiled. Prince Tavilan would employ a choice selection of royal oaths when he learned that a mere diplomat had beaten him to the quarry's turn-at-bay. A windy screech sounded from the depths of the thicket. Retief raised his saddle-horn and blew an answering blast. There was a clanging of branches, a scraping of armored hide on metallic bark. Retief dropped the horn to swing at the pommel. With a pull of a lever he cocked his crossbow, waiting. A tiny head, mostly jaws, armed with a foot-long spike below the mouth, snaked out from the grove, hissing a ferocious warning. Retief's urze-beast stirred and tossed its head at the scent of the dirosaur. Trees shuddered aside as the great carnivore forced its bulk between them, its golden-yellow eyes fixed on the man. A clawed foreleg as big as a man's body, set with rusty scales, raked the ground, dragging the predator's multi-ton bulk into the clear. With a final clangorous flick of its log-like tail, the dirosaur broke free, reared its head into striking position and charged. Retief raised the crossbow and took aim -- The crossbow bucked. Retief spurred aside. He had a momentary glimpse of a two-foot shaft of polished steel protruding from the eye socket of the monster as it blundered past, the long neck falling, to collapse in a cloud of dust, lie twitching, then still. I t was five minutes before the hunt galloped into view, Prince Tavilan's black-crested urze-beast in the lead. He slowed to a canter, rode up beside the fallen dirosaur and sat looking down at the openjawed head, the yellow eyes glazing in death. "That's another barrel of royal vintage I owe you, Retief," he said. "If I ever see the palace cellars again." He was a tall, wide, sandyhaired man with a turned-up, sunburned nose. His leather forest garb was well worn. There were cockleburrs in the snow-tiger facings of his royal Eloran blue cape. The crossbow slung across his back wa his only weapon. "We're wasting time hunting game," a rider at the prince's side said. "There's a plentiful supply of crossbow bolts at the lodge. I propose we ride down into Elora City and distribute them among the good Prime Minister's Greenbacks -- point first." will revise its policy." Tavilan glanced at Retief. "If the tripledamned embargo were lifted, Minister Prouch and his talk of a Regency would evaporate faster than the royal treasury has under his control." "Oh, it's not an Embargo, your Highness," Retief said. "I believe Ambassador Hidebinder refers to it as a unilateral shift in emphasis balance-of-trade-wise to a more grouporiented -- " "What it adds up to is the Royal Eloran Navy grounded, while traitors plot in the palace and Dangredi's pirates raid shipping at the edge of Eloran atmosphere!" Tavilan smacked a fist into his palm. "I've got the finest corps of naval combat commanders in the Eastern' Arm, forty-five battle-ready ships of icy, no fuel! So much for my cooperation with vour Ambassador, Retief!" "Didn't he explain that, Your Highness? If you had the Big Picture, it would all make sense. Of course, I'm a Small Picture man myself, so I'm afraid I can't be of much help in explaining it." "It's not your doing, Retief. But IF have a dictatorship clamped on them because I lack a few megaton seconds of firepower." "Your great grandfather's mistake was in being a romantic. If he'd named his planet Drab Conformity, set up a committee of bureaucrats to run it and used the forest to supply paper mills instead of hunting in them, you'd be the apple of the "The old man led a hard life. When he found Elora it was a wilderness. He made his fortune and then arranged matters here to suit himself -- and we Elorans still like parties!" Retief glanced at the sun. "Speaking of which, I'd better be starting back. The Grande Balle d'Elore is tonight and Mr. Magnan will be upset if I'm not there to help him hover nervously for at least an hour before the Ambassador comes down." "Retief, you're not riding back to the city?" Count Arrol looked up from cutting out the dirosaur's chinhorn. He stood. "I told you what my man reported. Your sympathies are too well known to suit Prouch. Tonight, at the ball -- " "I don't think the worthy Prime Minister will go that far. He's dependent on the good will of the bad publicity." "The Palace Guard is still loyal," Tavilan said. "And remember the lad, Aric. You can trust him with any mission within his strength. He's working in the palace as a mess servant." He laughed bitterly. "Think of us as you dance with the fair ladies of the court, Retief. If you see my father, tell him I and my Invincibles will continue to skulk here in the Deep Forest as he commands -- but we long for action." "I'll get word to you, Tavilan," Retief said. "My conspiratorial instinct tells me that there'll be action enough for everybody before sunrise tomorrow." II I n the Grand Ballroom at the Palace of Elora, Retief cast an eye over the chattering elite of the court, the gorgeously gowned and uniformed couples, the glum representatives of the People's Party, the gaudily dressed diplomats from Yill, Fust, Flamme and half a hundred other worlds. A cluster of spiderlean Groaci whispered together near a potted man-eating plant, one leaf of which quivered tentively, seemed to sniff the aliens and withdrew hastily. Retief plucked a glass from a wide silver tray offered by a bright-eyed mess boy in a brocaded bolero jacket and a cloth-of-gold turban, who glanced quickly around the crowded ballroom, then stepped close to whisper: "Mr. Retief -- the rascals are forcing the lock on your room!" Retief passed the glass under his nose and sipped. "Exactly which rascals do you mean, Aric?" he murmured. "We've got about four sets to choose from." Aric grinned. "A couple of the Groaci Ambassador's boys," he whispered. "The ones he usually uses for high-class back-alley work." Retief nodded. "That would be Yilith and Sith, formerly of the IF Groaci Secret Police. Things must be coming to a head. It's not like old Lhiss to take such direct action." He finished the drink and put the empty glass on a black marble table. "Come on, Aric. Ditch that tray and let's take a walk." In the broad, mirror-hung corridor, Retief turned to the right. "But, Mr. Retief," Aric said. "Your apartment's in the other direction." "They won't find anything there, Aric -- and it would be embarrassing for all concerned if I caught them red-handed. So while they're occupied, I'll just take this opportunity to search their rooms." A t the top of the wide spiral staircase that led from the public areas of the palace to the living quarters assigned to foreign diplomatic missions, Retief paused. "You wait here, Aric." He went along the corridor to the third door, a simple white-painted panel edged with a tiny carved floral design. He tried the large gold doorknob, then took a slender instrument from an inner pocket of his silver-epauletted tangerine mess jacket and delicately probed the lock. The bolt snicked back. l#e eased the door open, glanced around, then stepped back out and beckoned Aric to him. "How'd you get it open, Mr. Relief?" "Locks are a hobby of mine. Patrol the corridor, and if you see anybody, cough. If it's one of my Groaci colleagues, have a regular paroxysm. I won't be long." Inside the room, Retief made a fast check of the desk, the dresser drawers, the undersides of furniture. He slapped sofa cushions, prodded mattresses for tell-tale cracklings, then opened the closet door. Through the wall, faint voices were audible, scratchy with the quality of narrow-range amplification. He stooped and plucked a tiny earphone from a miniature wall bracket. AmbassadorLhiss, it appeared, was not immune from eavesdropping by his own staff... Retief put the phone to his ear. "... agreed, then," Ambassador Hi debinder's voice was saying. "Seventy-two hours from now, and not a moment before." "Just see that you keep your end of the bargain," a thin Groaci voice lisped. "This would be a poor time for treachery." "I want it clearly understood that our man will be treated in a reasonably civilized fashion, and quietly released to us when the affair is completed." "I suggest you avoid over-complicating the arrangements with lastminute conditions," the Groaci voice said. "You've done very well in this affair," Hidebinder came back. "Your profits on the armaments alone -- " "As I recall, it was you who proposed the scheme. It is you who wish to place homeless Soetti rabble on Elora, not we." Retief listened for another five minutes before he snapped the phone back in its bracket, stepped quickly to the door. In the hall, Aric came to meet him. "Find anything, Mr. Retief?" "Too much." Retief took a pen from his pocket and jotted a note. "See that this gets to Prince Tavilan at the lodge. Tell him to get the Invincibles ready, but to do nothing until I get word to him -- no matter what." "Sure, Mr. Retief, but -- " "Let's go, Aric. And remember: you're more help to me outside than inside." "I don't follow you, Mr. Retief." Aric trotted at his side. "Outside what?" "We'll know in a few minutes. But wherever I wind up, watch for a signal." From the head of the Grand staircase Retief saw the glint of light on steel. Two men in the dull black and green of the People's Volunteers stood in the corridor. "Hey, Mr. Retief," Aric whispered. "What are Greenbacks doing in the palace?" "Simple, Aric. They're standing guard over my door." "Maybe somebody caught those Groaci trying to break in." "Drop back behind me, Aric -- and remember what I said." R etief walked up to his door, took out an old-fashioned mechanical key and inserted it in the lock. One of the two armed soldiers stepped up and made a threatening motion with his rifle butt. "Nobody goes in there, you," he growled. He was a broad-faced blond, a descendant of the transported felons who had served as contract labor on Elora a century earlier. Retief turned casually, moved to one side far enough that the man before him was between him and his companion, then moved suddenly. He caught the stock of the rifle in his left hand and with his right yanked the barrel forward; the butt described a short arc, smashed against the soldier's chin. He gave a choked yell and stumbled back. Retief jerked the door open, slipped inside, slammed it behind him. He shot the bolt, then started a fast check of his room. The door rattled; heavy poundings sounded. Retief pulled open the desk. A loose heap of unfamiliar papers lay there. A glance at one showed the letterhead of the Office of the Commercial Attache, Terrestrial Embassy. It appeared to be a delivery order for one hundred thousand rounds of fractionalton ammunition made out to a Bogan armaments exporter. Another was an unsigned letter referring to drop-points and large sums of money. A heavy parchment caught Retiefs eye. It was stamped in red: Below the seal of the Eloryan Imperial Department of War was a detailed breakout of the disposition of units of the Imperial Fleet and the Volunteer Reserve. The telephone buzzed. Retief picked it up. There was a sound of breathing at the other end. "Yilith?" a faint voice inquired. "No, you damned fool!" Retief snapped. "They finished up ten minutes ago. When do the Greenbacks arrive?" "Why, they should be there now. The pigeon has left the ballroom -- " IF There was a pause. "Who is this?" Retief slammed down the phone, whirled to the wide fireplace, flipped the switch that started a cheery blaze licking over the pseudo-logs. He grabbed up a handfull of papers from the desk, tossed them into the fire, started back for another -- With a rending of tough plastic panels, the door bulged, then slammed open. Hall a dozen Greenbacks charged into the room, short bayonets fixed and leveled. Retief's hand went behind him, felt over the small table at his back, plucked open the drawer, fished out a tiny slug gun and dropped it into a back pocket. A tall man with small head, a body like a bag of water, and tiny feet bellied his way through the armed men. He wore a drab cutaway of grayish-green adorned with the star of the Order of Farm Production. Behind him, the small, spindle-armed figure of the Groaci Military Attache was visible, decked out in formal jewel-studded eyeshields and a pink and green hipcloak. "Don't touch anything!" the water-bag man called in a high, excited voice. "I want everything undisturbed!" "What about the fire, Mr. Minister?" the Groaci lisped. "The miscreant seems to have been burning something." "Yes, yes. Rake those papers out of there!" The large man wobbled his chins agitatedly. He fixed Retief with eyes like peeled eggs. "I'm warning you, don't move." ' "Let me have a crack at him," a Greenback said. "He fixed Horney so he won't be able to eat nothing but mush for six months." "None of that!" The big-bellied man held up a hand. A striped vest bulged under his voluminous frock coat like a feather mattress. "We'll just hold him for the authorities." "Any particular reason why you and your friends came to ' play in my room?" Retief enquired mildly. "Or were you under the impression it was my birthday?" "Look here," a man called from across the room. "Under the mattress!" He held up a paper. "A letter from the pirate, Dangredi, addressed to Retief, thanking him for the latest consignment of arms and supplies!" "If you'll wait just a minute," Retief said, "I'll get my scrapbook. It's full of all kinds of incriminating evidence I've been saving for just this occasion." "Ah, then you confess! Where is it?" the Groaci whispered hoarsely, pushing to the fore. "Oh, I forgot. When I heard you coming, I ate it." T here was a stir at the rear of the group. The ranks parted and a short, round Terrestrial with a stiff white mustache and a mouth like a change-purse pushed through. He yanked at the overlapping lapels of a grape-juice colored mess-jacket caked with decorations. "Here, what's this Mr. Retief! Contraband? Pilfered documents? Evidence of traffic with piratical elements?" "No, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "I'm only charging them with breaking and entering, assault with a deadly weapon, abuse of diplomatic privilege and loitering. If you'll -- " "Here, don't let him confuse the issue, Ambassador Hidebinder!" The egglike eyes rolled toward the stout diplomat. "He stands self-convicted." "Don't say too much, Mr. Minister," Retief cut in. "After all, you haven't had time yet to read those scraps the boys are fishing out of the fire, so it wouldn't do for you to know what they are." "Enough of this pointless chatter!" Prime Minister Prouch piped. "Obviously, there's treason afoot here!" He jabbed a finger at the Terrestrial Ambassador. "In view of the seriousness of the offense -- in a time of grave crisis in inter-world affairs -- I demand that you suspend this criminal's diplomatic immunity!" The Groaci spoke up: "As a neutral party, I propose that he be turned over to my mission for restraint until the time of trial." "Well..." Ambassador Hidebindcr blinked. "I'm not at all sure..." "We'll tolerate no stalling tactics!" The Minister squeaked. "The security of Elora is at stake!" He motioned. The troops closed in around Retief. "I propose to take this man into custody at once." He bulged his eyes at Hidebinder. "I trust there will be no protest!" Hidebinder looked around at the room, the scattered papers, the smouldering fire, then at Retief. "Your penchant for mischief is well-known, Mr. Retief," he said acidly. "I'm sure this fits the pattern nicely." "Not as nicely as you imagine," Retief said. "Maybe you'd better think it over -- without any help from Ambassador Lhiss." Hidebinder purpled and sputtered. "The man's run amok! You have my permission to place him under protective restraint!" He stamped from the room. General Hish stepped forward. "Soldiers you heard the order of the Minister," he hissed. "Take the criminal away!" Ill T he cell was ten feet square, with a twelve by eighteen inch opening just under the ten-foot high ceiling. The furnishings included a plastic cot with one blanket, the minimum in plumbing facilities, one small, unshielded neon lamp, numerous large roaches and a bristly rat over a foot long, which sat by the floor drain from which it had emerged, regarding Retief with beady eyes. RetiePs hand went slowly to the small, hard pillow on the cot beside him. He picked it up, pegged it suddenly. With a squeal of rage, the rat dove for the rusted-out drain cover, scrabbled for a moment in a frantic attempt to squirm past the cushion, now wedged in the drain; then it darted for the darkest corner of the cell. Retief picked up the blanket and a length of yarn worked from it earlier, moved toward the rat. It IF crouched, making a sound like a Retief looped rusty bedspring. Suddenly it leaped over his fing( straight at Retief s face -- and met In the gloon the enveloping blanket in midair. lamp, the Cautiously, Retief folded back against the d the blanket to expose the chinless, the bunk am snouted face, armed with backslanting yellow fangs half an inch , long, He looped the string over the  Ur vicious head, and knotted it... rectang He went to the drain, kicked the through tl obstruction from it, then released . e e j the tethered rt. It dived down the intervals, ree. dark opening and was gone. ?fge outside The carefully coiled string paid Suddenly the out rapidly, loop after loop. It twitched, one slowed, then fed down the drain gave thr  more slowly as the rat traveled a mor nent tn through the piping. The guard's  n t " ere w footsteps approached.  nc was on Retief jumped for the cot; he was Retief pull stretched out at ease when the sendragged hea try looked in. When he had passed, slowly, hand Retief looped the end of the string over his finger, pulled in the slack. In the gloomy light of the neon lamp, the thread was invisible against the dark floor. He sat on the bunk and waited. A n hour passed. The barred rectangle of moonlight slanting through the window crept across the floor. Regularly, at nine-minute intervals, feet sounded in the passage outside the metal slab door. Suddenly the string in Retief 's hand twitched, once, twice, three times. He gave three answering tugs. For a moment there was no response; then there was a single firm tug. Aric was on the job... Retief pulled at the string. It dragged heavily. He hauled it in slowly, hand over hand. Twice it caught on some obstruction far away in the drain line; he tugged gently until it came free. He thrust the accumulating pile of thread under the mattress. Each time the guard looked in, he was sitting quietly, staring at the wall. Suddenly, the end of a half-inch rope appeared, securely tied to the end of the string. Retief let it slip back a few inches, waited until the sentry passed, then quickly began hauling in the rope. Five minutes later, a hundred feet of polyon cable were tucked out of sight under the mattress. Retief slipped the bundle of hacksaw blades which had been tied to the end of the rope into the pocket of the gold-braided white trousers which he had been allowed to retain along with his short boots. He stood under the window, gauged the distance, then jumped. He pulled himself up, got a firm grip on the bars, then too-; out a saw and started in. An hour later, both bars were cut through, ready to be removed by a single firm twist. Retief waited for the guard to pass, then dropped the blades down the drain, looped the cable over his shoulder and leaped up to the window again. Far below, he could see the moonlight sparkling on a fountain in the palace garden; the shadows of trees and hedges were dark against the grass. On the graveled walks, armed sentries paced. Retief wrenched the bars free, tied the rope to one, tossed the coil of rope through the window, then pulled himself up, carefully fitting the short bar across the comer of the window-opening on the inside. Keeping pressure on the rope, he eased out, then slid quickly down. T wenty feet below. Retief dropped onto a narrow balcony before a rank of darkened glass doors. With a flick, he freed the upper end of the rope. The bar clattered against the stone wall as it fell. He pulled the rope in, dropped it in a heap, then tried door handles until he found one that turned. He stepped in through heavy drapes, felt his way across to the door, opened it and looked out into a wide corridor. At the far end, two ornately uniformed Palace Guards stood stiffly at attention. There was no one else in sight. Retief slipped the slug gun into the palm of his hand, stepped out, walked boldly toward the guards. They stood unmoving. As he passed, one spoke quietly from the corner of his mouth: "Greenbacks patrolling one flight up." "They're on the lookout for any suspicious activity," the other sentry added. "If I see any, I'll let you know," Retief said softly. "If you hear any loud noises, pay no attention. General Hish will be entertaining a guest." Retief followed the corridor, took a turn to the left, then a right, found the passage housing the Groaci Embassy, now brightly lit. The apartment of the military attache was on the left, four doors along. A black-booted Greenback officer stepped into view from the far IF end of the passage, paused at sight of Retief striding unconcernedly toward him. The Greenback narrowed his eyes uncertainly, then snapped back the flap covering his sidearm, tugged at the heavy power pistol. Retief brought the slug gun up, fired at pointblank range. At the mufffed whoompl the officer slammed back, hit the floor and lay sprawled. His gun bounced against the wall. Relief scooped it up, turned to the door of the Groaci General's quarters, needle-beamed the lock at low power. The hardware dissolved in a wash of blue flame, an acrid stink of burned plastic and metal. He kicked the door wide, turned and caught the fallen Greenback by the ankles and dragged him inside. A swift examination of the room revealed that it was deserted. Retief picked up the phone and dialed. "Post number twenty-nine," a crisp voice answered promptly. "This is the General's guest," Retief said. "The light in the hall might hurt the General's eyes. Think you could douse it?" "We've had some trouble with fuses in that wing lately. I've got a feeling one might go out any minute now -- and' it will take maybe an hour to fix." The phone clicked off. Retief flipped off the lights in the room, went into the small, lavishly equipped kitchen, rummaged through the supplies of Groaci delicacies, found a one-pound jar of caviar and a package of grain wafers. He ate hurriedly, keeping an eye on the door, drank a small bottle of Green Yill wine, then returned to the living room. He stripped the Greenback and donned the drab uniform. The phone buzzed. Retief lifted the receiver. "Two minute alert," a low voice said. "He's alone." Retief went to the door, opened it half an inch, stood in the shadows beside it. He heard the go'ft approach of mincing Groaci footsteps, then a soft exclamation -- He swung the door open, reached out, caught the Groaci by the throat and dragged him inside. He grunted as a booted foot caught him in the ribs; then he jammed the pistol hard against the Groaci's horny thorax. "No loud noises, please, General. I have a splitting headache." Retief pushed the door shut with a foot and leaned against the light button. A soft glow sprang up. Retief released the Groaci, holding the gun aimed at a three-inch broad Grand Cordon of the Legion d'Cosme crossing the bulging abdomen. "I'm going out; you're coming with me. Better hope we make it." He holstered the pistol, showed the small, smooth-stone-shaped slug gun. "This will be a foot from your back, so be a good little soldier and give all the right answers." The Groacie's throat sacs dilated, vibrating. He cast a sidelong glance at the stripped body of the Greenback. "The swift inevitability of your death," he hissed in Groaci. "To anticipate with joy your end in frightful torment..." "To button your mandible and march," Retief interrupted. He pulled the door open. "After you." T he blaze of stars scattered from horizon to horizon above the palace roof. Their light gleamed on the polished fittings of a lowslung heli parked on the royal pad, as Retief and his prisoner emerged from the service stair into the cold night air. There was a scrunch of boots on gravel, the snick! of a powergun's action. Abruptly a searchlight's beam glared. "Hey -- aren't you -- " "Do not interfere, soft-faced idiot!" the Groaci hissed. The light flashed across to him; his five beady, stemmed eyes glinted angrily at the guard. "General Hish, sir." The guard snapped off the light, presented arms hurriedly. Other boots sounded. coming across the roof-top. "What's going on here? Tell these -- " the voice broke off. In the gloom, barely relieved by starlight, Retief saw the newcomer start, then put a hand to his pistol butt. "We require the use of the royal gig," Hish whispered. "Stand aside!" "But the orders -- " the first guard started. "General, drop!" the second bawled, hauling his gun out. Retief shot him, took a short step and drove a hard punch to the jaw of the first Greenback, still standing, gaping, then caught the Groaci's arm, jumped for the heli. Yells sounded across the roof. A yardwide. light-cannon, gymbal-mounted atop the guard shack, winked on, throwing a gray-blue tunnel of light into the sky; it pivoted, depressed, swept a burning disc across to Retief -- He drew the power pistol, thumbed it to narrow beam and blasted the light. It exploded in a shower of tinkling glass, a billow of orange smoke that faded, winked out. Retief shoved the slender Groaci ahead of him, yanked wide the heli's entry hatch, tumbled his prisoner in and jumped after him. He rammed power, the finely engineered craft leaped from the roof, surged upward in a buffet of suddenly stirred air. From below, blue and yellow flashes winked briefly against the discs of the screaming rotors; then they dwindled away and were gone. IV H alf an hour later, Retief dropped the heli in low over the black tree-tops of the Deep Forest. A gleam of light reflected across rippling water. He edged the machine forward and swung out over the lake, dropping down to tree-top level. Below, the water churned in the down-draft from the rotors as the heli settled gently into two feet of water. Retief cut the engine and popped the hatch. Cold mountain air swirled in. Somewhere, water lizards shrilled. "What place of infamy is this? the captive General hissed. He stared out into the darkness. "Do you bring me here to slay me unseen, vile disrespecter of diplomatic privilege?" "The idea has merit," Retief said, "but I have other plans for you. General." He climbed down, moIF tioning the Groaci out. Hish grumbled, scrambling down into the icy water of the lake, slogging to shore. From the darkness a night-fowl called. Retief whistled a reply. There was the sound of a footstep in the brush, the click ! of a crossbow's cocking mechanism. "It's Retief," he called. "I have a guest: General Hish, of the Groaci Embassy." "Ah, welcome, Retief," a soft voice drawled. "We're honored, General. Good of you to call. His Highness was hoping you'd be along soon..." I nside the high-beamed lodge, Prince Tavilan came across the room. Behind him, Aric grinned. "I caught the rat all right, Mr. Retief." "Retief!" Tavilan clapped him on the shoulder. "Aric reached me with your message an hour ago. I heard the news of your arrest on Tri-D. They broke into a concert to announce that a plot involving the ments had been uncovered." "Hidebinder will be very unhappy with that version of events," Retief said. "The agreement was that it was all to be blamed on a rotten apple in the Corps barrel. Namely  me. "We were saddling up to storm the Palace and free you, when your message reached me -- " "How many reliable men do you have available on short notice, Your Highness?" Retief cut in. "I have thirty-eight of the Invincibles with me here. At least three others are under arrest on various pretext. Four more managed to report in that they're pinned down by 'protective escorts'. Retief shook his head. That was the idea of arresting me, Your Highness -- as a personal affront to you, since my sympathies are well known. Prouch wanted to bring you out into the open. An armed attack was just what he needed -- and he was ready for you. He has .at least two hundred Greenbacks in the Palace, armed to the nines. Your raid would have been the signal of his take-over -- to preserve the domestic tranquility, of course -- and your death in the fighting would have left him a clear field." "What about the Palace Guard? They haven't gone over?" "Of course not." Retief accepted a cigar, took a seat by the fire. "They're standing fast, playing it by ear. The Grand Ball tonight gave them an excuse for full dress, including weapons, of course. The Greenbacks aren't quite ready to start anything with them -- yet." T avilan stamped across the firebeast-hide rug. "Blast it, Retief we can't sit here and watch Prouch and his mob move in unopposed! If we hit them now -- before they've had time to consolidate -- " " -- you'll get every Royalist supporter in Elora City killed," Retief finished for him. Now, let's consider the situation. Item: the Royal policy. Item two: Prouch's people's Volunteer Naval Reserve Detachment of late-model Bogan destroyers is sitting in its launch-cradles at Gray Valley, fifteen miles away." "They're no threat to us; they can't operate without fuel either." "They won't have to," Retief said, puffing out smoke. "Corps policy is nothing if not elastic. It seems that the Big Picture called for the supplying of the Volunteer Reserve with full magazines -- " "What!" " -- and the topping off of all tanks." Tavilan's ruddy face paled. "I see," he said quietly, nodding. "The while it was arming Prouch's revolutionaries. It never intended to see the monarchy survive." a very clean-minded organization, and it heard somewhere that 'monarchy' was a dirty word." "All right!" Prince Tavilan turned to Count Arrol. "We have mounts for every man -- and plenty of crossbow bolts. There'll be Greenback blood on the palace floors before the night is out." "If I might make a suggestion...?" "You're not involved in this, Retief. Take the copter and get clear." "Clear to where? I've been disowned by my colleagues and slapped in jail by the Prime Minister. To get back to the subject: I see no point in our riding into Elora City and being shot down at long range by Greenbacks." "We'll ride in at the Marivale Gate; move up through -- " "If you'll pardon my saying so," Retief said, "I've got a better idea. It's only fifteen miles to the Gray Valley." "So?" "So I suggest we take a ride over there and look at the Volunteer Navy." "You've just told me Prouch's renegades are armed to the teeth!" Retief nodded. "Since we need guns, Your Highness, I can't think of a closer place to get 'em." A t the head of the troop of thirty-eight riders, including General Hish, lashed to a mount, Retief and Tavilan reined in at the crest of the slope that faced the barracks of the Peoples Volunteer Naval Reserve, a blaze of light all across the narrow valley. On the ramp a quarter of a mile beyond the administrative and shop areas, ten slim destroyers loomed, bathed in the glare of poly-arcs. Prince Tavilan whistled. have struck it off even better than I thought. That's all brand-new equipment." "Just defensive, of course," Retief said. "I believe Minister Prouch has given assurances that the elimination of Dangredi's freebooters will be carried out with dispatch -- his regime." Tavilan laughed shortly. "I could have swept Dangredi off the space hadn't blockaded me." "Such are the vagaries of Galactic policy." "I know, the Big Picture again." Tavilan turned to Arrol. "We'll split into two parties, work around both ends of the valley, and pick our target at close range. Retief, you ride with me. Let's move out" IF It was a forty-minute ride along of the next ships in line, sentries, the forested slopes walling the valstand-by riot squads, and those two ley to the rendevous point Prince pillboxes commanding the ends of Tavilan had designated, a sheltered the valley." ravine less than a hundred yards "Still -- I must give those men from the nearest of the parked war their chance t# dec , are themS elves." vessels. The access ladder was  As the Prince wishes . But ru down, and light spilled from the keep my blaster loose in its holster open entry port. A Reservist m j ust j n case  baggy gray and green lounged in the opening. Two more stood below, power rifles slung across their backs. "You could pick those three off from here," Retief remarked. "Crossbows are a nice quiet weapon. T he Prince rode in the lead with his guidon at his left, followed by thirty-five men, formed up in a precise triangle of seven ranks, with two formal honor guards out on the flanks. The rearTavilan shook his head. "We'll ride down in formal battle order. No war's been declared. They won't fire on the Prince Royal." "There may be forty more inside -- to say nothing of the crews guard followed, holding the reins of the mount to which General Hish, .still hissing bitter complaints, was lashed. The Invincibles moved down the slope and out onto the broad tarmac, hooves clattering aua ist the paved surface. The two men on the ramp turned and stood gaping. The one above at the ship's entry port whirled, disappeared inside. The troop rode on; they were halfway to the ship now. One of the waiting Greenbacks unlimbered his power gun, cranked the action; the other followed suit. Both stepped forward half a dozen paces, brought their weapons up uncertainly. "Halt! Who the hell's there?" one bawled. Tavilan flipped the corner of his hunting cape forward over his shoulder to show the royal Eloran device and came on in silence. The taller of the two Greenbacks raised his rifle, . hesitated, half-lowered it. Riding half a pace behind Tavilan, Retief eased his pistol from its holster, watching the doorway above. On his right, Count Arrol held his crossbow across his knee, a bolt cocked in the carriage, his finger on the trigger. Ten feet from the two Greenback sentries, Prince Tavilan reined in. "Aren't you men accustomed to render a proper salute when your commander makes a surprise inspection?" he asked mildly. The Greenbacks looked at each other, fingering their guns. "It looks as though the word has gone out," Arrol whispered to Retief. At that moment a figure eased into view at the port; light glinted from the front sight of a power gun as it came up, steadied -- Retief sighted and fired. In the instantaneous blue glare, the man at the port whirled and fell outward. The Greenback nearest Tavilan made a sudden move to swing his gun on the Prince -- then stumbled back, a steel quarrel from Arrol's crossbow standing in his chest. The second Greenback dropped his weapon, stood with raised hands, his mouth open and eyes wide; then he turned and ran. Tavilan leaped down from his steed, dashed for the access ladder, his crossbow ready. "Everybody in," Arrol called. The men sprang up in good order; those waiting on the ramp faced outward, covering all points. From the adjacent vessel, a sharp report echoed. A man fell from the ladder; others caught him, lifted him up. Far away, a harsh voice bellowed orders. "They can't use any heavy stuff," Arrol said. "They wouldn't want to nick the paint on their new battlewagon." A squad of men appeared, running from the shadows at the base of the ship from which the firing had come. Most of the troop were up the ladder now; two men hustled the struggling Groaci up. Beside Retief, Arrol launched three bolts in rapid-fire order. Two of the oncoming men fell. The blue flashes of power guns winked; here and there, the surface of the tarmac boiled as wild shots struck. "Come on!" The two men ran for the ladder; Arrol sprang for it, swarmed up. Retief followed. Molten metal spattered as a power-gun bolt vaporized the handrail. Then hands were hauling him safely inside the ship. "Hit the deck," Arrol yelled. "We're lifting!" IF V  V infinite repeater," an officer reported, "but no serious damage was done. They held their fire just a little too long." "We were lucky," Prince Tavilan said. "One man killed, one wounded. It's fortunate we didn't select the next ship in line. We'd have had a hornet's nest on our hands." "Too bad we broke up the battalion crap game," Retief commented. "But by now they'll be lifting off after us -- a few of them, anyway." "All right. We'll give them a warm welcome before they nail us." "If I may venture to suggest -- " Tavilan waved a hand, grinning. "Every time you get so damned polite, you've got some diabolical scheme up your sleeve. What is it this time, Retief?" "We won't wait around to be nailed. We'll drive for Deep Space at flank speed -- " "And run into Dangredi's blockade? I'd rather use my firepower on Prouch's scavengers." "That's where our friend the General comes in." Retief nodded toward the trussed Groaci. "He and Dangredi  are old business associates. We'll put him on the screen and see if he can't negotiate a brief truce. With the approval of your Highness, I think we can make an offer that will interest him." T he flagships of the pirate fleet was a four hundred year old, five hundred thousand ton dreadnought, a relic of pre-Concordiat times. In the red-lit gloom of its cavernous Command Control deck, Retief and Prince Tavilan relaxed in deep couches designed for the massive frames of the Hondu corsairs. Opposite them; Dangredi, the Hondu chieftain, lounged at ease, his shaggy, leather-strapped, jewelspangled #-pound bulk almost overflowing his thronelike chair. At Retief's side, General Hish perched nervously. Half a dozen of Tavilan's Invincibles stood around the room, chatting with an equal number of Dangredi's hulking officers, whose greenish fur looked black in the light from the crimson lamps. "What I failing to grasp," Dangredi rumbled, "is reason for why suddenly now changing of plan previously okayed." "I hardly think that matters," Tavilan said smoothly. "I've offered to add one hundred thousand Galactic Credits to the sum already agreed on." "But whole idea was compensate me, Grand Hereditary War Chief of Hondu people, for not fight. Now is offering more pay for stand and give battle." "I thought you Hondu loved war," an Eloran officer said. Dangredi nodded his heavy greenfurred head, featureless but for two wide green-pupilled eyes. "Crazy mad for warring, and also plenty fond of cash. But is smelling rodent somewhere in woodpile." "It's very simple, Commodore," Retief said. "General Hish here had arranged with you to flee when the People's Volunteer forces attacked. Now changing conditions on Elora make it necessary that you fight. And in place of the loot you wouiJ otherwise so rightly expect, you'll collect a handsome honorarium. " Suddenly the Groaci leaped to his feet, pointed at Retief. "Commodore Dangredi," he hissed. "This renegade diplomat beside me holds a gun pointed at my vitals. Only thus did he coerce me to request this parley. Had I guessed his intention, I would have dared him to do his worst. Seize the traitor, Excellency!" Dangredi stared at the Groaci. "He -- and these strutting popinjays -- plot against the security of the People's State of Elora!" Hish whispered urgently. "The plan remains unchanged! You are to flee engagement with the forces of Minister Prouch!" The great green head bobbed suddenly; hooting laughter sounded. A vast hand slapped a thigh like a shaggy beer keg. "Aha! At last is getting grasp of situation," Dangredi bellowed. "Now is little honest treachery, kind of dealing Hondu understanding!" He waved a hand at a servitor standing by. "Bringing wassail bowl, plenty meat!" He brought his hands together with a dull boom, rubbed them briskly. "Doublecross, plenty fighting, more gold at end of trail! Is kind of operation I, Dangredi, Hereditary War Chief, dreaming of in long nights of tooth-shedding time!" , "But these -- these criminal kidnappers have no authority to deal -- " "Groaci-napping is harmless pastime. Like stealing wine-melons when cub. Unless, maybe -- " he cocked a large emerald eye at Hish -- "you maybe raising ante?" "I... I will match the offer of the saboteurs of interplanetary amity! One hundred thousand in Groad gold!" Dangredi considered briefly. "No good. What about fighting? You give Hondu gunners targets in sights? Or maybe chance for roughand-tumble hand-to-hand, cold steel against enemy blades?" General Hish shuddered. "In the name of civilization, I appeal -- " "Shove civilization in ventral oriface! Hondu taking good, crooked, bloodthirsty barbarians every time. Now disappearing quietly, Groaci, while I and new buddies planning strategy. Maybe later I sending for you and bending arms and legs until you tell all about enemy battle plan." "The Groaci is our hostage," Tavilan said as the general was led away. "He's not to be bent without my prior approval." "Sure; just having little joke." Dangredi leaned back, accepted a vast drumstick and a tank of wine, waited while his guests were supplied with delicacies. "Now, Retief, you say attack coming when...?" A Magnan said, "I don't quite understand how it happened that after trouncing the Eloran Volunteers, the pirate Dangredi voluntarily gave himself up and offered the services of his entire fleet as a reserve force to replace the very units he destroyed." "Never mind that, Magnan," AmIF bassador Hidebinder said. 'As seasoned campaigners must, we shall accept the fait accompli. Our resettlement plans are set back a year, at least. It's doubly unfortunate that Prime Minister Prouch suffered a fall just at this time. Magnan, you'll attend the funeral." "With pleasure, Mr. Ambassador," Magnan said. "That is, I'll be honored." "Retief..." Hidebinder glared across the table. "I'm not going to press civil charges, since the Eloran government, at the behest of Prince Tavilan, has dropped the case. However, I may as well tell you at once -- your future with the Corps is non-existent. A trifling embezzlement of official funds, I could wink at. Embellished reports, slack performance of duty, cowardice in the face of the enemy -- these I could shrug off as youthful peccadillos. But foot-dragging in the carrying out of my policy -- " his fist thumped the desk. "Intolerable!" You openly allied yourself with -- " A messenger entered the conference room, handed a note to Magnan, who passed it to Hidebinder. He opened it impatiently, glanced at it. His jaw dropped. He read it through again. His mouth closed; his jowls paled, quivering. "Mr. Ambassador -- what is it?"  Magnan gasped. Hidebinder rose and tottered from the room. Magnan snatched up the paper, read it through, then stared at Retief. "He's been declared persona non grata ! The Imperial government gives him twelve hours to leave Elora!" Retief glanced at the wall clock. "If he hurries, he can catch the mail boat." "And you, Retief..." etief raised his eyebrows. Magnan glanced around the table. "If you gentlemen will excuse us for a few moments?" Half a dozen frowning diplomats filed from the room. Magnan cleared his throat. "This is most irregular, Retief! The Imperial government requests that you present credentials as Minister Plenipotentiary and Ambassador Extraordinary at once! They will accept no other appointee." Retief asked. "I told Prince Tavilan I wouldn't have time for a ceremonial job. I have a suggestion, Mr. Magnan. Suppose I nominate you for the post?" On sale now at all newsstands! "Over the heads of a hundred senior officers?" Magnan gasped. "Retief, dear boy... "That is, if your distaste for monarchies isn't overwhelming?" "Eh? Oh, well, as to that," Magnan sat erect, tugged his lapels into place "I've always had a sneaking admiration for absolute royalty. " "Fine. Dangredi will be along in a few minutes to arrange for supplies. It seems there are a few shipables already landing on the northern continent who'll have to be warned off. It's probably just a slip. I'm sure our former ambassador wouldn't have jumped the gun in violation of solemn treaties." "Ah," Magnan said "And, of course, the Royal Navy will require provisioning -- just to be sure the new Reservists don't get any large ideas." "Uh... " "And, of course, a new treaty plainly guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Elora will have to be worked up at once." "Oh... " Retief rose. "All of which I'm Ambassador. And by the way -- I think I could best serve the mission in some other capacity than as Admin Officer." Magnan pulled at his collar, waiting... "I think I'd better work closely with Prince Tavilan, the heir apparent," Retief said blandly. "He does a lot of hunting, so perhaps you'd better designate me as Field and Stream Attache." He picked up his crossbow which was in the corner of the room. "I leave the details to you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm going to do some hunting." by Cordwainer Smith by Richard Wilson by Wyman Guin All complete in the August Galaxy -- now on cHe! IF IF  Short Storv The berserker machine was built to destroy life. Carr's mission was to teach it to be a friend I C arr swallowed a pain pill, and tried to find a less uncomfortable position in the combat chair. He keyed his radio transmitter and spoke to the rogue ship that hung before him in space. "I come in peace. I have no weapons. I come to talk to you." He waited. The cabin of his little one-man ship was silent. His radar screen showed the berserker machine still many light-seconds ahead of him. There was no reaction from it, but he knew that it had heard him. Behind Carr was the Sol-type star he called sun, and his home planet, colonized from Earth a century before. It was a lonely settlement, out near the rim of the galaxy. Until now the war waged on life by the berserker machines had been a remote horror in the news stories. The colony's only real fighting ship had been sent to join Karlsen's fleet in the defense of Earth, when the berserkers were said to be massing there. But now the enemy was here, and the people of Carr's planet were readying two more ships in feverish haste -- they were a small colony, and not wealthy in resources. Even when the two ships were ready, they would hardly be a match for a berserker. When Carr had taken his plan to the leaders of the colony, they had thought him mad. Go out and talk to it of peace and love? Argue with it? There might be some hope of converting the most depraved human to the cause of goodness and mercy, but what appeal could alter the built-in purpose of a machine? "Why not talk to it of peace?" Carr had demanded. "Have you a nothing to lose." They had looked at him, across the gulf that separates healthy planners from those who know they are dying. They thought almost any scheme would be better than his. But they could imagine nothing else to do until the warships were ready, which would be at least ten days. The little one-man ship was expendable, being unarmed. Armed, it would be no more a provocation to a berserker. In the end, they let Carr take it, hoping there was a chance his arguments might delay the inevitable attack. For Carr himself, of course, they wasted no thought. For Carr was dying. Was as good as dead. W hen Carr came within a million miles of the berserker, it stopped its own unhurried motion and seemed to wait for him, hanging in space in the orbital track of an airless planetoid, at a point from which the planetoid was still several days away. "I am unarmed," he radioed again. "I come to talk with you, not to damage you. If those who built you were here, I would try to talk to them of peace and love. Do you understand?" He felt sure it would understand his language. All the berserker machines had learned the universal space-travelers' tongue, from human prisoners or from each other. And he was serious about talking love to the unknown Builders. Grudges and vengeance seemed tiny things to a dying man. But the Builders would not be aboard; the berserkers had been constructed, probably, when Earthmen hunted the mammoth with spears. The Builders were lost in spacetime, along with their enemies of long ago. Suddenly it answered him: "Little ship, maintain your present speed and course toward me. Be ready to stop when ordered. " "I -- I will." In spite of being ready for it, Carr found himself stuttering and shaken at the sound of its voice, the uneven mechanical reproduction of the words of human prisoners, recorded aboard or borrowed from another machine. Now the weapons which could sterilize a planet would be trained on him alone. And there was worse than destruction to be feared, if one tenth of the stories about berserkers' prisoners were true. Carr did not let himself think about that -- although the pain that racked him in momentary flood, of agony made death seem almost welcome. When he was within ten thousand miles it ordered: "Stop. Wait where you are, relative to me." Carr obeyed instantly. Soon he saw that it had launched toward him something about the size of his own ship -- a little moving dot on his video screen, coming out of the vast black fortress that floated against the stars. Even at this range he could see IF how scarred and battered that fortress was. He had heard that all of these ancient machines were damaged, from their long senseless fighting across the galaxy; but surely such apparent ruin as this must be exceptional. The berserker's launch slowed and drew up beside his ship. Soon there came a clanging at the airlock. "Open!" demanded the radio voice. "I must search you." "Then you will listen to me?" "Then I will listen." He opened the lock, and stood aside for the half dozen machines that entered. They were not unlike robot valets and workers, except that these were old and limping and worn, like their great master. Here and there a new part gleamed. But often the machines' movements were unsteady as they searched Carr, searched his cabin, probed everywhere on the little ship. One of them had to be half-carried out by its fellows, when the search was completed. Another one of the machines, a thing with arms and hands like a man's, stayed behind. As soon as the lock had closed behind the others, it settled itself in the combat chair and began to drive the ship toward the berserker. "Wait!" Carr protested. "I didn't surrender!" The ridiculous words hung in the air, seeming to deserve no reply. Sudden panic made Canmove without thinking; he stepped forward and grabbed at the mechanical pilot, trying to pull it from the chair. It put one metal hand against his chest and shoved him across the cabin, so that he staggered and fell in the artificial gravity, thumping his head painfully against a bulkhead. "In a matter of minutes we will talk about love and peace," said the radio voice. L ooking out a port as his ship neared the immense berserker, Carr saw the scars of battle become plainer and plainer, even to his unpracticed eye. There were holes in the hull, square miles of bendings and swellings and pits where the metal had once flowed molten. Rubbing his bumped head, Carr felt a faint thrill of pride. We've done that to it, he thought, we soft little living things. His own martial feeling annoyed him, in a way. He had always been something of a pacifist. Of course it could hardly be thought immoral to use violence against a dangerous but inanimate machine. After some delay, a hatch opened in the berserker's side, and Carr's ship followed the berserker's launch into darkness. Now there was nothing to be seen through the port. Soon there came a gentle bump, as of docking. The mechanical pilot shut off the drive, turned toward Carr and started to rise from the chair. Something in it failed. Instead of rising smoothly, the pilot reared up, flailed for a moment with arms that sought a grip or balance, and then fell heavily to the deck. For half a minute it moved one arm, and made a grinding noise. Then it was still. In the half minute of silence which followed, Carr realized that he was again master o ms cabin: chance had given him that. If there was something he could do -- "Leave your ship," said the calm voice. "There is an airfilled tube fitted to your airlock. It will lead you to a place where we can talk of peace and love." Carr's eyes, with a sort of reluctant horror, had dragged themselves to focus on the engine switch, and beyond that, to the C-plus activator. The C-plus jump was not usable as a drive anywhere near the huge mass of a sun. In such proximity as this to a mass even the size of the surrounding berserker, the effect became only a weapon -- a weapon of tremendous potential power. Carr did not -- or thought he did not -- any longer fear sudden death; he was too near to the slow, sure kind. But now he found that with all his heart and soul he feared what might be prepared for him outside the airlock. All the horror stories came back. The thought of going out through that airlock now was unendurable. It was less terrifying for him to step carefully around the fallen pilot, to reach the controls and turn the engine back on. "I can talk to you from here," he said, his voice quavering in spite of an effort to keep it steady. After about ten seconds, the berserker said: "Your C-plus drive has safety devices. You will not be able to kamikaze me." "You may be right," said Carr after a moment's thought. "But if a safety device does function, it might hurl my ship away from your center of mass, right through your hull. And your hull is in bad shape now. You don't want any more damage." "You would die." "I'll have to die sometime. But I didn't come out here to die, or to fight. I came to talk with you, to try to reach some agreement." "What kind of agreement?" At last Carr took a deep breath, and marshaled the arguments he had so often rehearsed. He kept his fingers resting gently on the C-plus activator, and his eyes alert on the instruments that normally monitored the hull for micrometeorite damage. "I've had the feeling," he began, "that your attacks upon humanity may be only some ghastly mistake. Certainly we were not your original enemy." "Life is my enemy. Life is evil." Pause. "Do you want to become goodlife?" C arr closed his eyes for a moment; some of the horror stories were coming to life. But then he went firmly on with his argument. "From our point of view, it is you who are bad. We would like you to become a good machine, one that helps men instead of killing. Is not building a higher purpose than destroying?" There was a longer pause. "What evidence can you offer that I should change my purpose?" "For one thing, helping us will be a purpose easier of achievement. No one will damage you and oppose you." "What is it to me, if I am damaged and opposed?" Carr tried again. "Life is basicalIF f superior to non-life; and man is the highest form of life." "What evidence do you offer?" "Man has a spirit." "I have learned that men claim that. But do you not define this spirit as something beyond the perception of any machine? And are there not men who deny that this spirit exists?" "Spirit is so defined. And there are such men." "Then I do not accept the argument of spirit." Carr dug out a pain pill and swallowed it. "Still, you have no evidence that spirit does not exist. You must consider it as a possibility." "That is correct." "But leaving spirit out of the argument for now, consider the physical and chemical organization of life. Do you know anything of the delicacy and intricacy or organization in even a single living cell? And surely you must admit we humans carry wonderful computers inside our few cubic inches of skull." "I have never had an intelligent captive to dissect," the mechanical voice informed him blandly, "though I have received some relevant data from other machines. But you admit that your form is the determined result of the operation of physical and chemical laws?" "Have you ever thought that those laws may have been designed to do just that -- produce brains capable of intelligent action?" There was a pause that stretched on and on. Carr's throat felt dry and rough, as if he had been speaking for hours. "I have never tried to use that hypothesis," it answered suddenly. "But if the construction of intelligent life is indeed so intricate, so dependent upon the laws of physics being as they are and not otherwise -- then to serve life may be the highest purpose of a machine." "You may be sure, our physical construction is intricate." He wasn't sure he could follow fhe machine's line of reasoning, but that hardly mattered if he could somehow win the game of Life. He kept his fingers on the C-plus activator. The berserker said: "If I am able to study some living cells -- " Like a hot iron on a nerve, the meteorite-damage indicator moved; something was at the hull. "Stop that!" he screamed, without thought. "The first thing you try, I'll kill you!" I ts voice was unevenly calm, as always. "There may have been some accidental contact with your hull. I am damaged and many of my commensal machines are unreliable. I mean to land on this approaching planetoid to mine for metal and repair myself as far as possible." The indicator was quiet again. The berserker resumed its argument. "If I am able to study some living cells from an intelligent lifeunit for a few hours, I expect I will find strong evidence for, or against, your argument. Will you provide me with cells?" "You must have had prisoners, sometime." He said it as a suspicion; he really knew no reason why it must have had human captives. It could have learned the language from another berserker. "No, I have never taken a prisoner." It waited. The question it had asked still hung in the air. "The only human cells on this ship are my own. Possibly I could give you a few of them." "Half a cubic centimeter should be enough; not a dangerous loss for you, I believe. I will not demand part of your brain. Also I understand that you wish to avoid the sensation avoid it, if possible." Did it want to drug him? That seemed too simple. Always unpredictability, the stories said, and sometimes a subtlety out of hell. He went on with the game. "I have all that is necessary. Be warned that my attention will hardly waver from the control panel. Soon I will place a tissue sample in the airlock for you." He got the medical kit, took two pain-killers, and set very carefully to work with a sterile scalpel. He had had some biological training. When the small wound was bandaged, he cleansed the tissue sample of blood and lymph and with unsteady fingers sealed it into a little tube. Without letting down his guard for an instant, he dragged the fallen pilot to the airlock and left it there with the tissue sample. Utterly weary, he got back to the combat chair. When he switched the outer door open, he heard something come into the lock, and leave again. He took a pep pill. It would stimulate some pain, but he'd be alert. Two hours passed. Carr forced himself to eat some emergency rations, watched the panel, and waited. He gave a startled jump when the berserker spoke again; nearly six hours had gone by. "You are free to leave," it was saying. "Tell the leading life-units of your planet that when I have refitted, I will be their ally. The study of your cells has convinced me that the human body is the highest creation of the universe, and that I should make helping you my purpose. Do you understand?" Carr felt numb. "Yes. Yes f have convinced you. After you have refitted, you will fight on our side." Something shoved hugely and gently at his hull. Through a port he saw stars, and realized that the great hatch through which his ship had entered was swinging open. T his far within the system, Carr necessarily kept his ship in normal space to travel. It meant he could see the berserker as he fled from it, and he kept it in sight as long as possible. His last sight of the berserker showed it moving as if indeed about to let down upon the airless planetoid. Certainly it was not following him. A couple of hours after being freed, he roused himself from contemplation of the radar screen, and went to spend a full minute considering the inner airlock door. At last he shook his head, dialed air into the lock, and entered it. The pilot was gone, with the tissue sample. There was nothing strange to be seen. Carr took a deep breath, IF as if relieved, closed up the lock again, and went to a port to spend some time watching the stars. After a day he began to decelerate, so that when hours had added into another day, he was still a good distance from home. He ate, and slept, and watched his face in a mirror. He weighed himself, and he watched the stars some more, with great interest, like a man examining something long forgotten. In two more days, gravity bent his course into a hairpin ellipse around his home planet. With his whole world bulking between him and the berserker's rock, Carr began to use his radio. "Ho, on the ground! Good news." The answer came almost instantly. "We've been tracking you, Carr. What's going on? What happened?" He told them of his encounter with the berserker. "So that's the story up to now," he finished. "I expect the thing really needs to refit. It is seriously damaged. Two warships attacking it now should easily win." "Yes." There was excited talk in the background. Then the voice was back, sounding uneasy. "Carr -- you haven't started a landing approach yet, so maybe you understand. We've got to be careful. The thing was probably lying to you." "Oh, I know. Even that pilot's collapse might have been staged. I guess the berserker was too badly shot up to want to risk a battle, so it tried another way. Must have sneaked the stuff into my cabin air, just before it let me go -- or maybe left it in my airlock." "What stuff?" Carr said, "The stuff you're worrying about. The poison it thinks will kill us all. I'd guess it's some freshly mutated virus, designed for specific virulence against the tissue I gave it. It expected I'd hurry home and land before getting sick, and spread a new plague. It must have thought it was inventing biological warfare, using life against life, as we use machines against machines. But it needed that tissue sample to blood its pet viruses. It didn't know our chemistry. It must have been telling the truth about never having a human prisoner." "Some virus, you think? What's it doing to you, Carr? Are you in pain -- I mean, more than before?" "No." Carr swirled his chair to look at the little chart he had begun. It showed that in the last two days his weight loss had started to reverse itself. He looked down at his body, at the bandaged place near the center of a discolored, inhuman-looking area. That area was sm ailed than it had been, and he saw a hint of new and healthy skin. "What is the stuff doing to you?" Carr allowed himself to smile, and to speak aloud his growing hope.      They hod thought this world empty of mankind -- now they found how wrong they were I T ie object swept on past, turned, and made a wide circle around their little plantation -- stopped, turned again and came straight toward them at a much lower altitude. Hugh became aware that Grace had been screaming, now had stopped, and that he had one arm around Barbara -- how, he did not recall. When the flying object had appeared, she had been some distance away, putting clothes to soak in the outside washtub. Now she was circled by his left arm and he could feel her trembling. "Hugh, what is it?" "People." The thing hovered above their What Has Gone Before    hold and dedicated bridge player, is spending a quiet weekend in his home while the world hovers on the brink of disaster. His son, admits the wisdom of Farnham's construction of a bomb shelter -- radiation proof, blast proof, self-contained as to air, food and water. Farnham' s wife, ment, for it has been years since Grace Farnham felt needed and important enough to justify her role in the household and she has sunk into a sort of cheerful, alcoholic apathy. Their daughter, brought with her a schoolmate, the household is the houseboy, servant, part substitute son for Hugh Farnham. After dinner they settle down to a few rubbers of bridge -- interrupted by a sudden, sneak nuclear attack. The war that all have both feared and disbelieved in... has begun. After a night of terror and discomfort in the shelter, the six survivors emerge and find themselves in a world they do not recognize. There is no sign of bomb damage, except the twisted shell of their shelter -- but neither is there any sign of the homes, the roads, the cities that had been all around them. They are alone in a wilderness. Months pass, during which Karen dies and Hugh and Barbara find themselves in love. Then, without warning, a strange duster of flying machines drop toward them out of the sky. They have been found -- but by whom? flagpole. They all now could see that there were people on it; several heads showed above its low sides. A corner detached itself from the rectangle, splitting off sharply. It dove and stopped in the air by the peak of the flag pole. Hugh saw that it was a separate car, perhaps nine feet long and three feet wide, with one passenger, or pilot. Still no details could be seen, no clue to motive power. The car enclosed the lower part of the man's body; his trunk, arms, and head projected above. Hugh was reminded of a horse and rider, or possibly an Eskimo in a kayak. The man removed the flag from the pole, rejoined the main craft. its corner; no seam remained. The rectangle in the air suddenly disintegrated. It broke into separate units like that one which had detached itself to filch their flag. Most of them remained in the air; some dozen or so landed, three of them in a triangle around the group of colonists. Duke yelled, "Watch it!" and dived for his gun on the ground. H e never made it. Instead he leaned forward at a curious angle as if he were balancing against a heavy roll of a ship. He pawed the air with an expression of amazement and slowly was pulled back to vertical. Barbara gasped in Hugh's ear. "Hugh, what is it?" "I don't know." He did not have to ask what she meant; he had suddenly felt, at the same time his son was stopped, that he seemed to be standing waist deep in invisible quicksand. "Don't fight it." "I wasn't going to." Grace shrilled, "Hubert! Hubert, do some -- " Her cries cut off. Then she seemed to faint but did not fall. Four of the boxlike individual cars were six or eight feet in the air, lined up abreast, and were slowly cruising over the most level part of the clearing, Barbara's farm. Where they passed, everything underneath, corn stalks, tomato plants, beans, squash, lettuce, potato hills, everything including branching irrigation ditches, was leveled, pressed flat into a sort of macadam. The raw end of the main ditch spilled water over this new pavement. One of the cars whipped around to that point, ran a new and deeper ditch around the raped area in a wide sweep of several hundred yards which allowed the ditch water to circle around the destroyed garden and reach the stream at a new point lower down. Barbara buried her face against Hugh's shoulder. He patted her The car that had made the by pass ditch went upstream along the old ditch. Soon the water ceased to flow at all. As fast as the garden was leveled other cars landed on it. Hugh was unable to figure out just what they did or how they did it, but a large pavilion, glossy black and ornately decorated in red and gold, grew up in seconds in the clearing. Duke called out, "Dad! For God's sake, can't you get at your gun?" Hugh was wearing a forty-five, the only weapon he had planned to take on the hike. He had already discovered that his hands were only slightly hampered by whatever held them. But he answered, "I shan't try." "Are you going to just stand there and let -- " "Yes. Duke, use your head. If we hold still and don't fight, we may live longer. We'll try to parley." Out of the pavilion strode a man. He seemed to be almost seven feet tall but some of this height was a helmet, plumed and burnished. He wore a flowing skirt of red embroidered in gold and was bare from the waist up save that an end of the skirt was thrown back across one shoulder such that it covered, diagonally, part of his broad chest. He was shod in black boots. All other men who had passed close enough to be seen were dressed in black coveralls with a red and gold patch at the right shoulder. Hugh felt an impression that this man (there was no slightest doubt that he was master) -- that the big man, the boss, the commander, had taken his time to change into more formal clothes. Hugh was encouraged by this. Unquestionably they were prisoners -- but if the leader took the trouble to dress up before interviewing them, then it followed that they were prisoners of some importance and a parley might be fruitful. Or did that follow? But he was encouraged by the man's visage as well as his clothes. He had an air of good-natured, jovial arrogance and his eyes were bright and merry. His forehead was high and his skull massive; he looked intelligent and alert. Hugh could not place his race. All the skin that showed, from his waist up, was dark, smooth brown and as shiny as if he oiled it. But his mouth was only slightly Negroid, his nose, though broad, was arched, and his black hair was wavy. He carried a small crop, or whip, or swagger stick, but no weapons. H e strode up to them, stopped abruptly when he reached Joseph. He gave some curt order to the nearest of their three captors. Joe stretched and bent his legs. "Thanks." The man spoke to Joe. Joe answered, "Sorry, I don't understand." The man spoke again. Joe shrugged helplessly. The man grinned and patted him on the shoulder, turned away, picked up the rifle Duke had tried for. He handled it clumsily, making Hugh flinch at his apparent ignorance of, or indifference to, safety precautions about where to point the muzzle of a gun. Nevertheless he seemed to understand guns. He worked the bolt, ejecting one cartridge, then put it to his shoulder with passable form, aimed at a point and fired. The blast was deafening. He had fired right past Hugh's ear. He grinned broadly, tossed the rifle to one of his subordinates, walked up to Hugh and Barbara, reached out to touch Barbara's childswollen belly. Hugh knocked his hand away. With a gesture almost negligent, IF certainly without anger, the big man brushed Hugh's hand aside with the crop he carried. It was not a blow, it would barely have swatted a fly. Hugh gasped in agony. His hand burned like fire and his arm was numb to the armpit. "Oh, God!" Barbara said urgently, "Don't, Hugh. Let him. He isn't hurting me." Nor was he. With a manner which showed only impersonal interest as a veterinarian might take in feeling a pregnant mare or bitch, the big man felt out the shape of the child she carried -- while Hugh writhed in that special humiliation of a man unable to protect his woman. The big man finished, grinned at Barbara and patted her head. Hugh tried to ignore the pain in his hand and dug into his memory for a language imperfectly learned. "Vooi govoriti'yeh po-Russki, Gospodin?" The man glanced at him, made no answer. Barbara said, "Sprechen sie deutsch, mein Herr?" That got her a smile, nothing more. Hugh called out, "Duke, try him in Spanish!" "Okay. Halbla usted Espanol, Senor?" No response. Hugh sighed. "We've shot our wad." "M'sieur?" Joe said. "Est-ce que vous parlez la langue francaise?" The man suddenly turned and faced Joseph. "Tiens?" "Parlez-vous francais, monsieur?" "Mais oui! Vous etes francaises?" "Non, non! Je suis americain. Nous sommes tous am#ricains." "Vraiment? Impossible!" "C'est vrai, monsieur. Je vous en assure." Joe pointed to the peak of the empty flag pole. "Les Etats-Unis de l'Amerique." The conversation became less easy to follow as both sides stumbled along in broken French. At least they paused and Joe said, "Hugh, he has asked me -- ordered me, I think -- to come with him into his tent and talk. I've asked him to let you all loose first. He says No. 'Hell, no!' it amounts to." "Ask him to let the women loose." "I'll try." Joe spoke at some length with the big man. "He says the enceinte femme -- that's Barbara -- C an sit down where she is. But the 'fat one' -- Grace he means -- is to come along with us." "Good enough. Good work, Joe. Get us a deal." "I'll try. I don't understand him very well." T he three went into the pavilion. Barbara found that she could sit down, even stretched out which Hugh urged her to do. But the invisible web held Hugh as clingingly as ever even though she was right next to him. "Dad," Duke said urgently, "this is our chance to make plans, while nobody is around who understands English." "Duke," Hugh answered wearily, "can't you see they hold all the trumps? It's my guess that we are alive as long as he isn't annoyed with us -- and not one minute long" Aren't you even going to try to fight? Where's all that talk you used to giv me about how you were a free man and planned to stay free?" Hugh rubbed his hurt hand. "Duke, I'm not going to argue. You start anything now and you'll get us all killed. That's how I size it up." "So k was just talk?" Duke said scornfully. "Well, I'm not making any promises." "All right, all right. Drop it." "I'm still not making any promises. Just tell me one thing, Dad. How does it feel to be shoved around? Instead of doing the shoving?" "I don't like it." "Neither did L And I've never forgotten it. I hope you get your bellyful of it." Barbara said, "Duke, for heaven's sake, stop talking like a fool!" Duke looked at her. "I'll shut up. Just tell me one thing. Where did you get that baby in you?" Barbara did not answer. Hugh said quietly, "Duke, if we get out of this, I promise you a beating for that remark." "Any time, old man, any time." They quit talking. Barbara reached out and patted Hugh's ankle. Four or five of the uniformed men gathered around the pile of household objects, picked through them, looking them over. A man whose manner spelled petty officer came up and gave them an order; they dispersed. He looked at some of the objects himself, then peered into the shelter and went inside. Hugh heard a sound of rushing water, looked and saw a brown wava rushing down the stream bed. Barbara raised her head and asked, "What is that?" "Our dam is gone. It doesn't matter." After a long time Joe came out of the pavilion alone. He came up to Hugh and said, "Well, here's the scoop, as nearly as I can get it. Not too near, maybe; he speaks some sort of patois and neither one of us is really fluent anyhow. But here it is. We're trespassers, this is private land. He also figured that we were escaped prisoners -- the word is something else, not French, but that's the idea. I've convinced him -- I think I've convinced him -- that we are perfectly innocent people brought here through no fault of our own. "Anyhow, he's not mad at us, even though we are technically criminals -- trespass, and planting things where farms aren't supposed to be and building a dam and a house and things like that. He's not really sore and I think everything is going to be all right -- as long as we do as we are told. He finds us interesting -- how we got here and so forth." Joe stopped and looked at Barbara. "You remember that theory that you had about parallel universes?" "Certainly. I guess I was right. No?" "No." Joe shook his head. "This part is as confused as can be and I didn't understand it. But one thing is absolutely sure. Barbara, Hugh -- Duke, get this! This is our own world, right here." IF D uke said, "Joe, that's preposterous." "You argue it with him. He's convinced me. He knows what I mean by the United States, he knows where France is. And so forth. No question about it." "Well -- " Duke paused. "As may be. But what about this? Where's my mother? What's the idea of leaving her in there with that savage?" "She's all right, she's having lunch with him. And she's enjoying it. Just let it run easy, Duke, and we're going to be okay, I think. Soon as they finish lunch we'll be leaving." A few minutes later Hugh helped Barbara climb into the 'back of one of the odd flying machines, then mounted into one himself, behind the pilot. He found the seat comfortable and, in place of a safety belt, a field of that invisible quicksand enclosed the lower part of his body as he sat down. His pilot, a young Negro who looked remarkably like Joe, glanced back then took off with neither noise nor fuss and joined his car into the reforming rectangle in the air. Hugh saw that perhaps half the small cars had passengers; the passengers were whites, the pilots were invariably colored, ranging from as light brown as a Javanese to as sooty black as a Fiji Islander. The car he was in was half way back and in the outside starboard rank of the formation. He looked around, spotting where each of the others had wound up, and was only mildly surprised to see that Grace was riding behind the boss man, in the front rank, middle position. Joe was behind them, rather muchly buried in cats. Off to his right, two cars had not joined up. One hovered over the pile of household goods, gathered them up in a non-existent cargo net, moved away. The second car positioned itself directly over the shelter. The massive concrete block lifted, steadily, straight up, and on an even keel, without disturbing the shack on its roof. The small car and its giant burden took position about fifty feet off the starboard side. The entire formation moved forward and gathered speed but Hugh felt no wind of motion. The little car flanking them seemed to have no struggle keeping up despite its giant burden. Hugh could not see the ofher loaded car but assumed that it was on the port side. The last he saw of their home was a bare scar where the shelter had rested, a larger scar where Barbara's farm had been, and a meandering track that used to mark an irrigation ditch. He looked away and rubbed his sore hand, reflecting that the whole thing had been a gross abuse of coincidence. It offended him the way a hand of thirteen spades in a putatively hondst deal would offend him. He pondered a remark Joe had made just before they had loaded: "We were incredibly lucky to have encountered a scholar. French is a dead language -- 'une langue perdue,' he called it." . Hugh craned his neck back to the left, caught Barbara's eye. She smiled at him. XI M emtok, Chief Palace Domestic to the Lord Protector of the Noonday Region, was busy and happy -- happy because he was busy, although he was not aware that he was happy and was given to complaining about how hard he had to work, all because, as he put it, although he commanded some eighteen hundred servants there were not three of them who could be trusted to empty a slop jar without close supervision. He had just completed a pleasant interview chewing out the head chef; he had suggested that the chef himself, old and tough as he certainly would be, nevertheless would make a better roast than the piece of meat the chef had been careless enough to send in to Their Charity the evening before. One of the duties that Memtok assumed personally was always to sample what his lord ate, despite the risk of poison and despite the fact that Their Charity's tastes in cuisine were not his own. It was merely one of the innumerable ways in which Memtok gave ever painstaking attention to details, an imaginative diligence that had brought him, still in his prime, to his present supreme eminence. The head chef had grumbled and Memtok had sent him away with just a taste of the lesser whip to remind him that cooks were not all that hard to find. Then he had turned happily to his paperwork. There were stacks of it, as he had just completed moving the household from the Palace to the Summer Palace -- thirty-eight of the Chosen but only four hundred and sixty-three servants; the summer residence was run with a skeleton staff. The twice-yearly move always involved a wash of paperwork -- purchase orders, musters, inventories, vouchers, shipping lists, revisions of duty rosters, dispatches -- and he considered as usual advising his patron to have some likely youngster muted and trained as his clerk. But he rejected the idea, also as usual; Memtok did not trust servants who could read and write and add, it gave them ideas even if they could not talk. The truth was, Memtok loved his paperwork and did not want to share it. His hands flew quickly over the papers, checking figures, signing his symbol, okaying payments. He held his pen in an odd fashion, nested between the first three fingers of his right hand -- this because he had no thumbs. He did not miss them, could barely remember what it had been like to have them. Nor did he need them. He could handle a spoon, a pen, and a whip without them, and he had no need ever to handle anything else. Far from missing his thumbs, he was proud of their absence; they proved that he had served his lord in both major capacities, at stud when he was younger and now these many years as a tempered domestic. Every male servant over fourteen (with some scarce special exceptions) showed one alteration or the other; very few could exhibit both, only a few hundred on the entire IP Earth. Those few spoke as equals only to each other, they were an elite. Someone scratched at the door. "Come!" he called out, then, when he saw who it was, growled, "What do you want?" The growl was automatic but he really did dislike this servant for the best of reasons; he was not subject to Memtok's discipline. He was of a different caste, huntsmen, wardens, keepers, and beaters, and was subject to the Majordomo of the Preserve. The Majordomo considered himself to be of the same rank as the Chief Domestic, and nominally was. However, he had thumbs. Memtok's greatest objections to the Summer Palace was that it often put him in contact with these servants who had the unpardonable fault of not being under his orders. While it would take only a word to Their Charity to crack down on one of them, he disliked to ask, and while he could touch one of them up a little without any real fear of reprimand, the louse would be sure to complain to his own boss. Memtok did not believe in friction between executive servants. Bad for morale. "Message from Boss. Rayed to tell you Their Charity on his way back. Says four savages with the escort. Says you better tear up to the roof, take care of them. All." " 'All'? Damn you, what do you mean 'AH'? Why four savages? And in the Name of Uncle when are they arriving?" "All," the servant insisted. "Message came in about twenty minutes ago. I been looking all over for you." "Gef out!" Memtok was jarred out of his warm euphoria of fussing with bits of paper. The important part of the message was that Their Charity was arriving home instead of staying away over night. Chef, Receptionist, Musical Director, Housekeeper, Groundskeeper, all heads of departments -- he was phoning orders even as he thought. Four savages? Who cared about four savages? But he was on the roof and accepted their custody. He would have been there anyway, with the Lord Protector arriving. W hen they arrived Hugh had no chance to see Barbara, reassure her, tell her to keep her chin up. When at last he was released from the gentle restraint of the "seat belt," he was confronted by a little bald-headed white man with a waspish face, an abrupt manner, and a whip. He was dressed in a white robe which reminded Hugh of the night shirts his grandfather had worn, save that it had on the right shoulder the red and gold patch which Hugh had tentatively identified as the insigne of the big man, the boss. The emblem was repeated in rubies and gold on the chest of the little man as a medallion supported by a heavy gold chain. The man in the nightshirt looked him over with obvious distaste, then turned him and Duke over to another white man in a nightshirt This man wore no medallion but did carry a small whip. Hugh rubbed his hand and resolved not to test whether this whip was as potent as the ornate one carried by the big boss. Duke tested it. The angry little man gave instructions to his straw boss, and left. The straw boss gave them an order; Hugh correctly interpreted the tone and gesture as: "All right, you guys, get going. This way" -- and got going. Duke didn't. The straw boss barely touched him on his left calf; Duke yelped before he could stop himself. He limped the rest of the way -- down a ramp, into what turned out to be a very fast lift, then into a windowless, light, white-walled room which whiffed vaguely of hospitals. Duke understood the order to strip down without needing to be stimulated; he cursed but complied. Hugh merely complied. He was beginning to understand the system. The whips were used as spurs are used by a good rider, to exact prompt obedience but not with intent to damage. From there they were herded into a smaller room where they were hit from all sides by streams of water. The operator was in a gallery above. He shouted at them, then indicated in pantomine that they were to scrub. They scrubbed. The water jets cut off, they were doused in a sirup that was liquid soap or detergent. They scrubbed again and were rinsed and were required to scrub still again, all to gestures that left no doubt as to how thorough a bath was expected. The water jets got very hot and harsh, changed to cold and still harsher, were replaced by violent blasts of hot air. It was all too much like an automatic dishwasher, Hugh felt, but they ended up cleaner than they had been in months. An assistant to the bathmaster then plastered strips over each of their eyebrows, rubbed an emulsion on their scalps, into their scratchy beards (neither had shaved that day), over their backs and chests and arms and legs, and finally into their pubic hair. Duke got another lesson in obedience before he submitted to this last indignity. When, immediately thereafter, they were subjected willy-nilly to enemas, he gritted his teeth and took it. The water closet was a whirlpool set in the floor. Their finger and toe nails were cut short. After that they were bathed again. The eyebrow patches washed away. So did their hair. When they came out this time, they were both bald all over, save for eyebrows. The bathmaster made them gargle, showing them what he wanted and spitting into the whirlpool. They gargled three times -- a rather pleasant, pungent liquid -- and when it was over Hugh found that his teeth seemed cleaner than they had ever been in his life. In fact he felt utterly clean, lively, glowing with wellbeing -- but humiliated. They were taken to another room and examined. T heir examiner was clearly a physician. He wore the conventional white night shirt and a small insigne on a thin gold chain but he IF needed no diplomas on the wall to show his profession. His bedside manner would never make him rich, Hugh decided; he had the air of many military surgeons Hugh had known -- not unkind but quite impersonal. He seemed much surprised by and very interested in a removable bridge he found in Hugh's mouth. He examined it closely, looked in Hugh's mouth at the gaps it had filled, gave it to one of his assistants with some instructions. The assistant went away and Hugh wondered if his chewing was going to be permanently hampered. The physician took a leisurely hour or more over each of them, using instruments Hugh did not recognize and whose functions he could not, in most cases, guess. Weight, height, and blood pressure were almost the only familiar items. Things were done to them, too, none of them really unpleasant -- no hypodermic needles, no knives. During this, Hugh's bridge was returned and he was allowed to put it back in. But the tests andor treatments often seemed to be indignities even though not painful. Once, when Hugh was stretched out on a table from which Duke had just been released, the younger man said, "How do you like it, Dad?" "Restful." Duke snorted. The fact that both men had appendicitis scars seemed to interest the physician as much as the removable bridge. By acting he indicated a severe bellyache, then jabbed a thumb vigorously into McBurney's point. Hugh conveyed agreement -- with some difficulty, as nodding the head seemed to mean a negative response. An assistant came in and handed the physician a contrivance which turned out to be another dental bridge, for Hugh was required to open his mouth; the old one was again taken out and the new one carefully seated. It felt to Hugh's tongue as if he again had natural teeth there. The physician then probed a couple of cavities, cleaned them out and filled them -- without pain but without anesthesia so far as Hugh was aware. After that Hugh was rather suddenly "strapped" (an invisible field again) to a table, supine, and his legs were elevated. Another table was wheeled up and Hugh suddenly realized that he was being prepared for surgery -- and with horror he was sure just what sort of surgery. "Duke! Don't let them grab you! Fight! Get that whip!" Duke hesitated an instant too long. The therapist did not carry a whip; he merely kept one at hand. Duke lunged for it, the physician got it first. Moments later Duke was on his back, still gasping his agony at punishment he had taken in trying to stop it and having his knees elevated and spread. They both went on protesting. The physician looked at them thoughtfully and the straw boss who had fetched them was called in. They conferred. Presently the waspish little man with the big medallion strode in, looked the situation over, stormed out. There was a long wait. The boss A therapist filled in the time by having his assistants complete preparations for the surgery and there was no longer the slightest doubt in Hugh's mind, or Duke's, as to just what they were in for. In fact Duke pointed out that it would have been far better if they had fought -- and died -- earlier in the day, rather than wind up like this. As they would have fought, he reminded his father, if Hugh hadn't turned out to be chicken. Hugh didn't argue, he agreed. He tried to tell himself that his docility in being captured was on account of the women. But it afforded him little comfort. After a long time the little man with the medallion stormed back in, apparently angrier than ever. He snapped one curt order; Hugh and Duke were released. That ended it, save that they were each rubbed all over with a fragrant cream. They were given a white nightshirt apiece, conducted some distance through long bare passages and Hugh was shoved into a cell. The door was not locked but he could not open it. In one corner was a tray, with covered dishes and a spoon. The food was excellent and some of it utterly unidentifiable; Hugh ate with good appetite, scraping the dishes and drinking all of the thin beer with it. Then he slept for a while on a soft part erf the floor, having blanked his mind of useless worry. He was awakened by being prodded with a foot. He was taken to still another plain, windowless room, which turned out to be a school room. Two of the short white men in nightshirts were there. They were equipped with many props, the equivalent of a blackboard (it could be cleared instantly by some magic), infinite patience -- and a whip, for the lessons were "taught to the tune of a hickory stick." No error went unnoted. They both could draw well and both were skilled and imaginative pantominists; Hugh was taught to speak. He was taught with extraordinary speed. Hugh discovered that his memory was greatly sharpened by the stimuli of pain; he had little tendency to repeat a mistake. At first he was punished only for forgetting vocabulary, but as he learned, he also grew to expect flicks of pain for errors in inflection, construction, idiom, and accent. This Pavlovian treatment continued -- if his mental records were correct -- for seventeen days; he did nothing else and saw no one but his teachers. They worked in shifts. Hugh worked every possible minute, about sixteen hours a day, he thought; at least he was never allowed quite enough sleep although he never felt sleepy -- he didn't dare -- during lessons. Once a day he was bathed and given a clean nightshirt, twice a day he was fed, tasty food and plentiful, three times a day he was policed to the toilet. All other minutes were spent learning to speak, with ever the sharp awareness that any bobble would be instantly punished. IF But he learned how to duck punishment -- sometimes. A question, quickly put, would sometimes do. "Teacher, this one understands that there are protocol modes for each status, rising and falling, but what this one in its ignorance lacks is knowledge of what each status is -- being wholly without experience through the inscrutable ways of Uncle the Mighty -- and also is sometimes not aware of the status assumed for teaching purposes by my charitable teacher and of the status this humble one is expected to assume in reply. More than that, this one does not know its own status in the great family. May it please its teacher." T he whip was put down and for the next half hour he was lectured. The problem was more involved than Hugh's question showed. The lowest possible status was stud. No, there was one lower: servant children. But children were expected to make mistakes, it did not matter; truly they had no status. Next higher was slut, then tempered servant -- a category with subtle and effectively unlimited gradations of rank inside it, so involved that speech of equals was often used if the gradient was not clearly evident. High above all servants were the Chosen, with their own unlimited and sometimes changing variations of rank, including those ritual circumstances in which a lady takes precedence over a lord. But that was not usually any worry of a servant; always use protocol rising mode. However -- "If two of the Chosen speak to you at once, which one do you answer?" "The junior," Hugh answered. "Why?" "Since the Chosen do not make mistakes, this one's ears were at fault. The senior did not actually speak, for his junior would never have interrupted." "Correct. You are a' tempered gardener and you encounter a Chosen of the same rank as your lord uncle. He speaks. 'Boy, what sort of a flower is that?' " "As Their Charity knows much better than this one can ever know, if this one's eyes are not mistaken, that plant may be a hydrangea." "Good enough. But drop your eyes when you say it. Not to me. To the Chosen. Now about your status -- " The teacher looked pained. "You haven't any." "Please, teacher?" "Uncle! I've tried to find out. Nobody knows but our Lord Uncle and they have not ruled. You're not a child, you're not a stud, you're not a tempered, you don't belong anywhere. Uncle alone knows. You're a savage and you don't fit." "But what protocol mode must I use?" "Always the rising. Oh, not to children. Nor to sluts, I venture. No need to overdo it." Except for the changes in inflection by status, Hugh found the language simple and remarkably logical. It had no irregular verbs and its syntax was orderly; it probably had been tidied up at some time by edict. He suspected, from a few words that he recognized -- "simba," "bwana," "wazir," "etage," "trek," "oncle" -- that it had its roots in several African languages. But that did not matter. This was "Speech" and, according to his teachers, the only language spoken anywhere. In addition to protocol modes, quite a chunk of the vocabulary was double, one form of a word being used down, its exact synonym although often utterly different in root used up. He had to know both -- be able to recognize one and to use the other. The pronunciation gave him trouble at first, but by the end of the first week he could lip-smack, click, make the fast glottal stop, and hear and say vowel distinctions he had never suspected existed. By the sixteenth day he was chattering freely, beginning to think in it, and the whip was rarely used. Late the next day the Lord Protector sent for him.  lthough he had already been bathed that day, Hugh was rushed through another violent bath in five minutes, rubbed down with fragrant cream, and issued a fresh white robe, before being whizzed to the lord's private apartments. There he was bounced past a series of receptionists close on Memtok's heels, and into a large, private, and very sumptuous retiring room. The lord was not there; Joseph and Dr.-Livingstone-I-Presume were. Joe called out, "Hugh! Wonderful! You may go Memtok." Memtok hesitated, then backed away and left. Joe ignored him, slipped his arm in Hugh's, and led him to a divan. "Gosh, it's good to see you! Sit down, we'll talk until Ponse gets here. You look well." Doctor Livingstone came up, checked Hugh's ankles, purred and stropped against them. "I am well. 'Ponse'?" Hugh reached down and scratched the cat's ears. "Don't you know his name? The Lord Protector, I mean. No, I guess you wouldn't. That's one of his names, the one he uses en famille. He has a string of them, of course. Never mind, have they been treating you all right?" "Yes. I suppose so." "They had better. Ponse gave orders for you to be pampered. Look, if you aren't treated okay, you tell me. I can fix it." Hugh hesitated. "Joe, have you had one of those odd whips used on you?" "Me?" Joe seemed astonished. "No, of course no." He looked troubled. "Hugh, have they been abusing you? Peel off that mother hubbard and let me have a look." Hugh shook his head. "There are no marks on me. I haven't been hurt. But I certainly don't like it." "But if you've been stroked for no reason -- Hugh, that's one thing that Ponse does not tolerate, I know. He's a very humane sort of guy. All he wants is discipline. If anybody -- anybody at all, even Memtok -- has been cruel to you, well, somebody is going to catch it." Hugh thought about it. In actual IF truth he rather liked his teachers. They had worked hard and patiently over him and had been quite sparing of him once R became possible to talk instead of using the whip. "I haven't been hurt. Just reminded." "I'm glad to hear it. Actually, Hugh, I didn't see how you could be. That quirt Ponse carries -- well, you could kill a man with it at a thousand feet. I takes real skill to use it gently. But those toys the upper servants carry, all they do is tingle and that's all they are supposed to do." Hugh decided not to argue over what constituted a tingle; he had more urgent things on his mind. "Joe, how are the others? Have you seen them?" "Oh, they're all right. Certainly. You heard about Barbara?" "I haven't heard a damn thing! What about Barbara?" "Slow down. Having her babies, I mean." "She had her baby?" " 'Babies,' I said. Twin boys, identical. A week ago." "How is she? How is she?" "Easy, man! She's just fine, couldn't be better. Of course. They are way ahead of where we were in medicine; losing a mother, or a baby, is unheard of." Joe suddenly looked sad. "It's a dicty shame they didn't runacross us at least three months back." He brightened, "Barbara told me that she had intended to name it Karen, if it was a girl. When it turned out to be twin boys, she named one -- the one five minutes the elder -- 'Hugh' and named the other 'Kari Joseph.' Nice, eh?" "I'm flattered. Then you've seen her. Joe, I've got to see her. Right away. How do I arrange it?" J oe looked astonished. "But you carit see her, Hugh. Surely you know that." "Why, in God's name, can't I?" "Why, you're not tempered, that's why. Impossible." "Oh." "I'm sorry, but that's the way it is." Joseph suddenly grinned. "But I understand that you were almost made eligible by accident. Ponse laughed his head off at how close you came and how you and Duke yelped." "I don't see the humor of it, I'm afraid." "Oh, shucks, Hugh, he simply has a robust sense of humor. He laughed when he told me about it. I didn't laugh and he decided that I have no sense of humor. Different people laugh at different things. Karen used to use a fake Negro dialect that set my teeth on edge, the times I happened to overhear it. But she didn't mean any harm by it. Karen -- Well, they just don't come any better, and you and I both know it and I'll shut up about it. Look, if the vet had gone ahead on you, without orders, it would have cost him his hands; Ponse sent that word to him. Might have suspended the sentence, of course, to save his usefulness -- good surgeons are valuable. But his assumption was only natural, Hugh. Both you and Duke are too tall and too big for stud. However, Ponse doesn't tolerate sloppiness." "All right, all right. I still don't IF see the harm in my calling on Barbara and seeing her babies. You saw her. And you're not tempered." Joe looked patiently exasperated. "Hugh, it's not the same thing. Surely you know it." "Why isn't it?" Joe sighed. "Hugh, I didn't make the rules. But I'm Chosen and you're not, and that's all there is to it. It's not my fault that you're white, now, k it?" "No. All right. Forget it." "Let's just be glad that one of us is in a position to get us all some favors. Do you realize that all of you would have been executed at once? If I hadn't been along?" "The thought has crossed my mind. Lucky indeed that you knew French. And that he knows some French." Joe shook his head. "French didn't enter into it, it merely saved time. The point was that  was there... and the rest of you were excused of any responsibility on that account. What had to be settled then was the degree of my criminality. My neck was very much in a noose." Joe frowned. "I'm still not in the clear. I mean, Ponse is convinced he's acquitted me. But my case still has to be reviewed by the Supreme Lord Proprietor. It's his preserve -- Ponse is just custodian. I could be executed for it yet." # Toe what in the world is there about it to cause you to talk about being executed?" "Plenty! Look, if you four ofays had been there alone, Ponse would have tried you and excuted you just by looking at you. Two capital crimes and both self-evident. Escapees. Servants who had run away from their lord. Destructive trespass in a personal domain of the Supreme Proprietor. Open-and-shut on both counts and death for each of them. Now don't tell me that wasn't the way it was because I already know it and it took me long enough to make Ponse see it, using a language neither one of us knows too well. And my own neck is still in jeopardy. However -- " He brightened up -- "Ponse tells me that the Supreme Proprietor is ten years behind in reviewing criminal cases and that it has been more years than that since he last set foot on this preserve or even cruised over it... and that long before my case can possibly come up there won't be a trace of any destruction. They are already putting the trees back and there's never an accurate count of bears and deer and other game. He tells me not to worry." "Well, that's good." "But maybe you think I haven't done some sweating over it! Just letting your shadow fall across the Supreme Lord Proprietor means your neck. Sneezing in his presence is even worse -- so you can figure out for yourself that trespassing on land that is his personally is nothing to take lightly. But I shan't worry as long as Ponse says not to. He's been treating me as a guest, not as a prisoner. But tell me about yourself. I hear you've been studying the language. So have I -- a tutor every day I've had time for it." Hugh answered, "May it meet with their approval, this one's time has, as they know, been devoted to nothing else." "Whoo! You speak it better than I do." "I was given incentive," Hugh said, relapsing into English. "Joe, have you seen Duke? Grace?" "Duke, no. I haven't tried to. Fact is, Ponse has been away most of the time and took me along; I've been terribly busy. Grace, yes. It's even possible that you might see Grace. She's often in these apartments. That's the only way you could see her, of course. Right here. And in the presence of Ponse. Might happen. He's not a stickler for protocol when it suits his convenience to break it. In private, I mean. He keeps up appearances in public. His position requires it." "Hmm -- Joe, in that case, couldn't you ask him to let me see Barbara and the twins? Here? In his presence?" Joe looked exasperated. "Hugh, can't you understand that I'm just a guest? I'm here on sufferance. I don't have a single servant of my own, no money, no title. I said you might see Grace here; I did not say you would. If you did, it would be because he had sent for you and it suited him not to send her out -- not for your convenience. As for asking him to let you see Barbara, I simply can't. And that's that! I advise you not to, either. You might learn that his quirt doesn't just tingle." "All I meant was -- " "Watch it, Hugh! Here he comes, we'd better rise." J oe stood up and went to meet his host. Hugh stood with head bowed, eyes downcast, and waited to be noticed. Ponse came striding in, dressed much as Hugh had seen him before save that the helmet was replaced by a little red skullcap. He greeted Joe, sat heavily down on a large divan, stuck out his legs. Doctor Livingstone jumped up into the lord's lap; he stroked it. Two female servants appeared from nowhere, pulled off his boots, wiped his feet with a hot towel, dried them, massaged them, placed slippers on them, and vanished. While this was going on, the Lord Protector spoke to Joe of matters Hugh had never heard of and could not follow other than as words, but he noticed with interest that the noble used the mode of equals to Joe and that Joe talked the same fashion to him. Hugh decided that Joe must be in as solid as Doctor Livingstone. Well, Joe did have a very pleasing personality. At last the big man glanced at him. "Sit down, boy." Hugh sat down, on the floor. The lord went on, "Have you learned Language? We're told that you have." "May it please Their Charity, this one's time has been devoted singly to that purpose, with what inadequate results known to them far better than their servant would dare venture to estimate." "Not bad, not bad. Accent could be crisper. And you missed an infix on one word. How do you like the weather we've been having lately?" "Weather is as Uncle the Mighty ordains it If it pleases His favorite IF nephew, it cannot fail to make joyful one so humble as this servant." "Quite good. Accent still blurry but understandable. Work on it. Tell your teachers we said it. Now drop that fancy speech, I haven't time to listen to it when I want a straight answer. Equals speech, always. In private, I mean." "All right. I -- " Hugh broke off suddenly; one of the female servants had returned, to kneel in front of her lord with a cold drink on an ornate tray. Ponse glanced sharply at Hugh, then looked at the girl. "It? Doesn't count, it's a deaf mute. You were saying?" "Nothing much. I was about to say that I couldn't have an opinion about the weather because I haven't seen it at all since I got here." "I suppose not. I gave orders for you to learn Language as quickly as possible and servants are inclined to follow instructions literally. No imagination. All right, you are to walk outdoors an hour each day from now on. Tell whoever is in charge of you. Any petition? Are you getting enough to eat? Are you being treated well?" "The food is good. I'm used to eating three times a day but -- " "You can eat four times a day if it's any comfort to you. Again, tell the one in charge of you. All right, now to other matters. Hugh -- that's your name, isn't it?" "Yes, Their Charity." "Can't you hear? I said, 'Use equals mode.' My private name is Ponse. Use it. Hugh, if I had not picked you people up myself, were I not myself a scholar, and had I not seen with my own eyes the artifacts in that curious structure, your house, I would not have believed it. As it is, I must. I'm not a superstitious man. Uncle works in mysterious ways, granted, but He doesn't use miracles... and I would not hesitate to repeat that in any temple on Earth, unorthodox as. it sounds. But -- How long does it come to, Jeer' "Two thousand one hundred and three years." "Call it two thousand. What's the matter, Hugh?" "Uh, nothing, nothing." "If you're going to throw up, please go outside to do it; I picked out these rugs myself. As I was saying, you've given my scientists something to think about -- and a good thing, too; they haven't turned out anything more important than a better mouse trap in years. Lazy scoundrels. I've told them to come up with a sensible answer, no miracles. How five people -- or six, I understand -- and a small building of some mass could hurdle twenty centuries and never break an egg. Exaggregation. Joe tells me it broke some bones and some other things. Speaking of bones, Joe tells me this won't please you -- and it didn't please him -- but for scientific reasons, I ordered my scientists to disturb some bones. Strontium sampling, that sort of thing; I suppose you've never heard of it. Clear proof that the cadaver had matured before the period of maximum radioactivity -- Look, I warned you about these rugs. Don't do it!" n H ugh gulped ("Karen! Karen! Oh, my darling!") "Better now? Perhaps I should tell you that a priest was present throughout, all proper propitiations were made -- exactly as if it had been one of the Chosen. Special concession, my orders. And when the tests were completed every atom was returned and the grave closed with proper rites. "That's true, Hugh," Joseph said gravely. "I was there. And I put on fresh flowers. Flowers that will stay fresh, I'm told." "Certainly they will stay fresh," Ponse confirmed, "until they wear out from sheer erosion. I don't know why you use flowers but if there are any other rites or sacrifices necessary to atone for what may seem to you a desecration, just name it. I'm a broad-minded man; I'm aware that other times have bad other customs." "No. No, best just let it be." "As you wish. It was done from scientific necessity. It seemed more reasonable than amputating one of your fingers though perhaps I might have asked you. Other tests also kept my scientists from wiggling out of the obvious. Foods preserved by primitive methods so ancient that I doubt if any modem food expert would know how to go about duplicating same -- and yet the foods were, I am told, edible. At least some servants were required to eat them. No harm resulted. A fascinating radioactivity gradient between the upper and inner sides of the roof structure -- I gave them a hint on that one. Acting on information received from Joe, I ordered them to look for evidence that this event took place at the very beginning of the East-West War that destroyed the Northern Hemisphere. "So they found it. And calculations led them to believe that the structure must have been very near to the origin of an atom-kernel explosion. Yet it was unhurt. That produced a theory so wild that I won't tire your ears with it; I've told them to go on working. "But the best thing, from my viewpoint, is the historical treasure you bring with you. I am a man of history, Hugh. History, properly interpreted, tells everything. The treasure, of course, are those books that came along with you. I am not exaggerating when I say that they are my most precious possessions. There are only two other copies of the Encyclopedia Britannica in the world today -- and those other two are not this edition and are in such poor shape that they are curiosities rather than something a scholar can work with; they weren't cared for during the Turmoil Ages." Ponse leaned back and stretched and looked very happy. "But mine is in mint condition!" He added, "I'm not discounting the other books. Treasures, all of them. Especially one, the Adventures of Odysseus, which is not known only by reputation. I take it that the pictures in that book date from the time of Odysseus, too?" "I'm afraid not. The artist was alive in my time." "Too bad. They're interesting, nevertheless. Primitive art, stronger IF than we have now. But perhaps I exaggerated when I said that the the books were my chiefest possession." "Yes?" "You are! There! Doesn't that please you?" H ugh barely hesitated. "Yes. If true." (If it's true that I am your chattel, you arrogant bastard, I prefer being a valuable one!) "Oh, quite true. And if you had been speaking in protocol mode, you wouldn't have been able to phrase a doubt. I never lie, Hugh; remember that. You and -- That other one, Joe?" "Duke." " 'Duke.' Although Joe speaks highly of your scholarship, not so highly of its. But let me explain what you mean to me. There are other scholars who read Ancient English quite readily. None at present in my household, true. Since it is not a root language to any important degree, few study it. Nevertheless scholars of English could be found, be borrowed. But none such as yourself. You actually lived then; you can, I am sure, read English as readily as I read Language, you'll be able to translate knowledgeably, without these maddening four and five interpretations of a single passage that so disfigure most translations from ancient sources, all because the scholar doesn't really know what the ancient author was talking about. Lack of cultural context, I mean. And no doubt you will be able to supply on demand footnotes and explanations for things obscure to me and commonplace to you. "Right? Right! So you see what I want of you. Start with the Encyclopedia Britannica. Get busy today, translate it. Just scribble it out quickly, sloppy but fast Sne else will pretty it up for my eyes. Understand? All right, go do it." . Hugh opened his mouth, gulped, closed it, then started over. "But, Ponse, I can't write Language." "Whatl" "I was taught to speak it; I haven't been taught to read and write it." Ponse blinked. "Memtok!" The Chief Palace Domestic arrived with such speed that one might have suspected that he was just outside the door. And so indeed he had been -- listening in on private con versations of his patron by means, Memtok was certain, were not known to the Lord Protector... certain inasmuch as Memtok was still breathing. Such measures were risky but he found them indispensable to the efficient performance of his duties. At worst, it was safer than planting a slut in there who was not quite a deaf mute. "Memtok, I told you that it was to be taught to speak, read, and write Language." Hugh listened, with eyes downcast, while the Chief Domestic tried to protest simultaneously that the order had never been given (it had not) but nevertheless had been carried out (obviously false), all without contradicting the Lord Protector (impossible to reconcile, inconceivable to attempt). "Garbage," Ponse remarked. "I don't know why I don't put you up for adoption. You would look good in a coal mine. That pale skin of yours would be much improved by some healthy coal dust." He twitched the quirt in his hand and Memtok paled still more. "Very well, let it be corrected. It is to spend half of each day in learning to read and write, the other half in translating and in dictating same into a recorder. I should have thought of that before; writing out a translation takes too long. Nevertheless I want it to be able to read and write; it will need it for all I have in mind." He turned to Hugh. "Anything else you can think of? That you need?" Hugh started to phrase a request in the involved indirection which presumed nothing, as required by protocol mode, rising. P onse chopped him off. "Speak directly, Hugh. Memtok, close your ears. No ceremony needed in Memtok's presence, he is a member of my inner family, my nephew in spirit if not in the eyes of my senior sister. Spit it out." Hugh noticed that Memtok relaxed and looked as beatific as his vinegar features permitted. "Well, Ponse, I need more rooni to work. My cell is about the size of that divan. Smaller." "Describe your needs." "Well, I'd like a room with natural light, one with windows, say a third the size of this one. Working tables, book shelves, writing materials, a comfortable chair -- yes, and access to a toilet without having to wait; it interferes with my thinking otherwise." "Don't you have that now?" "No. And I don't think it helps my thinking to be touched up with a whip. I'm quite used to working hard without such inducement." "Memtok, have you been whipping it?" "No, my uncle. I swear." "You would swear if you were caught with cream on your lip. Who has been?" Hugh dared to interrupt. "I'm not complaining, Ponse. But those whips make me nervous, I'm not used to them. And I never know who can give me orders. Anybody, apparently. I haven't been able to find out my status." "Hmm -- Memtok, where do you have it in the Family?" The head servant barely conceded that he had not been able to solve that problem. "Let's solve it. We make it a department head. Mmm. Department of Ancient History. Title: Chief Researcher. Senior head of department, just below you. Pass the word around. I'm doing this to make clear just how valuable this servant is to me... and anyone who slows up its work, even indirectly, is likely to wind up in the stew. I suppose it will really be a one-servant department but you can fill it out, make it look good, by transferring its teachers, and whoever looks out for its recorder and prepares the stuff for me, a cleaner or two, maybe an assistant to keep them straight and bossed -- I don't want to take up its valuable time on routine. A messenIF ger. You know. I'm sure there must be dozens of idlers around this house, eating their silly heads off, who would look well in the Department of Ancient History. Now have fetched a lesser whip and a lesser badge. Move." In moments only Hugh was wearing a medallion not much smaller than Memtok's. Ponse took the whip of office and removed something from it. "Hugh, I'm not giving you a charged whip, you don't know how to use it. If one of your loafers need spurring, Memtok will be glad to help; he's expert. Later, when you know how, we'll see. Now. Are you satisfied?" Hugh decided that it was not the time to ask to be allowed to see Barbara. Not with Memtok present. But he was beginning to hope that he could ask soon. He and Memtok were dismissed together. Memtok's face showed nothing but he did not object when Hugh walked abreast of him. M emtok was silent while he led Hugh back down to servants' country; he had much to think over. He was figuring out how to handle this startling development to his own advantage. This savage's status had troubled the Chief Domestic from arrival. The trouble was, he didn't fit -- and in Memtok's world everything had to fit. Well, now the savage had an assigned status. Their Charity had spoken and that was that. But the situation was not improved; it was worse. The newly assigned status was so ridiculous as to make the whole below-stairs structure (the whole world, that is) a mockery. But Memtok was shrewd and very practical. The bedrock of his philosophy could be summed up in: You can't fight City Hall. And his basic strategy in applying that philosophy was the pragmatic wisdom expressed in: When you can't beat 'em, you join 'em. How could this savage's preposterous promotion be made to appear both necessary and proper -- and a credit to the Chief Palace Domestic? Uncle! The savage wasn't even tempered. Nor would he be. At least not yet, he amended. Later, possibly -- it would make everything so much more tidy. Memtok had been amazed when Their Charity had postponed the obvious, couldn't understand it. But there it was. Memtok hardly recalled nis own tempering; his emotions and drives before that time were a thin memory -- of someone else. There was certainly no reason for the sav age to have kicked up a fuss about it; tempering marked promotion into real living. Memtok looked forward to at least a half a century more of activity, power, gracious liv ing, satisfaction. What stud could possibly claim that? But there it was. How to make it look good? A Curiosity! That's what the savage was, a Curiosity. All great lords possessed Curiosities; there had been times when visiting with his equals or near-equals in his own caste that he had been somewhat ashamed of the fact that his own lord took no interest in owning Curiosities. There were not even Siamese twins nor a two-headed freak in the whole household, not even stuffed. Not even a flipperarmed dwarf as a clown. Their Charity was -- let's admit it -- too simple in his tastes for his high rank; sometimes Memtok was a little ashamed of him. Spending his time on scrolls and such when he should be upholding the pride of the house. That lord of Hind -- What was his title? Prince something or other silly. Never mind, he had that big cage where studs and sluts lived and mated with great apes, talked the same jabber -- it wasn't Language -- and you couldn't tell which was which save that some were hairy and some were smooth. There was a Curiosity worthy of a great household! That lord's chief domestic had declared by the Uncle that there were live crossbreeds from the experiment, hidden away where the priests couldn't object. Memtok doubted that but wasn't certain. It might be true, since it was a nevermentioned fact that despite all official denial crossbreeds between servants and Chosen were possible -- and did happen, even though designated bedwarmers were always sterile. But these rare accidents were never allowed to see the light of day. A Curiosity, that was the angle. An untempered who was nevertheless a servant executive. A Famous Scholar who had not even been able to speak Language when he was almost as old as Memtok. A man out of nowhere. From the stars, perhaps. Everybody knew that there were men somewhere in the stars. Probably a miracle involved... and the temples were investigating and any year now this household would be famous for its unique Curiosity. Yes. A word here, a word there, a veiled hint -- # #TTugh," Memtok said cordially. "May I call you 'Hugh'?" "What? Why, certainly!" "And you must call me 'Memtok.' Let's stroll a bit and pick out space for your departmental headquarters. You would like a sunny place, I understand? Perhaps rooms facing on the gardens? And do you want your personal quarters opening off your headquarters? Or would you rather have them elsewhere so that you can get away from it all?" The latter, Memtok had already decided. Roust out both the head gardeners and the studmaster and give the savage both their quarters -- that would make everyone understand at once just how important this Curiosity was... and get both of them sore at the savage, too, which was good. He'd soon realize who was his friend. Memtok,. namely, and nobody else. Besides, the gardener had been getting a little uppity, implying that his work didn't really come under the Chief Domestic. A touching up was what he needed. Hugh said, "Oh, I don't need anything fancy. Just a convenient place to work." "Come, come! We want you to have every facility. Not a word, not IF a word. I wish  could get away from it all sometimes. But I can't. Problems, problems, problems, every minute of the day; some people have to have all their thinking done for them. It will be a real treat to have a man of the mind among us. We'll find you cozy personal quarters, plenty of room for you and your valet. But separate." Valet? Was there a tempered young buck around, well housebroken and biddable, who could be depended on to report everything and keep his mouth shut? Suppose he had his sister's eldest son tempered now, would the lad shape up in time to do the job? And would his sister see the wisdom in pushing matters and part with the boy now? Or would she squawk? He had great hopes for the boy, as she well knew. Memtok was coldly aware that he would have to go some day -- though not for many years -- and he was determined that his heir should succeed to his high office. But it would take planning and such planning could never start too soon. If his sister could be made to see it -- Memtok intentionally led Hugh through crowded passageways instead of by the direct and private route from Memtok's office to the Lord's apartments; servants 'scurried out of the way wherever they went -- save one unfortunate who stumbled and got tingled for his awkwardness. "My!" said Hugh. "This is a big building." Smaller than Gimbel's, perhaps. Or perhaps not. "This? Wait till you see the Paln ace itself -- though no doubt it is falling to rack and ruin at the moment, under my chief deputy. Hugh, we use only a quarter of the staff here. There is no formal entertaining, just garden parties. And only a handful of guests. In the city the Chosen are always coming and going. Many is the time I am rooted out of bed in the middle of the night to open apartments for some lord and his ladies without a moment's warning. And there is where organization and planning count. To be able to open the door of a guest wing flat and know -- know , mind you, know without even looking -- that the beds are freshly perfumed, refreshments hot and cold waiting, everything spotless, music softly playing." "That must take real staff work." # # O taff work!" Memtok snorted.  "I wish I could agree. What it does take is for me myself to inspect every room, every night, no matter how tired I am, before I go to bed. Then stay up long enough to see that mistakes are corrected, not depend on their lies. They're all liars, Hugh. Too much 'Happiness.' But Their Charity is generous; he never cuts down on the ration." "Certainly I've found the food ample. And good." "I didn't say food, I said 'Happiness.' I control the food, not Their Charity -- and I don't believe in starving them, not even as punishment. A tingle is better. They understand that. One thing you must always remember, Hugh, is that most servants don't really have minds. They're as thoughtless as the Chosen -- not referring to Their Charity of course; I would never criticize my own patron. I mean Charity in general. You understand." He winked and gave Hugh a dig in the ribs. "I don't know much about the Chosen," Hugh admitted. "I've hardly laid eyes on them and I've spoken only to Their Charity." "Well... keep your eyes open, you'll see. But it takes more than a dark skin to make brains no matter what they teach in temple. Not that I expect you to quote those sentiments nor would I admit it if you did. But -- who do you think runs this household?" "I don't think I've been here long enough to express opinions." "Very shrewd. You could go far if you had ambition. Let me put it this way. If Their Charity goes away, the household goes on smoothly as ever -- or smoother. If I am away, or dare to fall sick -- well, I shudder to think of it." He gestured with his whip ahead of them. "They know. You won't find them scurrying that fast to get out of his way." Hugh changed the subject. "I did not understand your remark about a 'ration of Happiness. " "Haven't you been receiving yours?" "I don't know what it is." "Oho! One bullock gets you three that it has been issued but never got as far as you. Must look into that. As to what it is, I'll show you." Memtok led him up a ramp, through a door and out onto a balcony. Below was the servants' main dining IF hall, now crowded with three queues. "This is issue time -- studs at a different hour, of course. They can have it as drink, in chewing form, or to smoke. The dosage is the same but some say that smoking it produces the keenest happiness." Memtok used words not yet in Hugh's vocabulary. Hugh told him so. Memtok said, "Never mind. It improves the appetite, steadies the nerves, promotes good health, enhances all pleasures -- and wrecks ambition. The trick is to be able to take it, or leave it alone. I never took it regularly even when I was at stud; I had ambition. I take it now only on feast days or such -- and only in moderation." Memtok smiled. "You'll find out tonight." "I will?" "Didn't I tell you? Banquet in ybur honor, just after the hour of evening prayer." Hugh was hardly listening. He was searching the far queue, trying to spot Barbara. M emtok sent the Chief Veterinarian and the Household Engineer as an escort of honor for Hugh. Hugh was mildly embarrassed at this attention from the physician and surgeon in view of the helpless posture he had been in the last time he had seen the man. But the veterinarian seemed to see nothing odd, he was most cordial. Memtok headed the long table with Hugh on his right. Some twenty department heads were seated; there was at least one lower servant standing behind each guest and endless streams of them coming in and out from kitchen and pantry. The banquet room was beautiful, its furnishings lavish, and the feast was sumptuous and endless; Hugh wondered what a meal of the Chosen must be like if their upper servants ate this way. He soon found out, in part. Memtok was served twice, once from the same tasty and numerous dishes everyone shared, again from another complete menu. These dishes he sampled, using separate plates for them, but rarely did more than taste. Of the regular menu he ate sparingly and sometimes passed up dishes. He noticed Hugh's glance. "The Lord Protector's dinner. Try any of it you like. At your own risk, of course." "What risk?" "Poison, naturally. When a man is over a hundred years old his heir is certain to be impatient. To say nothing of business competitors, political rivals, and subverted friends. Go ahead; the taster tries it half an hour before Their Charity -- or I -- touches it, and we've lost only one taster this year." Hugh decided that his nerve was being tested; he tried a spoonful from a dish Memtok had sampled. "Like it?" asked Memtok. "Seems a bit greasy to me." "Hear that, Gnou? Our new cousin is a man of taste. Greasy. And someday you'll be fried in your own grease, I fear. The truth is, Hugh, that we eat better than the Chosen do... although courses are served more elaborately and beautifully in the Grand Hall, of course, of course. But I am a gourmet who appreciates artistry in food; Their Charity really doesn't care what it is as long as it doesn't squeal when he bites it. In fact, if the sauces are too elaborate, the spices too exotic, he'll send it back with a demand for a plain slice of roast, a hunk of plain bread, and a pitcher of milk. True, Gnou?" "You have said it." "And frustrating." "Very," admitted the chef. "So Cousin Gnou's best cooks work for us, and the Chosen struggle along with ones whose chief skill lies in getting a bird's skin back on without ruffling the feathers. And now, Cousin Hirh, if you will excuse me a moment, I must lift up to the Grand Hall and attempt by proper ceremony to make Cousin Gncu's piece de resistance seem better than it is. Hugh, don't believe what they tell you about me while I'm gone -- regrettably it's all true." He exposed his teeth in what must have been a smile and left. N o one spoke for a while. Finally someone -- Hugh thought it was the transportation master but he had met too many too fast -- said, "Chief Researcher, what household were you with before you were adopted here, may one ask?" "One may ask. House of Farnham. Freeholder Extraordinary." "So. I am forced to admit that the title of your Chosen is new to me. A new title, perhaps?" "Very old," Hugh answered. "Extremely ancient and granted directly by Uncle the Mighty, blessed be His Name. The rank is roughly that of king, but senior to it." "Really?" said the master. Hugh decided to drop that shovel and pick up a wider one. In his conversation earlier that day he had learned that Memtok knew a reat deal about many things -- but almost nothing about such trivia as history, geography, and other matters outside the household. And he had learned in his Language lessons that a servant who could read and write was rare, even among executive servants, unless the skill was necessary to his duties. Memtok had told him proudly that he had petitioned the opportunity while he was still at stud and had labored at it to the vast amusement of the other studs. "But I had my eyes on the future," he had told Hugh. "I could have had at least five more years, probably ten, at stud. But as soon as I could read, I petitioned to be tempered. So I had the last laugh -- for where are they now?" Hugh decided that the very widest shovel was needed; a big lie was always easier to sell than a little one. "The title is unbroken for over three thousand years in House Farnham. The line remained intact by direct intervention of the Uncle right through the Turmoil and the Change. Because of its Divine origin its holder always speaks to the Proprietor as an equal, 'thee' and 'thou.' " Hugh drew himself up proudly. "And  was factotum-in-chief of Lord Farnham. I did everything for him." "A noble house indeed. But 'factotum-in-chief'? We don't use that designation here. Is it a domestic?" "Yes and no. The chief domestic mrks under the factotum." IF The man almost gasped. "And so ? " Hugh went on, "do all servant executives, domestic or not -- business, political, agrarian, everything. The responsibility is very wearing." "So I should imagine!" "It is. i was growing old and my health was failing -- I suffered a temporary paralysis of my lower limbs. Truthfully I never liked so much responsibility, I am a scholar by nature. So I petitioned to be adopted and here lam -- scholar to a Chosen of similar scholarly tastes... a fitting occupation." Hugh then realized that he had stretched one item too far; the veterinarian had looked up with interest. "This paralysis. I noted no signs." (Damn it, doctors never cared anything about anything but their own specialty!) "It came on me suddenly one morning," Hugh said smoothly, "and I haven't been troubled by it since. But to a man of my years, a warning to be heeded." "And what are your years? Professional interest, of course. One may ask?" H ugh tried to make the snub as direct as some he had heard Memtok pass out. "One may not. I'll let you know when I need your services. But," he added, to sooth the smart a little, "It would be fair to say that I was born some years earlier than was Their Charity." "Astonishing. From your physical condition -- quite good, I thought -- I would have judged you to be no more than sixty, at the most." "Blood will tell," Hugh said smugly. "As you know best. I am not the only one of my blood line to live a very long time." He was saved from further evasions to cover his whoppers by the return of Memtok. Everyone stood up. Hugh didn't notice in time, so he remained seated and brazened it out. If Memtok resented it, he did not let it show. He clapped Hugh on the shoulder as he sat down. "No doubt they've told you how I eat my own young?" "I was given the impression of a happy family presided over by a beloved uncle." "Liars, all of them. Well, I'm through for the evening -- until some emergency comes up. Their Charity knows that we are welcoming you; he commanded me not to return to the Grand Hall. So now we can relax and be merry." The Chief Domestic tapped his goblet with a spoon. "Cousins and nephews, a toast to our newest cousin. Possibly you heard what I said -- the Lord Protector is pleased at our modest effort to make Cousin Hugh feel at home in Their family. But I am sure that you already guessed that... since one cannot miss that Cousin Hugh carries, not a least whip, but a lesser whip exactly like mine!" Memtok smiled archly. "Let us all trust that he will never need to use it." Loud applause greeted the boss's "You all know that not even my chief deputy carries such authority, much less the ordinary department head... and from that I am sure you will conclude that a hint from Cousin Hugh, Chief Researcher and Aide in Scholarship to Their Charity by direct apointment -- a hint from him is an order from me -- so don't let me make it a direct order. "And now the first toast! All cousins together and let Happiness flow freely... so let the junior among us give the first toast. Who claims it, who claims it?" The party got rowdy. Early, Hugh noted that Memtok drank very sparingly. He remembered the warning and tried to emulate him. But it was impossible. The Chief Domestic could drop out of any toast, merely raise his glass, but Hugh as guest of honor felt compelled to drink them all. S ome unknown time later Memtok led him back to his newly acquired and luxurious quarters. Hugh felt drunk but not unsteady -- it was just that the floor was so far away. He felt illuminated, possessed of the wisdom of the ages, floating on silvery clouds, and soaked through with angelic happiness. He still had no idea what was in Happiness drinks (he had drunk it only, not smoked or chewed it) . Alcohol? Maybe. Betel nut? Mushrooms? Probably. Marijuana? It seemed certain. He must remember to write down the formula while it was fresh in his mind. This was what Grace should have had! He must -- But of course, she did have it now. How very nice! Poor old Grace. He had never understood her -- all she needed was a little Happiness. Memtok took him into his bedroom. Sleeping across the foot of his lovely new bed was a female creature, blonde and cuddly. Hugh looked down at her from about a hundred feet elevation and blinked. "Who she?" "Your bed warmer. Didn't I say?" "But -- " "It's quite all right. Yes, yes, I know you are technically a stud. But you can't harm her, I assure you; this is what she is for. No danger. Not even altered. A natural freemartin, this one." Hugh turned around to discuss it, wheeling slowly because of his great width and high sail area. But Memtok was gone. Hugh found that he could just make it to the bed. "Move over, Kitten," he muttered, and fell asleep. He overslept but the kitten was still there; she had his breakfast waiting. He looked at her with unease -- not because he had a hangover; he did not. Apparently Happiness did not exact such payments -- and was thereby that much more insidious. He felt physically strong, mentally alert, and morally straight -- and very hungry. But this teenager was an embarrassment. "What's your name, kitten?" "May it please them, this one's name is of such little importance that whatever they please to call it will be a boon." "Cut it, cut it! Use equals speech." "I don't really have a name, sir, not yet. Mostly they just say, 'Hey, you.' " "All right, I'll call you 'Kitten.' Does that suit you? You look like a kitten." She dimpled. "Yes. sir. It's ever so much nicer than 'Hey, you.' " "All right, your name is 'Kitten' IF and tell everybody that it is and don't answer to 'Hey, you.' Tell them that is official because the Chief Researcher says so and if anybody doubts it, tell them to check with the Chief Domestic. If they dare." "Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Kitten, Kitten, Kitten," she repeated as if memorizing it, then giggled. "Pretty!" "Good. Is that my breakfast?" "Yes, sir." He ate in bed, offering her bits, and discovered that she evidently expected to be fed, or at least allowed to eat. There was enough for four; between them they ate enough for three. Then he learned that she expected to assist him in the bathroom; he put a stop to that. L ater, ready to get hard at work at his assigned duties, he said to her, "What do you do now?" "I go back to sluts' quarters, sir, as soon as you release me. But I come back at bedtime -- whatever time you say." He was about to tell her that once was a joke and that she was charming and that he almost regretted passing out the night before but that he did not require her services on any future -- He stopped, An idea had hit him. "Look. Do you know a tall slut named Barbara? Oh, this much taller than you are, at least. She was adopted something over two weeks ago and she had babies, twin boys, about a week ago." "Oh, yes, sir. The savage." "That's the one. Do you know where she is? Can you go to her?" "Oh, yes, sir. She's still in lyingin quarters. I like to go in there and look at the babies." She looked wistful. "It must be nice." "Uh, yes. Can you take a message to her?" Kitten looked doubtful. "I don't know. She might not understand. She's a savage, you know. She can't talk very well." "Mmm. Damn. No, maybe it's a help. Wait a moment." His quarters had been equipped witha desk; he went to it, got one of those extraordinary pens -- they didn't stain and didn't wear out and appeared to be solid plastic, no ink -- found a piece of paper. Hastily he wrote a note, asking Barbara about herself and the twins, assuring her of his own welfare and his odd promotion, telling her that soon, somehow, he would see her -- be patient, dear -- and assuring her of his love. He added a P.S. "The bearer of this note is 'Kitten' -- if the bearer is short, blonde, busty, and about fourteen. She is my bedwarmer -- and that's all she is and you've got an evil mind, wench! I'm going to hang onto her because she is a way -- the only way, it would appear -- for me to communicate with you. I'll try to write every day, I'll darn well expect a note from you every day. If you can. And if anybody does anything you don't like, tell me and I'll send you his head on a platter. I think. Things are looking up. Plenty of paper and a pen herewith. Love, love, love -- H. It's habit-forming." He gave the girl the note and writing materials. "You know the Chief Domestic by sight?' "Oh, yes, sir. I've warmed his bed. Twice." "Really? I'm amazed." "Why, sir?" "Well, I didn't think he would be interested." "You mean because he's tempered? Oh, but several of the executives like to have a bedwarmer anyhow. I like it better than being sent upstairs; it's less trouble and you get lots more sleep. The Chief Domestic doesn't usually send for a bedwarmer, though. It's just that he checks us and teaches us manners before we are allowed to serve upstairs." She added, "You see, he knows all about it; he used to be a stud, you know." She looked at Hugh with innocent curiosity that seemed capable of staring through his robe. "Is it true what they say about you? May you ask?" "Uh... one may not." "I'm sorry, sir." She looked crushed. "I didn't mean any harm. But some of the sluts are such gossips." She glanced fearfully at his whip, looked away and dropped her eyes. "Kitten." "Yes, sir." "See this whip?" "Uh, yessirl" "You will never, never, never feel my whip. That's a promise. Never. We're friends." Her face lit up and she looked angelically beautiful instead of merely pretty. "Oh, thank you, sir!" "And another thing. The only whip you need fear from now on is the Chief Domestic's. So stay out of his way. Anyone else -- any 'least whip' -- you tell him, or her, that this lesser whip is what he'll get if he touches you. Tell him to check with the Chief Domestic if he doesn't think I mean it. Understand me?" "Yes, sir." She looked smugly happy. Too smug, Hugh decided. "But you stay out of trouble. Don't do anything to deserve a tingle -- or I might turn you over to the Chief Domestic for a real tingling, the sort he is famous for. But as long as you are working for me, don't allow anyone but him to tingle you... and I solemnly promise that my whip will never touch you. Now git and deliver that. I'll see you tonight, say about two hours after evening prayer. Or come earlier if you are sleepy and go to bed." Must remember to have a little bed put in here for her, he reminded himself. K itten touched her forehead and left. Hugh went to his office and spent a happy day learning the alphabet and dictating three articles from the Britannica. He found his vocabulary utterly inadequate, so he sent for one of his teachers and used the man as a walking dictionary. Even so, he found it necessary to amplify and explain almost endlessly; concepts had changed. Kitten went straight to the Chief Domestic's office, made her report, turned the note and writing materials over to him. Memtok was more than a little annoyed that he held in his hand what might be important evidence -- and no way to read k. It did occur to him that that other one -- Duke? Some such -- might possibly be able to read these hen IF scratches. But not likely, of course, and even under tingiing there would be no certainty that Duke would translate honestly, and no way to check on him. Asking Joe, of course, never never crossed his mind. Nor did asking Their Charity's new bedwarmer. But the impasse did have one intriguing aspect. Was it possible that this savage slut actually could read? And perhaps even essay to write a reply? He stuck the note in his copier, gave it back to the girl. "All right, your name is Kitten. And do exactly as he tells you about not letting yourself be tingled -- and be sure to gossip about it; I want it known all over. But get this -- " He gave Kitten the gentlest of reminders on her left calf; she jumped. "This whip is waiting for you, if you make any mistakes." "This one hears and obeys!" Hugh returned to his flat from the executives dining room rather late; he had sat around and gossiped. He found Kitten asleep in his bed and remembered only then that he had forgotten to ask for another bed for her. She had clutched in her hand a folded paper. Gently he worked it out withput waking her: Darling, How utterly wonderful to see your handwriting! Almost as good as touching your hand. (But not quite.) I knew from Joe that you were safe, hadn't heard about your promotion, didn't know for sure that you knew ahout the twins. First about them -- They are thriving, they both look like their papa, both have his angelic disposition. Sax pounds each at birth is my guess, but, although they were weighed, weights here mean nothing to me. Me? I'm a prize cow, dearest. No trouble at all -- and the care I received (and am receiving) is fantastically good. I started to labor, was given something to drink, never hurt again at all although I remember all details of having two babies -- as if it had happened to somebody else. So trouble free and actually every day and twice on Sundays. And would, if the rewards were as nice as little Hugh and Karl Joseph. As for the rest since then, boring except for our fine boys, but I'm learning the language as fast as I can. And somebody should tell the Borden company about me -- which is good, as our scamps are greedy eaters. I'm even able to help out the girl in the next bed who is rather short on milk. Just call me Elsie. I'll be patient. I'm not the least surprised at your new honors; I expect you'll be bossing the place in a month. I have confidence in my man. My husband. Such a beautiful word -- As for Kitten, I don't believe a word of your Boy Scout assertions, my lecherous darling; your record shows that you take instant advantage of Innocent young girls. And she's awfully cute. Seriously, dearest, I know how noble you are about such things and I didn't have an evil-minded thought. But I would not blame you if your nobility slipped a little -- especially as I've picked up enough words to be aware of her odd category in this strange place. I mean, Kitten is not vulnerable and can't go set. If you did slip, I would not be jealous -- not much, anyhow -- but I would not want it to become a habit. Not to the exclusion of me, at least; my hormones seem to be rearranging themselves very rapidly and I'm not that noble. But I don't want you to get rid of her when she is our only way of communicating. Be nice to her; she's a nice kid. But you would anyway, you're always nice to everyone. I will write everyday. And I will cry in my pillow and be worried to death any day I don't hear from you. My love forever and forever, B. P.S. The smear on the bottom is little Hugh's right footprint. Hugh kissed the letter, then got quickly into bed, clutching it. Kitten did not wake. Hugh slept soundly. H ugh found learning to read and write Language not difficult. Spelling was phonetic, with a sign for every sound. There were no silent letters and never any question about spelling or pronunciation. Accent was always on the penultima unless marked; the system was as free from traps as Esperanto. He found that he could sound out any word as soon as he had learned the #-letter alphabet, and that, with a little thought, he coqld spell any word he could pronounce. Writing and printing were alike, both cursive, and a printed page looked like one written by a skilled penman. He was not surprised to find that the writing-printing looked like Arabic and a search in the Britannica confirmed that the alphabet must have derived (with many changes) from Arabic of his time. Half a dozen letters had not changed; some others were similar although changed. But there were many new letters to cover the expansion into a system of one sound, one sign -- plus letters for sounds XXth century Arabic had never used. Careful search in the Britannica convinced him that Arabic, French and Swahili were the main roots of Language, plus Uncle alone knew what else. But he could not confirm this. An unabridged dictionary of language, one with derivations, such as he had been used to for English, apparently did not exist -- and his teachers seemed convinced that Language had always been just as they knew it. The concept of change baffled them. No matter, it was only of intellectual interest; Hugh knew neither Arabic, French nor Swahili. He had learned a little Latin and less German in high school, and had struggled to learn Russian in his later years when it appeared that, win or lose, Russian might be useful. He was not equipped to study the roots of language, he was merely curious. Nor did he dare spend much time on it. He wanted to please Their Charity, butter him up thoroughly so that he might, eventually, petition the boon of seeing Barbara -- and that meant a flood of translated articles. Hugh consistently worked very hard at it. The second day after his elevar tion, Hugh asked for Duke and Memtok promptly sent for him. Duke was rather worn down -- there were lines in his face -- but he spoke Language. Duke spoke it not as well as his father did and apparently had tangled with his teachers more than Hugh had; his mood seemed to oscillate between utter hopelessness and reckless rebellion, and he was limping badly on his left leg. Memtok made no objection to transferring Duke to the Department of Ancient History. "Glad to get rid of him. He's too monstrous big for stud, yet he doesn't seem to be good for anything else. Certainly, put him to work. I can't bear to see a servant lying around, eating his head off, and doing nothing." So Hugh took him along. Duke looked over Hugh's private apartment and said, "Christ! You certainly managed to come up smelling like a rose. How come?" IF H ugh explained the situation. "So what I want you to do is to translate legal articles and related subjects -- whatever you can do best. We don't have to start at 'A and work through to 'Z' -- alphabetical by our alphabet means nothing. I'm going to work up a subject index instead. But that's not your worry. You'll just sit and dictate translations into a recorder cone." Duke shoved his fists together and looked stubborn. "You can stuff it." "Duke, don't take that attitude. This is an opportunity." "For you, maybe. What are you doing about Mother?" "What can I do? I'm not allowed to see her, neither are you. You know that. But Joe assures me that she is not only comfortable and well treated, but happy." "So he says. Or so you say he says. I want to see it myself. I damn well insist on it." "Very well, insist on it. Go see Memtok about it. But I must warn you, I can't protect you from him." "Rats. I know what that slimy little bastard would say -- and what he would be likely to do." Duke scowled and rubbed his injured leg. "It's up to you to arrange it. You've got such an unholy drag around here, the least you can do with it is to use it to protect Mother." "Duke, I don't have that sort of drag. I'm being pampered for the same reason a race horse is pampered... and I have just as little control over it as a race horse has over when and how he will race. But I can cut you in on some pampering if you cooperate. Decent quarters, immunity from mistreatment, a pleasant place to work -- easy work, really! But I can no more get you into women's quarters, or have Grace sent here, than I can go to the Moon. They have harem rules here, as you know." "And you are content to sit here and be a trained seal for that ape, and neglect Mother? Count me out!" "Duke, I won't argue. I'll assign you a room to work in and send you a volume of the Britannica each day. Then it's up to you. If you won't work, I'll try to keep Memtok from knowing it. But I rather think he has spies all over the place." Hugh let it go at that. At first he got no help out of Duke. Hugh ignored it and pretended that Duke was working. But in time boredom worked where argument had failed; Duke could not stand to be shut up in a featureless room with nothing to do. He was not locked up but he did not venture out much because there was always the chance that he might run into Memtok, or some other whip-carrying upper servant who might want to know where he was going, what he was doing, and why. Servants were expected to look busy even if they weren't from morning prayer to evening prayer. Duke began to produce translations and, with them, a complaint that he was short on vocabulary. Hugh made inquiries and was able to have assigned to him a tempered clerk who had worked as a stenographer in Their Charity's many legal affairs. But he rarely saw Duke. It seemed to be the only way they could stay out of arguments. Duke's output speeded up after the first week but fell off in quality -- Duke had discovered the sovereign power of "Happiness." Hugh considered warning Duke about the drug, decided against it. If it kept Duke contented in captivity, who was he to deny him this anoJvne? The poor quality of Duke's translations, those Hugh had cheeked, did not worry Hugh; Their Charity had no way to judge -- unless Joe rendered an opinion, which seemed unlikely. He himself v as not trying too hard to turn out good translation. "Not good, but Wednesday" was the principle he used: Give the boss lucid copy in great quantity -- and leave out the hard parts. Besides, Hugh had found that a couple of drinks of "Happiness" at dinner topped the day off nicely. It allowed him to read Barbara's daily letter in a warm glow, write a cheerful answer for Kitten to carry back the next morning, then to bed and sound sleep. B ut Hugh did not use much of it; he was afraid of the stuff. Alcohol, he reasoned, had the advantage of being a poison. It gave fair warning by exacting hangovers if one started drinking heavily. But this stuff, as Memtok had said, exacted no such price; it merely turned anxiety, depression, worry, boredom, any unpleasant emotion, into an uncritical happy glow. Hugh wondered if it was. principally methyl meprobamate? But he knew little chemistry and that little was two thousand years behind the times. As a member of the executive servants mess he was not rationed; he could have all he wanted. But Hugh noted that Memtok was not the only boss who used the stuff most abstemiously. A man did not fight his way up in the servants' hierarchy by dulling himself with drugs -- but sometimes a servant did get high up, then skidded all the way to the bottom, unable to stand prosperity in the form of an unrationed supply of "Happiness." Hugh never learned what became of them. Hugh could even keep a bottle in his rooms -- and that solved the problem of Kitten. Hugh had decided not to ask for a separate bed for Kitten; he did not want to rub Memtok's nose in the fact that he was using the child only as a go-between to women's quarters. Instead he required the girl to make up a bed each night on the comfortable divan in his living room. Kitten was very hurt by this. By now she was sure that Hugh could make better use of a bedwarmer and she regarded it as rebuke to her in her honorable capacity as comfort and solace -- and it scared her. If her master did not like her, she might lose the best job she had ever been assigned. (She did not dare report to Memtok that Hugh had no use for her as a bedwarmer; she gave full reports on every point but that.) She wept. She could not have done better; Hugh Farnham had been a sucker for women's tears all his life. He took her on his knee and consoled her, and explained that he liked her very much (true), that it was a sad, sad thing but he was too old properly to appreciate a female bedmate IF (a lie), and that he slept badly and was disturbed by having anyone in bed with him (a half-truth) -- and that he was entirely satisfied with her and wanted her to go on working for him. "Now wipe your eyes and have a drink of this." He knew that she used the stuff. She chewed her ration like bubble gum -- chewing gum it was in fact; the powder was added to chicle and most of the servants preferred it that way because they could go dreamily through the day, chewing it while they worked. Kitten passed her empty days chewing it and chewed the played-out cud in Hugh's quarters after she learned he did not mind. So he did not hesitate to give her a drink of it. Kitten went happily to bed and right to sleep that night, no longer worried that her master might get rid of her. That set a precedent. Each evening, about half an hour before Hugh wanted the lights out, he would give her a short drink of it. F or awhile he kept track of the level in the bottle. Kitten was often in his quarters when he was not, he knew how very much she enjoyed it, and there were no locks in his quarters. His rank entitled him to locks but he did not know this; Memtok had carefully not told him. He quit bothering when he was convinced that Kitten was not snitching it. In fact, Kitten would have been terrified at the thought of stealing from her master. Her ego was barely big enough for a timid mouse; she was less than nothing and knew it and had never owned anything, riot even a name, until Hugh gave her one. Under his kindness she was beginning to be a person, but it was still the faintest flicker. Anything could blow it out. She would no more have risked stealing from him than she would Hugh, half by intent, encouraged her confidence in other ways. She was a trained bath girl, Japanese style; he gave in and' let her scrub his back and handle the nozzles for his bath, dress him, and take care of his clothes. She was a masseuse, too. He sometimes found it pleasant to have his head and neck rubbed after a day spent poring over the fine print in the encyclopedia or following the lines in a scroll reader -- and she was pathetically anxious to do anything to make herself necessary to him. "Kitten, what do you do in the daytime?" "Why, nothing mostly. Sluts of my subcaste mostly don't have to work if they have night duty. Since I'm having night duty every night I'm allowed to stay in the sleep room until midday. So I do, even if I'm not sleepy, because the slutmaster is likely to put one to work if he catches one just wandering around. Afternoons -- well, mostly I try to stay out of sight. That's best. Safest." "I see. Well, you can hide out in here if you like. Or can you do that?" Her face lit up. "If you give me a pass, I can." "All right, I will. You can watch television -- no, it's not on at that hour. Mmm, you don't know how to read. Or do you?" "Oh, no, sir! I wouldn't dare petition." "Hmm." Hugh was aware that permission to learn to read could not be granted even by Memtok; it required Their Charity's permission and was granted only after investigation of the necessity. Furthermore, anything he did that was out of line jeopardized his thin chances of reunion with Barbara. But -- damn it, a man had to be a man! "There are plenty of scrolls in here and a reader I don't use in the daytime. Do you want to learn?" "Uncle protect us!" "Don't swear. If you want to learn -- and can keep your pretty little mouth shut about it. I'll teaah you. Don't look so damned scared! You don't have to decide now. Tell me later. Just don't talk about it. To anyone." Kitten did not. That made two matters which she did not report to the Chief Domestic. It scared her not to report it, but she had a reflex for self-preservation and felt without knowing why that to report this would endanger her happy setup. Kitten became substitute family life for Hugh. She sent him to work cheerful, greeted him with a smile when he came back, talked if he wanted to talk and never spoke unless spoken to. Most evenings she curled up iri front of the television -- Hugh thought of it as "the television" and called it by an equivalent word in Language, and it was in fact closed-circuit television under principles not known to him, in color, in three dimensions, and without lines, no I t played every evening in the servants' main hall, from evening prayer until lights-out, to a packed house, and there were outlets in the apartments of executive servants. Hugh had watched it a number of evenings, expecting to gain insight into this strange society he must learn to live in. It took him four evenings to decide that one might as well try to study the United States he had known by watching Gunsmoke. It was the most blatant of melodrama, with acting as stylized as Chinese theater, and the favorite plot seemed to be that of the faithful servant who dies gloriously that his lord may live. The only good thing Hugh could see about it was that it had no commercials -- and that was an accidental virtue: Servants had no money to spend. But it was only second in importance to Happiness in the morale of life below stairs. Kitten loved it. She would watch it, snapping her gum monotonously, and sometimes suppressing squeals of excitement, as Hugh read -- then sigh happily when the program ended, accept her little drink of Happiness with profuse thanks and a touch of her forehead, and go quietly to sleep when told to. Hugh sometimes went on reading. He read a great deal -- every evening (unless Memtok stopped in to visit) and half of every day. He begrudged the time he spent translating for Their Charity but never neglected it; it was the hopeful key to better things. He had found it necessary to do research into modIF cm culture if he was to translate matters of ancient history intelligibly. The Summer Palace had a fair library. He was given access to it when he claimed the necessity for his work -- Memtok arranged it. But his true purpose was not translation but to try to understand what, in the name of all that was holy, had happened to his world to produce this world. So he usually had a scroll in the reader, either in his office, or in his living room. The scroll system of printing he found admirable; it mechanized the oldest form of book into a system far more efficient than bound leaves and boards -- drop the double cylinder into the reader, flip it on, and hold still. The letters raced across in front of his eyes like letters chasing their way around the Times building -- several hundred feet at a whack, to the end of the scroll. Then the scroll flipped over and chased back the following line, which was printed upside down to the one just scanned. The eye wasted no time flipping back and forth at a stacked column of lines. By a slight pressure the gadget speeded up to whatever the brain could accept. As Hugh got used to the phonetics he acquired a speed faster than he had ever managed in English. But he did not find what he was looking for. Somewhere in the past the distinctions between fact, fiction, history and religious writings seemed to have been rubbed out. Even when he got it clear that the East-West War that had bounced him and his out of their own century was now dated # B.C. (Before the Great Change), he still had trouble matching the world he had known with the "history" set forth in these scrolls. T he war itself he didn't find hard to believe. He had experienced only a worm's-eye view of the first few hours but what the scrolls related matched well enough the possibilities: a missile and bomb holocaust that had escalated in its strike" and "massive retaliation" and smeared cities from Peiping to Chicago, Toronto to Smolensk, fire storms that had done ten times the damage the bombs did, nerve gas and other poisons that had picked up where fire left off, plagues that were incubating when the shocked survivors were picking themselves up and beginning to hope -- plagues that did not stop, diseases that were going strong when fallout was no longer deadly. Yes, he could believe that. The bright boys had made it possible. And the dull boys they worked for had not only never managed to make the possibility unlikely but had never really believed it when the bright boys delivered what the dull boys had ordered. Not, he reminded himself, that he had ever believed in "Better red than dead" -- or believed in it now. The aggression had been one-sided as hell. He did not regret a single megaton of the "massive retaliation." But there it was. The scrolls said that it had killed off the whole northern world. ill But how about the rest of it? It says here that the United States, at the time of the war, held its black population as slaves. Somebody had chopped out a century there. On purpose? Or was it honest confusion and almost no records? There had been, he knew, a great bookburning for two centuries during the Turmoil, and even after the Change. Was it lost history, like Crete? Or did the priests like it better this way? And since when were the Chinese classed as "white" and the Hindus classed as "black"? Yes, yes, purely on skin color Chinese and Japanese were as light as the average "white" of his time, and Hindus were certainly as dark as most Africans. But t was not the accepted anthropological ordering, reflected in the vulgar terms "white" and "colored" in his day. Of course, if all they meant was skin shade -- and apparently that was what they did mean -- he couldn't argue. But the rest of the story maintained that the whites, with their evil ways, killed each other off, destroyed each other almost to the last man... leaving the innocent, charitable, merciful dark race -- beloved by Uncle the Mighty -- to inherit the Earth. The few white survivors, spared by Uncle's mercy, had been succored and cherished as children and now again were waxing numerous under the benevolent guidance of the Chosen. So it read. IT ?gh could see that a war I A which had smeared all of North America, all of Europe, all of Asia except India, could kill off most whites and almost all Chinese. But what had happened to the white minority in South America, the whites of the Union of South Africa, and all the Australians and New Zealanders? Search as he would, Hugh could not find out. All that seemed certain was that the Chosen were all equipped with built-in sunburns whereas servants were palefaces -- and usually small. Hugh and his son towered over the other servants. Contrariwise, the few dozen Chosen he had seen were big men. If the present day whites were descended from Australians, mostly -- No, couldn't be. Aussies had not been runts. And those "Expeditions of Mercy" -- were they slave raids? Or pogroms? Or both? Or, literally, as the scrolls said, rescue missions for survivors? The Bookburnings might account for these discrepancies. It wasn't clear to Hugh whether all books had been put to the torch, or possibly technical books had been spared -- for it was clear that the Chosen had technology superior in all the ways that he had seen to that of his time; it seemed unlikely that they had started from scratch and gone still farther. Or was it unlikely? All the science and technology of his own time that had amounted to a damn had been less than five, hundred years old, most of it less than a hundred, and the most amazing parts not more than a generation old. Could the world have gone back to the dark ages, then pulled out of it and more, in a span of two thousand years? IF Of course it could! he thought. Either way, the Koran was the only book officially exempt from the torch during many years of the Turmoil -- and Hugh harbored a suspicion that the Koran had not been exempt either. He had owned an English translation of the Koran, had read it with deep interest several times. He wished now that he had put it into the shelter, for the Koran as he now read it in "Language" did not match his memory. For one thing, he had thought that Mahomet Was a redheaded Arab. This "Koran" mentioned his skin color re peatedly, as black. And he was sure that the Koran was free of racism, that was one of many things he had like about it. This "improved" version was rabid with it. Furthermore, this Koran had a new testament with a martyred Messiah -- or "prophet" might be a better word. He had taught and he had been hanged for it -- religious scrolls were all marked with a gallows. Hugh did not object to a new testament. There had been plenty of time for a new revelation and religions usually had them, as naturally as a cat has kittens. What he objected to was some revisionist (or many) working over the words of the first prophet, apparently (it seemed to him) to make them fit this new book. That wasn't fair, that was cheating. Hugh gave up trying to sort facts from fables. Perhaps old Ponse would feel mellow enough to discuss it someday. The social organization, as shown by the scrolls, he found almost as puzzling. H was beginning to get a picture of a complex culture, stable, even static. High technology, few innovations, smooth, efficient -- and decadent. Church and State were one -- "One Tongue, One King, One People, One God." The Lord Proprietor was both sovereign and supreme priest and owned everything under Uncle's  grant, and the Lords Protector such as Ponse were merely his bishops and held only fiefs. Yet there were plenty of private citizens (Chosen, of course -- a white was not a person), private shopkeepers, landowners, professional men, etc. A setup for an absolute totalitarian communism, yet streaked through and through with what appeared to be private enterprise. Hell, there were even corporations if he understood what he was reading. T he most interesting point to Hugh (aside from the dismal fact that his own status was fixed by law and custom at zero) was the inheritance system. Family was everything, yet marriage was almost nothing -- present but not important. Descent was always through the female line -- but power was exercised by males. This confused Hugh until it suddenly all fell into place. Ponse was Lord Protector because he was eldest son of an eldest daughter -- whose oldest brother had been lord protector of this fief before Ponse. Ponse's heir therefore was his oldest sister's oldest son. Descent of title went down through mother and endlessly with secular power vested in the oldest brother of each of these female heirs. It did not matter who Ponse's father was and it mattered even less what sons he had. None of them could inherit, no matter what. Ponse inherited from his mother's brother; his heir was his sister's son. Hugh could see that, under this system, marriage would never be important -- and bastardy might be a concept so abstract as to be unrecognized -- but family would be more important than ever. Women (of the Chosen) could never be downgraded under it. They were more important than males even though they ruled through deputies, their brothers. And the religion recognized this; the One God, Uncle the Mighty, had an elder sister, the Eternal Mamaloi... so sacred that she was not prayed to and her name was never used in cursing. She was never mentioned. She was just there , the Eternal Female Principle that gave it all life and being. Hugh had a feeling that he had read about this sort of matrilineal descent before, uncle to nephew through the female line, and he searched the Britannica for it. Then he was surprised to discover that the setup, or features of it, had prevailed at one time or another in every continent and most cultures. The Great Change had been when Mamaloi had at last suceeded -- working indirectly, as always -- in uniting all Her children under one roof and placing their Uncle in charge of them. Then She could rest. Hugh's comment was: "And God help the human race!" Hugh kept expecting Their Charity to send for him. But two months passed and he did not, and Hugh was beginning to fret that he would never have a chance to ask to see Barbara. Apparently Ponse had no interest in him as long as he kept on grinding out translations. Translating the Britannica looked to Hugh like a job for several lifetimes; he resolved to stir things up, so he sent one day's batch with a letter to Their Charity. A week later the Lord Protector sent for him. Memtok came for Hugh, dancing with impatience but insisting that Hugh at least wash his armpits, rub himself with deodorant cream and put on a clean robe. The Lord Protector did not seem to care how Hugh smelled. He let him stand several minutes while he did something else. Hugh stood in silence... although Grace was present. She was lounging on a divan, playing with cats and chewing gum. She glanced at Hugh, then ignored him, save that her face took on a secret smile that Hugh knew too well -- he called it "canary that ate the cat." Dr. Livingstone I Presume greeted Hugh, jumping down from the divan, coming over and rubbing against his ankles. Hugh knew that he should ignore it, wait for the lord to recognize his presence -- but this cat had been his friend a long time; he could not snub it. He bent down and stroked the cat. The skies did not split, Their Charity ignored the breach. Presently the Lord Protector said, IF "Yes, boy, come here. Now what's chose.' Hugh, you aren't just sniffthis about making money from your ing Happiness. Things are the same translations? What in Uncle ever now. Well? What's your idea? Spit gave you the notion I needed monit out." ey?" Hugh had got the notion from Memtok. The Chief Domestic had growled about how difficult it was to run things, with pennypinching from on high getting worse every year. "May it please Their Charity, this one's opinions are of no value, it is true, but -- " "Cut the flowery talk, damn you!" "Ponse, I haven't any idea how things are here. But back where -- when -- I came from there never was a man so rich but what he needed more money. Usually, the richer he was, the more he needed." The lord grinned ruefully. " 'Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme "It seems to me that there are things in your encyclopedia which might be turned to a profit. Processes and other thing that have been lost in the last two thousand years -- but might be worth money now." "All right, do it. The stuff you send up is satisfactory, what I've had time to read. But some of it is trivial. 'Smith, John, born and died -- a politician who did nothing much and did that little poorly. Know what I mean?" "I think so, Ponse." "All right, skip that garbage and dig me up four or five juicy ideas I can cash in on." #I # Hugh hesitated. Ponse said, "Well? Didn't you understand?" "I think I need help. You see, I don't know anything, anything at all, really, except what goes on below stairs. I thought Joe might help." "How?" "I understand that he has traveled some with you, seen things. And he reads English. He is more likely to be able to pick out subjects that merit study. He could pick the articles, I will translate them, and you can judge whether or not here is anything to exploit. I can synopsize them, too, so that you needn't waste your time wading through details if the subject doesn't merit it." "Good idea. I'm sure Joe will be happy to help. All right, send up the encyclopedia. All." Hugh was dismissed so abruptly that he had no chance to mention Barbara. But, he reflected, he could not have risked it with Grace present. He considered digging out Duke, telling him that his mother was fat and happy -- both literally -- but decided against it. He wasn't sure how pleased Duke would be with a truthful report, and wanted no argument. They didn't see eye to eye and that was that. XV Y oe sent  back down a volume almost every day for many days, with pages marked and articles checked; Hugh slaved very hard to try to keep up with him, and to make really useful translations. After two weeks of this Hugh was again sent for. He expected a conference over some business idea. What he found was Ponse, Joe, and a Chosen he had never seen. Hugh instantly prepared to speak protocol mode, rising. The Lord Protector said. "Come here, Hugh. Cut the cams. And don't start any of that tiresome formality, this is all family. Private." Hugh hesitantly approached. The other Chosen, a big dark man with a permanent scowl, didn't seem pleased at the idea. He was carrying his quirt and twitched it. But Joe looked up and smiled. "I've been teaching them contract, Hugh, and our usual fourth had to be away. I've been telling Ponse that you are the best player any where or when. So don't let me down." "I'll try not to." Hugh recognized one deck of cards, they had once been his. The other deck appeared to be handpainted on plastic and were quite beautiful. The table was the right height and size, but was not from the shelter; fabulous hand craftsmanship had gone into it. The cut made Hugh partner of the strange Chosen. Hugh tried not show how nervous it made him, especially as his partner clearly did not like it. But the Chosen grunted and accepted it. His partner's contract at three spades -- by a fluke distribution they made four. His partner growled, "Boy, you underbid, you wasted game. Don't let it happen again." Hugh kept quiet and dealt. On the next hand Joe and Ponse made five clubs. Hush's partner was furious -- at Hugh. "If you had led IF diamonds, we would have set them! And you washed out our leg. I warned you. Now I'm -- " "Mrika!" Ponse said sharply. "This is contract. Play it as such. And put that tickler out of reach. The servant played correctly." "It did not! And I'm damned if I care for the idea of letting it in the game anyhow. I can smell the rank, sharp stink of a buck servant no matter how much it's scrubbed. And I don't think this one is scrubbed at all." Hugh felt sweat breaking out in his armpits and flinched. But Ponse said evenly, "Very well, we excuse you. You may leave." "That suits me!" The Chosen stood up. "Just one thing before I go. If you don't quit stalling, Their Mercy will let the Northwestern Protectorate -- " "Are you planning to put up the money?" Their Charity said sharply. "Me? It's a Family matter. Not but what I wouldn't jump at the chance if I could beg, borrow, or scrape up the bullocks. Forty million hectares and more, and most of it in prime timber -- of course I would! But I hardly have one bullocks to jingle against another -- and you know why." "Certainly we know why. You gamble."  "Oh, come now! A businessman has to take chances. You can't call it gambling When -- " "We do call it gambling. We do not object to gambling but we have a vast distaste for losing. If you must lose, you will do it with your own bullocks." "But this isn't gambling, it's a sure thing -- as well as getting us in solid with Their Mercy. The Family -- " "We will decide what is good for the Family. For a while longer at least. Your turn will come soon enough. In the meantime we are as anxious to please the Lord Proprietor as you are. But not with bullocks the Family doesn't have in the treasury." "You could borrow it. The interest would only come to -- " "You wanted to leave, Mrika. We note that you have left." Ponse picked up cards and began to shuffle them. The younger Chosen snorted and left. P onse laid out a solitaire game, started to play. Presently he said to Joe, "Sometimes that young man gets me so annoyed that I would happily change my will." Joe looked puzzled. "I thought you could not disinherit him?" "Oh, no, no!" Their Charity looked shocked. "Not even a peasant can do that. Where woulds we be if there were no stability here on Earth? I wouldn't dream of it, even if the law permitted it; he's my heir. I was just thinking of the servants." Joe said, "I don't follow you." "Why you know -- No, perhaps you don't. I keep forgetting that you didn't grow up among us. My will disposes of anything personally mine. Not much I grant you -- jewelry, scrolls, such. Value probably household servants. Just the household, I'm not talking about servants in mines or on ranches, or in our shipping lines. It's customary to list all household servants in a will -- otherwise they escort their uncle." He grinned. "It would be a good joke on Mrika if he suddenly learned that he was going to have to find the money somewhere to adopt fifteen hundred, two thousand servants -- or shut up the house and live in a tent. I can just see that. Why, I doubt if he knows how to put on his own boots. Hugh, if you tell me to put the black lady on the red lord, I'll tingle you, I promise. I'm not in a good mood." Hugh said hastily, "Did you miss a play? I hadn't noticed." "Then why were you staring at the cards?" Hugh had indeed been staring at the game, trying his best to be invisible. He had been made very nervous by witnessing a quarrel between Ponse and his nephew. He hoped never to see the younger Chosen again -- the man might remember him. But he had missed not a word, he found it extremely interesting. Ponse went on, "Which would you prefer, Hugh? To escort me to Heaven? Or stay here and serve Mrika? Don't answer too quickly. If you stay here, I venture you may be eating your ovn toes to stay your hunger before I'm gone a year... whereas Heaven is a very nice place, so the Good Scroll tells us." "It's a hard choice." "Well, you don't have to make it, nor will you know. A servant should never know, it keeps him on his toes. That scoundrel Memtok keeps praying me for the honor of being in my escort. If I thought he was sincere, I would dismiss him for incompetence. But he isn't." Ponse swept the cards together, having reached a block. "Damn that lad! He's poor company but I had my liver set on a few good, hard rubbers. Joe, we've got to teach more people to play contract. Being left without a fourth is annoying." "Certainly," agreed Joe. "Right now?" "No, no. I want to play, damn it, not watch some beginner bumble through it. I'm growing addicted to it. Takes a man's worries off his mind." H ugh was hit by inspiration. "Ponse, if you don't mind having another servant in the game... Joe brightened up. "Why, of course! He -- " "Barbara," Hugh cut in fast, before Joe could mention Duke. Joe blinked. Then he smoothly picked where he had left off. "He -- Hugh, I mean -- was about to mention a servant named Barbara. Good bridge player." "Well! You've been teaching this game below stairs, Hugh?" Ponse added, " 'Barbara'? A name I don't recognize. Not one of the upper servants, I'm sure." "You remember her," Joe said. "She was with us when you picked us up. The tall one." "Oh, yes. Bigging, it was. But, Joe, are you telling me that a slut can play this game?" "She's a top player," Joe assured him. "Plays better than I do. Heavens, Ponse, she can play rings around you. Isn't that right, Hugh?" "Barbara is an excellent player." "This I must see to believe." A few minutes later Barbara, IF freshly bathed and scared, was fetched in. She glanced at Hugh, looked startled silly, opened her mouth, closed it, and stood mute. Ponse came up to her. "So this is the slut who is supposed to be able to play contract. Stop trembling, little one; nobody's going to eat you." In a few bluff words, confirmed by Joe, he convinced her that she was there to play bridge and that she was expected to relax and be informal -- no fancy talk. "Just behave as if you were downstairs, having a good time with other servants. Hear me?" "Yes, sir." "Just one thing." He tapped her on her chest. "When you're my partner, I shan't be angry if you make a mistake or two. After all, you're only a slut and it's surprising that you can play an intellectual game at all. But -- " He paused. "But... when you are playing against me, if you fail to fight for every trick, if I even suspect that you are trying to let me win, I guarantee you'll tingle when you leave. Understand me?" "That's right," agreed Joe. "Their Charity expects it. You just play by the book, and play your best." " 'Play by the book,' " Ponse repeated. "I've never seen this book Joe talks about but that's the way Joe says he has taught me to play. So do it. All right, let's cut the cards." Hugh hardly listened, he was drinking in the sight of Barbara. She looked well and healthy although it was startling to see her slender again -- or almost slender, he corrected; she was still largish in the fanny and certainly in the bust. She had lost most of her tan and was dressed in the shapeless short robe that all female servants wore below stairs, but he was delighted to see that she had not had her hair removed. It was close cropped but it could grow back. He noticed that his own appearance seemed to startle her, realized why. He said, smiling, "Yes, I comb my hair with a washrag now, Barbie. No matter, I didn't have enough left to be more than a nuisance. Now that I'm used to being hairless, I like it." "You look distinguished, Hugh." "He's ugly as sin," said Ponse. "But are we chatting? Or playing bridge? Your bid, Barba." T hey played bridge for hours. As it progressed, Barbara seemed to relax and enjoy it. She smiled a great deal, usually at Hugh, but also at Joe and even at Their Charity. She played by the book and Ponse never found fault with her. Hugh decided that their host was a good run-of-the-mill player, not yet perfect in his play -- but he was smart, always remembered what cards had been played, and usually bid quite accurately, by the book. Hugh found him a satisfactory partner and an adequately strong opponent; it was a good game. But once, with Barbara as Ponse's partner and contract in her hand, Hugh saw as soon as Ponse laid down the dummy that Ponse had overbid in his answer by at least one trick. So he contrived to play so that he lost one sure trick, thereby letting Barbara make contract, game, and rubber. It got him a glance with ro expression from Barbara and Joe gave him a look that had a suggestion of a twinkle in it, but Joe kept his mouth shut. Ponse did not notice. He gave a bass roar of satisfaction, reached across and patted Barbara's head. "Wonderful, wonderful! Little one, you really can play contract. Why, I doubt if I could have made that one myself." Nor did Ponse complain when, on the next rubber, Barbara and Hugh gave him and Joe a trouncing. Hugh decided that Ponse had the inborn honesty sometimes called "sportsmanship" -- plus quite a good head for cards. One of the little deaf-mutes trotted in, knelt, and served Their Charity a tumbler of something cold, then another to Joe. Ponse took a long swig, wiped his mouth and said, "Ah, that hits the spot!" Joe made a quiet, almost wlrispercd suggestion to him. Ponse looked startled and said, "Oh, certainly. Why not?" So Hugh and Barbara were served, too. Hugh was pleased to discover that it was just cold apple juice; he wasn't sure of his ability to play tight bridge had it been Happiness." During this rubber Hugh noticed that Barbara was squirming a little and seemed to have trouble in concentrating. When the hand ended he said quietly, "Trouble, hon?" She glanced at Ponse and whispered quickly, "Some. I was about to feed the boys when I was sent for." "Oh." Hugh turned to his host. "Ponse, Barbara needs to stop." Ponse looked up from shuffling. "Plumbing call! One of the maids can show it, I suppose. They must go somewhere." "Not that. Well, maybe that, too. But what I meant was, Barbara has twins." "Well? Sluts usually have twins, they have two breasts. What do you expect?" "That's the point, she's nursing them and she's hours past time for it. She has to leave." Ponse looked annoyed, hesitated, then said, "Oh, garbage. Its milk won't cake from so short a delay. Here, cut the cards." Hugh did not touch them. Ponse said, "Didn't you hear me?" Hugh stood up. His heart was beating very fast and he felt a shudder of fear. "Ponse, Barbara hurts. She needs to nurse her twins right now. I may not be able to force you to let her -- but if you think I'll play cards with you while you don't let her, you're crazy." F or long moments the big man simply stared, without expression. Then suddenly he grinned. "Hugh I like you, I really do. You did something like this once before, didn't you? The slut is your sister, I suppose." "No." "Then you are the one who is crazy. Do you know how close you came to being cold meat?" "I can guess." "I doubt it, you don't look worried. But I like spunk, even .in a servant. Very well, I'll have its brats fetched. They can be fed while we play." IF The twins were fetched and Hugh saw at once that they were the most perfect, handsomest, healthiest and loveliest boy babies that had ever been born; he told Barbara so. But he did not immediately get a chance to touch them as Ponse took one in each arm, laughed at them, blew in their faces and jiggled them. "Fine boys!" he roared. "Fine boys, Barba! Holy little terrors, I'll bet. Go on, swing that fist, kid! Sock Uncle in the nose again. What do you call them, Barba? Do they have names?" "This one is Hugh -- " "Eh? Does Hugh have something to do with them? Or thinks he has, perhaps?" "He's their father." "Well, well! Hugh, you may be ugly, but you have other qualities. If Barba knows what she's talking about. And. what's this one's name?" "That one is little Joe. Karl Joseph." Ponse lifted an eyebrow at Joe. "So you have sluts naming brats for you, eh, Joe? I'll have to watch you, you're a sly one. What did you give Barba?" "Beg pardon?" "Birthing present, you idiot. Nothing? Give her that ring you're wearing. So many brats in this house named after me that I have to order trinkets by the basket load; they all know it obliges me to make them a present. Hugh here is lucky, he has nothing to give. Hey, Hughie has teeth already." Hugh got to hold them for a moment while they settled down for combined bridge and nursing. Barbara took them one at a time and played cards with her free hand. The little maids fussed over the one not nursing and, in due time, took them away. In spite of the handicap Barbara managed to play well, even with Ponse top scorer, Barbara close behind, and Joe and Hugh tied for anchor position. Hugh had cheated very little to make it come out that way; the cards had favored Ponse and Barbara when they were partners; they had made two small slams, the only slams of the session. Ponse was feeling very jovial about it. "Barba, come here, little one. You tell the slutmaster that I said to find a wet nurse for your brats and that I want the vet to dry you up as soon as possible, heat me? I want you available as my bridge partner. Or opponent -- you give a man a tough fight." "Yes, sir. May one speak?" "One may." "I would rather nurse them myself. They're all I have." "Well -- " He shrugged. "This seems to be my day for balky servants. I'm afraid you are both still savages at heart. A tingling wouldn't do you any harm, slut. All right, but you'll have to play one-handed sometimes; I won't have brats stopping the game." He grinned. "Besides, I'd like to see the little rascals occasionally, especially that one that bites. You may go. All." B arbara was dismissed so suddenly that Hugh barely had time to exchange smiles with her. He had hoped to walk down with her, steal a little private visit. But His Charity did not dismiss him, so he stayed -- with a warm glow in his heart; it had been the happiest time he had had in a long time. Ponse discussed the articles he had been translating, why none of them offered practical new business ventures. "But don't fret about it, Hugh. Keep plugging away and we'll strike ore yet." He turned the talk to other matters, still kept Hugh there. Hugh found him a knowledgeable conversationalist, interestten as he was to talk. He seemed to Hugh the epitome of the perfect decadent gentleman -- urbane, cosmopolitan, disillusioned and cynical, a dilettant in all arts and sciences, neither merciful nor cruel, unimpressed by his own rank, and not racist. At least he treated Hugh as an intellectual equal in private conversation. While they were talking, the little maids came in and served dinner to Ponse and to Joe, at the card table where they had remained. Nothing was offered to Hugh, nor did he expect it -- nor want it, as he could always have meals served in his rooms if he was not on time in the executive servants' dining room and he had long since decided, from several samplings, that Memtok was right: The upper servants ate better than the master. But when Ponse had finished, he shoved his dishes toward Hugh. "Eat." Hugh hesitated a split second; he did not need to be told that he was being honored -- for a servant. There was plenty of food, at least three times as much left as Ponse had eaten. Hugh could not recall that he had ever in his life eaten someone's leavings, and certainly not with a used spoon. But he dug in. As usual, Their Charity's menu did not especially please Hugh -- somewhat greasy and he had no great liking for pork. Pork was hardly ever served below stairs but was often part of the menus Memtok sampled, Hugh had noticed. It surprised him, as the revised Koran these people used still contained the dietary laws and the Chosen did follow some of the original Muslim customs. They practiced circumcision, did not use alcohol other than a thin beer, and observed Ramadan at least nominally and still called it that. Mahomet would have been shocked by the accretions and revisions to his straightforward monotheistic teaching but nevertheless he would have recognized some of the details. But the bread was good, the fruits were superb, and so were the ices and many other things; it wasn't necessary to dine solely on the roast. Hugh kept intact his record for enjoying the inevitable. Ponse was interested in what the climate had been in this region in Hugh's time. "Joe tells me you sometimes had freezing temperatures. Even snow." "Oh, yes, both, every winter." "Fantastic. How cold did it get?" Hugh had to stop to think. He had not yet had occasion to learn how these people marked temperatures. "If you consider the range from freezing of water to its boiling, it was not especially unusual for IF it to get one third of that range lower than freezing." Ponse looked surprised. "Are you sure? We call that range, freezing to boiling, one hundred. Are you telling me that it sometimes got as much as thirty-three degrees below freezing?" Hugh noted with interest that the centigrade scale had survived two millenia -- but no reason why it should not; they used the decimal system in arithmetic and in their money. He had to do a conversion in his head. "Yes, that's exactly what I mean. Nearly cold enough to freeze mercury, and often cold enough for that, up in those mountains." Hugh pointed out a view window. "Cold enough," Joe agreed, "to freeze your teeth! Only thing that ever made me long for Mississippi." "Where," asked Ponse, "is Missisrippi?" "It's not," Joe told him. "It's under water now. And good riddance." r tis led to discussion of why the climate had changed and Their Charity sent for the last volume of the Britannica, containing ancient maps, and for modem maps. They poured over them together. Where the Mississippi Valley had been, the Gulf now reached far north. It was no longer a gulf but part of the Atlantic as Florida and Yucatan were missing and Cuba was a few small islands. California had a central sea and most of northern Canada was gone. Similar shrinkages had taken place elsewhere. The Scandinavian Peninsula was now a great island The British Isles were several small islands. Part of the Sahara was under water. What had been lowlands anywhere were missing -- Holland, Belgium, northern Germany could not be found. Nor Denmark -- the Baltic was a gulf of the Atlantic. Hugh looked at it with odd sorrow and had never felt so homesick. He had known it was so, from reading; this was the first map he had seen of it. "The question," said Ponse, "is whether the melting of the ice was triggered by the explosions and dust of the East-West War, or was it a natural change that was, at most, simply speeded up a little by artificial events? Some of my scientists say one thing, some the other." "What do you think?" asked Hugh. The lord shrugged. "I'm not foolish enough to hold an opinion when I have insufficient data; I'll leave that folly to scientists. I'm simply glad that Uncle saw fit to let me live in an age in which I can go outdoors without freezing my feet. I visited the South Pole once -- I have some mines there. Frost on the ground. Dreadful. The place for ice is in a drink." Ponse went to the view window and stood looking out at the silhouette of mountains against darkening sky. "However, if it got that cold up there now, we would root them out in a hurry. Eh, Joe?" "They would come back with their tails between their legs," Joe agreed. Hugh looked puzzled. "Ponse means," Joe explained, "the runners hiding up in the mountains. What they thought you were when we were found." "Runners and a few aborigines," Ponse supplemented. "Savages. Poor creatures who have never been rescued by civilization. It's very hard to save them, Hugh. They don't stand around in the open and wait to be picked up the way you did. They're as crafty as wolves. Caves and things, and the merest shadow in the sky and they freeze and you can't see them -- and they are very destructive of game. Of course we could smoke them out any number of ways. But that would kill off the game, can't have that. Hugh, you've lived out there in the open; you must have acquired some feel for it. How would you go about resthe game." Mr. Hugh Farnham hesitated only long enough to phrase his reply. "Their Charity knows that this one is a servant. This one's ears must be at fault in thinking that it heard its humble self called on to see the problem as it might appear to the Chosen." "Why, damn your impudence for dodging around it with fancy talk. Hugh, I want your opinion." "You got my opinion, Ponse. I'm a servant I know it, you know it. My sympathies are with the runaways. And the savages. I didn't know. I was dragged." O now? Of course you were captured, even Joe was. But there was language difficulty. Now you've seen the difference. You k now." "Yes. I know," Hugh replied. "Then you certainly know how much your condition has improved. Don't you sleep in a better bed now? Aren't you eating better? Uncle! When we picked you up, you were half starved and infested with vermin. You were barely staying alive with the hardest sort of work, I could see . I'm not blind, I'm not stupid. There isn't a member of my Family down to the lowest and dullest cleaner that works half as hard as you had to, or sleeps in as poor a bed -- and in a stinking little sty; I could hardly bear the stench before we fumigated it. And as for the food, if that is the word, any servant in this house would turn up his nose at what you ate. Right?" "Yes " "Well?" "I prefer freedom." " 'Freedom!' " Their Charity snorted. "A concept without a referent, like 'ghosts.' Meaningless. Hugh, you should study semantics. Modern semantics, I mean; I doubt if they ha'd such a science in your day, really. We are all free -- to walk our appointed paths. Just as a stone is free to fall when you toss it into the air. No one is free in the purely abstract meaning you give the word. Do you think  am free? Free to change places with you, say? Would I if I could? You bet I would! You have no concept of the worries T have, the work I do. Sometimes I lie awake half the night, worrying about which way to turn next -- and you won't find that in servants' hall. They're happy, they have no worries. But I have to carry my burden as best I can." IF Hugh looked stubborn. Ponse came over and put his arm around Hugh's shoulders. "Come, let's sit down and talk this over, judicially, not emotionally -- two civilized beings. I'm not one of those superstitious persons who thinks a man can't think because his skin is pale. Surely you know that. Haven't I respected your intellect?" "Well... yes." "That's better. But I happen to know more about this than you do. Let me explain some things -- Joe has seen them -- and you can ask questions if you need to, and we'll arrive at a rational understanding. First -- Joe, you've seen the Chossen here and there who are what our friend Hugh would, no doubt describe as 'free.' Tell him." Joe snorted. "Hugh, you should see. You would be darn glad to be privileged to live in Ponse's household. There is just one phrase I can think of to describe them. Po' black trash. Like the white trash not knowing where their next meal is coming from." "I follow you." "I think I do, too," agreed Their Charity. "A pungent phrase. 