You came here with your purple friends to steal back your Shield. Your greed and your guilt were combined -- as in my other Westons." He did not want to die, but he saw no way to prevent it. She had taken away his will to resist. Endes Weston must have gone through this same torture three hundred years ago. "Did you turn my ancestor's bones into a boat?" "Yes, I use you all. Perhaps I shall put you beside him." The witch suddenly looked up towards the entrance. She had seen something. Weston turned. In the chamber stood another woman, also a blonde, but dressed in furs. "Hello there," she said. Anna Holm! It was impossible. He had told them not to follow him. But it would have to be Anna, who disobeyed him. Calmly she was walking to them. "Have you come to die too?" asked the witch. "Oh no," said Anna. "I've ceme to give you something." Weston could only stave at her. She put her hand into a pocket and brought something out. It was a small watch. Its ticking was loud in the quiet cave. Anna offered it to the witch. "It's for you. A present from me. Look, it teHs you the time." Time. The watch was ticking away, in a place where time had been forgotten. His own watch had vanished with his weapons. Now here was another. "Put it away," said the witch, drawing back. "No, take it," said Anna. "It's yours. You like treasure. The casing's made of solid gold. Don't you want R?" Tick, tick. Tick, tock. The witch's eyes were fixed on the moving hands. Seconds passed with no other sound. Gold isn't any use to me," said Anna. "You can have it, really." "No," said the witch. "Stop tormenting me!" "If you don't want it, just pick it up and smash it. I won't mind." "I cannot touch your gift. The sight and sound of it are terrible. You have made Time move before me." "What's wrong with that?" "I make Time stand still." "I had an idea you did." nphe second hand went on round and round, marking off the numbers without pause. The witch looked away. "Very well. Go from here, and take your watch away." "And John?" "Take your man as well." Anna caught hold of him. "You heard. Come on!" He was bewildered. "Yes, but -- " He pointed to the Weston Family Shield. Weston hesitated, unable to decide. "Don't!" cried Anna, jerking at his wrist. "Don't spoil everything now! " Anna. Trust Anna. Weston allowed himself to be led away. As he went, he felt the mists inside his head suddenly disappear. "Don't look back," said Anna. "This way." "I know," said Weston. "I'm clear again." "Remember," called the witch, "my son shall conquer you all!" "Come on " said Anna. "Back to the others!" They went running out of the chamber, away from the orange light and into the darkness of the tunnel. Weston had a vision of ice, stretching away in endless wastes across half the world. He ran towards the ice. The pale light of the entrance expanded before him, and suddenly he was out of the cave and in the valley. It was wonderful to have open air around him again. They struggled across the rocky ground to the slope. Anna stumbled on a loose stone; Weston held her firmly. "I'm all right. You can let go of me now." "Not yet. You're the only real thing in the valley." Together he and Anna scrambled up the slope. He saw the captain and the engineers waiting on the skyline. They looked reassuringly solid. They reached down and helped the two of them up onto the ice. Ice, firm and hard, outside the witch's domain. Weston stamped on it, feeling it crunch underneath IF his heel. "Ice," he said "Nothing to beat it." "Look," said the captain. Down in the valley, the witch had come out of the cave. She stood looking up at the little group of people. Weston found Anna's hand again. "This is where we get out for good. I'm not staying here any longer." "An extremely sensible point of view," said Captain Zing. He nodded to the engineers. " Right, aboard the sledge. Back to the ship." The witch was still gazing at them as they sped away. Her face was full of hate. Tt was bitterly cold at the bot tom of the pit. The prisoner sat against the smooth wall, his eyes closed, his breathing slow. Five meters above him was the ice, a circle of blue sky, and nothing else. He did not return to the tunnel. His period of sanity was not over yet, and while it lasted he intended to wait in case the men came back. They were his only hope of escape. A thousand years in this valley, he thought, pulling his clothing tighter against the cold. No man could have remained sane throughout such a captivity. The wonder was that the madness ever faded at all. It was an eternity later that the prisoner heard the engine. He stood up as the sound of the motor grew louder. The men had returned I He listened intently as the noise gave a final roar and died away. Voices came down to him. "Stand back!" It was a man speaking and one accustomed to authority. "The witch may have laid a trap since you were here last." "I'm not worried about her," said a woman. "I just hope the Senechi don't fly off before we get back." "You leave that to Mike," said another man. "You saw what he did to those controls." The prisoner recognized the last voice. It was Weston! The man had escaped. Something had happened in the Sleeper's chamber after he left. "Now," said Weston, I'm going to the edge. Give me five seconds and then pull me back whatever happens. No, make that three seconds. Ready?" Suddenly Weston came into view, staring down at the prisoner from the ice high above. "Help me!" cried the prisoner. "Get me away from here!" "Stay there!" Weston shouted, and disappeared. Rescue. In a few moments he would be free. He heard Weston speaking to the others. "Yes, it's the man from the cave. He's there." "I told you be would be," said the woman. "This is the only place be could have come." "He was lucky you thought of it," said Weston. "I didn't see him leave the chamber. Ah I Thanks. Fire away." The prisoner heard a series of ringing metallic blows, seven or eight in all. Wbat were they doing up there? The noise might attract his daughter. Weston reappeared, accompanied by several other people. ne of the men flung a rope  ladder. It hung quivering in front of the prisoner, inviting him to take hold of if. He could see every strand of the rough fibers. Hesitantly he touched it. The men shouted at him to climb up it. He put his foot on the first rung and began to climb. He moved very slowly, hardly daring to breathe in his tension. On the third step he felt the old familiar heaviness flowing into his limbs. He knew that her power was still strong. After six steps he paused, his breathing labored, and he found he could not rise again. The ropes were taut and stretching under the weight of his distorted body. They would break soon. He knew the men watching him, uncomprehending. He hung there on the ladder, not moving, until the ropes parted. He dropped back into the pit. He lay on the floor, looking upwards at the puzzled faces. They threw him another ladder and urged him to try again, but he shook his head wearily. He would never be able to reach the surface  while his daughter possessed him. One of the men shifted his feet, dislodging a piece of snow. The lump came falling into the pit, but it melted away in the air. The prisoner saw it vanish. He had to face the truth. His daughter's power never lessened. This had all happened before, again and again. He had lain here jin previous centuries, seeing the anxious people above, knowing their efforts were useless. Now he remembered why Weston's face was familiar in these surroundings. Endes Weston had stood up there, three centuries before. And how many others had tried to rescue him from the pit? All of them had failed. He was fated to remain here until the Sleeper arose. He was trapped in this fragment of a forgotten summer, beyond the help of any man. Bitterly he called out to them to go away, and presently they did. Their engine started up, fading gradually into the distance until he could no longer hear it. He was left alone. It always ended like this. He was no better than the birds in the trees, singing the same songs. Only the people outside were IF IF  Short Story The message was urgent! The fate of empires rested on it -- and it was # # years too late! A lonely wind whispered across the dead city's harbor, carrying with it a wisp of dust from the dry sea bottom. Jon followed the swirl of dust with his eyes, saw it eddy around the rounded, timesmoothed stones of the crumbled ruins, then drift to the ground as the tired wind died. The Scout looked up; though the local sun stood high, the sky was almost black, and he could make out Deneb. Sol, he knew, was just a few degrees to one side, but too far -- much too far -- to be seen from here, even through this thin, dry atmosphere. "Quiet place, isn't it?" asked Jon's partner, tall Rolf. "Yeah, we're the most excitement the planet's had since the ocean boiled away." "Well, you aren't going to have much excitement to match a lowgrade nova -- I suppose that's what it was. Still -- " Shrill bells sounded. The two men jumped, then ran for their Scoutcraft, a few hundred meters away in the ruins. As they ran, Jon touched his radio, yelled, "I hear ya; alarm acknowledged! What'n space is it?" "Aerial craft approaching, nonTerran, non-Federation." The Scoutcraft's computer shifted from its flash-message to its emergency tone of voice, continued: "Bearing # degrees, elevation # degrees; field drive of novel type; broadcastGeorge Scithers received fils Hugo for the fan magazine (fanzine) ho edits, which Is and-sorcery literature. In addition to being one of our Hugo winners, Sdthers Is also the author of this month's "first" story, and we look forward to seeing his and third and many more when returns from active duty In the Far lag S my radar frequency and Juratly alternating to establish "Koice Broadcast?" panted Rolf s he vaulted oyer a heap of dusty stone. "Digital signals -- establishing a number base -- multiplication table -- series of prime numbers -- shall I attempt to open communication? " "Yes!" said Jon. He slapped his radio, said "Yes! " again. "Unknown is apparently computer-directed," the Scoutcraft computer went on in its prioritymessage tone of voice. "Programming includes a Ianguage-leamingand-translation program of Extraordinary adaptability." "Where'n space the thing come from?" panted Jon, remembering to turn on his radio this time. He bounded over a crumbled wall, slid to a stop at the Scoutship's side. "I thought you said there wasn't anything radiating on the whole planet before we landed." "The unknown was not on planet then," said the computer. "Fascinating ffahdatfcm ft frill Be SMe to converse wftB you By the time It arrives." "You mean, It and us found this planet at exactly the same time? That's -- that -- " Rolf fell silent, looked up and pointed. "There it Is!" A spot in the sky quickly grew, resolved Itself into an oblong, tarnished spacecraft some ten meters long that settled almost to the ground some distance from the two Scouts and their ship. The unknown floated slowly, silently toward them and stopped, still floating, a dozen meters away. Jon took a step into his Scoutcraft's airlock, hesitated, then stepped back out, staring. The unknown looked like nothing he had ever seen before -- too small o be a manned spaceship, too big to be a bomb, too featureless to be an exploratory probe and definitely not a Federation device of any kind. Not that there would have been another Federation device bn this planet of Deneb, countless lightyears from Earth. A new voice cut through the thin air. The unknown asked: "As thb Representatives of the Minister of Messages of the Government of Therin #, will you accept -- " "What in space do you mean?" asked Jon. "And who or what are you?" asked Rolf. ie# IF UT am message #Q# -- I have translated the number from Ease twelve to your number system -- of the Goarra Region, Messagetrinsport Department, of Tam-Raken, with rush and ordinary messages from the regional center." The tarnished spacecraft paused, then added, "I am on the Realm's business." "But -- but -- what happened here?" said Rolf, gesturing at the sere landscape, at the dusty ruin of the dead city. "Are you sure you aren't off course?" said Jon. "Way off course?" asked Rolf. "I've never heard of the Realm." "Incredible," muttered the oblong messagecraft. "You are in the very midst of the Realm. Still, it has been a long time -- " "How long? And what in space happened here?" "I am not authorized to make astronomical reports or provide irrelevant information," said the messagecraft, apologetically. "Now: this is the planet Therin, and you are only intelligent beings inhabiting thereon, correct?" "Yes, but -- " said Rolf. "Therefore, you constitute the Government of Therin # and hence, you necessarily encompass the office of Minister of Messages as well. Wherefrom it follows logically that you are authorized to accept messages. Now -- " "But -- " "The messages have been too long Relayed in delivery; I must deliver! them at once. You of course affirm your own secrecy-worthiness ; some of the messages are Realm's Secrets." "Well -- " "As the Government of Therifij #, you obviously can authorize yourselves to receive official messages. WiU you accept the messages?" "Okay, but -- " "I have," said the messagecraft, "just now transmitted my messages to your ship's computer." , "Printout of the data ready," said the Scoutcraft computer, via radio. Jon scrambled aboard, found a fivecentimeter stack of paper stacked under the ship's printer. "I would," said the tarnished messagecraft as Jon slowly stepped from his ship with an armload of message text, "have given you my messages by voice, only I understand from your ship's computed that you read faster than you listen. If you will check the messages now? I have translated them, of course, with the data from your computer." Jon handed Rolf half the stack of freshly printed paper, then began to read the top page himself. "Most Urgent, For Delivery In Haste," began the message. "From WD Goarra to WD, Therin #, for readdressal. # Third #. The invasion of the leading edge of the mtfft spiral by the Confederacy Fleet places the Realm's defense dispositions in serious hazard. Immediate mobilization of the following annex-forces is hereby..." Jon glanced down a page of numerical designations, turned to the next communication, read a fragment: u... loss of six systems in the trailing end of the Goarrn Region makes necessary instant retransport of auxiliaries and supplies for six again six sub-squadrons for # years to the far side of the Darker Nebula... " Jon turned to another: "... immediate outsending of interstellar watch and detection forces on bearing." Another message directed inventory of ferrous plating. Others sent forces thither, supplies hither, patrols yon. An invasion had swept across an eighth of the galaxy; the Realm and the invaders had been locked in struggle over systems, over whole clusters of stellar systems. But... J on looked up from the messages, glanced around The chill win swept over dusty ruins, over worn nibble, as it sighed past the age-crumbled city and out across thi# dusty basin of a long-vanished jocean. Behind Jon, his Scoutcraft glittered, sleek and polished, in the pale sunlight. Ahead of Jon, the tarnished messagecraft of the Realm of PTam-Raken still floated a half metier above the dusty ground. ios "But where --  " Jon gestured helplessly, at the time-worn stones, at the dry desolation that surrounded them. "If you acknowledge receipt and have no traffic for me to store, I must... " began the messagecraft. "Wait," said Jon. "The Realm -- where? And how long? What happened here?" "I am not authorized to report irrelevant information," said the tarnished, oblong spacecraft. "I -- " the machine paused, went on: "I can provide information about message handling only." "Ha!" said Rolf. "Uh -- messagecraft, why were you delayed in delivering these messages?" "There was a class six nova in the local sun just before my emergence from hyperspeed translation which blew away the atmosphere and oceans of the planet. Since then, I have waited. The present atmosphere gradually seeped from the planet after the sun normaled again." The messagecraft paused, added, "Cause of nova unknown." "But -- there's a message here on the use of nova-inducing weapons by the invaders and a warning -- " "Minister of Messages," said the messagecraft in an immediate-message, somehow shocked tone of voice, "we never read the messages with which we are entrusted." Jon asked, "How long ago?" "I am not authorized --  " IF I "N(S, go," sail? Rolf. "What Is tEB -- the Sme of ransmission of these messages?" "From # through # Third #. Were not the be ginnin g times on the messages you receives?" "Yes, but -- " "Then you acknowledge delivery?" asked the messagecraft, floating half a meter higher, as if eager to be off. "Yes, and what's that in our dating system, and what in space Is your hurry?" asked Jon. "Your computer's data on the secular deceleration of your timekeeping planet's rotation are incomplete for precise extrapolation," said the messagecraft. "However," it continued, while Jon and tall Rolf looked at each other in surprise, "the beginning times in your timekeeping are between about # September and # October, #, # ." "B. C.," added the messagecraft, in a calm, routine-message voice. And since For Delivery In Haste messages require acknowledgment of delivery to be returned to the sender, I must depart immed -- " Said Jon. "In that time the Reahri of -- of -- " "Of Tam-Raken," said the mesfcagecraft. "Unless you have a message -- " "Yes," said Rolf. "I do have a message: 'Good Luck'." "And the address?" "It's for you. Good Luck." L The messagecraft floated a fevg centimeters lower. "This is very unregulational and irregular but -- but -- receipt acknowledged and -- and thank you." The tarnished oblong of metal Sobbed once more, then lifted swiftly, silently into the dark sky. In seconds, messagecraft # was out of sight. 'said Rolf weighing the pile of messages in his arms. "The Realm of Tarn-Rakefi must've had the slowest message delivery system in space," said Jon. "AH of that," agreed Rolf. He looked up toward the empty sky that once had held the mighty, lost empire of Tam-Raken. "And ceri  New subscriptions and changes of  address require # weeks to processl I mam ## I? -- A? .'  ' V k . i l! I ii v ' v  ' . XT 'iz# r W? fj' ;v,. V. # ": .k #j v jm  t y t'H'.b tK P  #. #   ni; r r. Z ; rf A; 'M; rr, -- ' ,  .V  .#   rhj  A" i#l ,, liv ,    "liw i ii 'iwlv:" V  A ih  . iflliv fIF  Short Story " Beware  all you fyrantsl I come to help the underdogs -- no matter what their color, creed or rac el" A Ierted by their watchmen, who  were mostly Seminoles, the RedNecked Ofays of the Okefinokee Reservation came hurtling out of their soggy holes and nests with such yiolence that the alligators and water moccasins went hurtling back into theirs. Reptiles can take only so much excitement. With hoarse cackles of happiness, the emaciated whites and their Red Indian fellow-reservationists floundered about snatching at the little transparent packets of hominy grits, chitterings, and moonshine originally intended for the poor Black trash of Appalachia, but falling like manna from the sweaty southern sky. Along with the hillbilly ambrosia and nectar, a faint cry haunting as the flight of the flamingo lingered in those same dismal hot heavens: "Compliments of the Endfray of the Ofay I" The Red-Necked Ofays paused in their snatching to lift a ragged cheer. This was not the first exploit of the mysterious marauder who bad thus far left no due to his identity except a cry from the sky. Most folks now attributed to him the signs, "Whitey lives #" which a month ago hid begun to appear scrawled big in shiversomely daring spots, such as the front wall of the Black House in Memphis. Then a week ago a boisterous party of Luxor Blacks on a sweep-and-annoy Excursion through the Bayous Reservation had had their persons and swamp buggies deluged with Yazoo mud "Courtesy of the Endfray of the Ofay I" Many intellectual and fashionable Blades had secretly approved this literally dirty trick, since the chivvying and terrorizing of helpless Ofays was beginning to be considered uncouth behavior. Then only yesterday a #year-old white concubine of the Caliph of Harlem had been kidnapped by the Endfray and levitated back to her tribe in the Great Barrens Reservation. Reactionary and moralistic Blacks, long detesting the Caliph for his contempt of the strict rules against miscegenation, had openly praised the act. In fact, only the rescued and windblown white girl had been completely unhappy about the whole business. But no Blacks could be expected to approve the food drop, which not only upset the national economy, but also violated the even stricter laws against interfering, by helping the weak, with the divine principle of survival of the fittest. The Black wardens of the Okefinokee melted with their furious and frightened messages the wires to Memphis, Cairo, Thebes, Luxor (once Vicksburg and Natchez) and the other great Government cities of the American Nile. Within ten seconds two squadrons of Black Angels based on Winning this year's Hugo for his novelette "Gonna Roll the Bones' Fritz Lelber added the new trophy to the two he has already wont one In # for his Kamak had scrambled and another was screaming down through the stratosphere. A t Her palatial HQ in Memphis, Her Serene Darkness noted the disturbance and ordered that samples of the food packets be recovered and rushed to her. She did not, nevertheless, shift one black iota of her essential concentration off the great war that was being fought between North America and Africa to Make the World Safe for Black Supremacy, by determining which Blacks really were supreme. Ten seconds more and all three squadrons of Black Angels were reversing course west as quickly as their already great velocity would permit, and then shifting into overdrive. Word had come that there had Been another drop of mysteriously diverted viands -- this time on the Death Valley Reservation of the Bearded and Beaded Ofays. Once again there had come that weird cry from the sky: "Compliments of the Endfray of the Ofay I " Along with the packets of fruit and saffron-tinted, precooked rice IF land vegetables, there were falling foam packaged Tibetan prayer wheels, smuggled no man might say how through the Nirvana Screen. The starving descendants of ancient hippies, beats, culdsts and movie moguls had come boiling up out of the furnace-hot mouths of their caves and holes. Even outside the reservations, holes were a popular residence in those exciting times when Black atom bombs were in the air and when all mankind was preoccupied, to a degree at least equal to his interest in space, with Earth's molten, slow-churning mantle, rich in mohole-minable radioactivies and also a source of strange and mighty powers when man Dufresne Electrogravitomagnetic Fields) or by magic spells. For in the new world sorcery and sdence walked arm in arm, sometimes so closely that none might tell which was which, or who was holding the other up. And the density iand darkness of Earth's interior suited the Black Age. Russia, which ever since Dostoyevsky Day had shifted her fundamentally introspective and peasant interests from the sky to the East European plains and Siberian steppes, had Tungu chants) to carry by slow convection and concentrate vast subcritical masses of fissionable radioactives underneath all the world's ling would produce unimaginably destructive earthquakes -- the socalled mantle bombs that were sion. Africa and North America utilized the same methods to enrich the radioactives they took from their mohole mines. Australia had Aboriginal magic to accelerate continental drift, so that the great down-under island, shoving Tasmania before it, was now separated from Antarctica by only a narrow strait. Australia enjoyed a Canadian climate and was hemmed by extremely rich fisheries. While the great Buddhist hegemony of Sinoand yoga and zen (certainly) to create the Nirvana Screen. In response to the echoing cry from the dry sky, the Beaded and Bearded Ofays touched fingertips to foreheads and briefly meditated their gratitude. In the fringes of her awareness, Her Serene Darkness noted this food-drop also, and she gave the same order. Over the Pacific, a tiny Westward speeding vehicle reversed course instantaneously, and so of course without circling, to return momentarily to a point over Death Valley and shout down, "The Endfray thanks you for your prayers." The Ofays below rejoiced, while by the psionic grapevine that tenuously links unfortunates, a little hope was kindled in the Swarthy Ofays of the Chihuahua Reservation, the Stunted Ofays of the Jersey Flats, the Giant Ofays of the Panhandle Reservation, the LongHaired Ofays of the Tules, and even in the Wild or Unfenced Honkies of the Rocky Mountains, the Black Hills, and the Badlands. The Endfray's linear loop wasted enough time to let the Black Angels zero in on him, her, it or them, with their radars and telescopes. With aimed and activated their deadly lasers, rocket bombs and constriction fields. Ophe Endfray went zigzagging  west again just in time. His evasive tactics were masterly. He seemed able to anticipate each move of his pursuers. Mini-atomics burst info searing violet spheres about him, red laser-needles lanced past him, space itself was squeezed and wrenched, but he bobbed along unharmed like a Ping-pong ball in a tornado. For an instant one Black Angel telescoped him clearly. The fleeing vehicle was incredibly tiny, the size and shape of a chunky dwarf's spacesuit, snow white in hue, and across it went the red letters "Endfray of the Ofay." There were no jefs or antennae. It flashed out of sight perhaps a microsecond before a laser pierced the space it had occupied. Yet despite or perhaps because of the Endfray's ingenious doublings and dartings, the Black Angels were gaining on him. He veered south, but Australia sent up a line of warning star rockets. He veered north, but when he neared the moored, melancholy black balloons marking the Russian border, they moaned, "Nyet, nyet," at him and he once more reversed course and sought the Equator. The blue of the sky ahead became grainy and glittering like a holograph. It extended down to sea level, blotting out Borneo and the western shore of Celebes. Without hesitation the Endfray plunged, at precisely # degrees east longitude, into the Nirvana Screen. Chanting their fatalistic death chants, the pilots of the Black Angels sent their slim ebon ships after him. Without perceptible passage of time, pursued and pursuers emerged over the Indian Ocean at # degrees east longitude. The same thing would have happened in reverse if they had been traveling east, or at # degrees north latitude and the Equator if they had been traveling along a northsouth vector. It was the Orient's master mystery, greater than the rope trick. Truth to fell, ho one outside knew for sure whether India and China still existed inside the Nirvana Screen, or not ExplanaIF lions ran the gamut from spacewarp to mass hypnosis and the Nigerian gull-spdL While what the superscientific andor superphysic Buddists of the Fourth Dimensional Path might o if they ever came out, chilled even Earth's blackest blood. Africa loomed, the continent that was the home of the biggest animals, the biggest magics and the biggest bombs in the world. The Endfray climbed steeply. Already at greater altitude, the Black Angels rode the hypotenuse of a collision course. Ninety miles from intercept, magnibombs mashed the stratosphere everywhere around the Endfray and coalesced into one massive incandescence. Veering off with hardly nanoseconds to spare, the Black Angels' wing commander bounced home his message off the most convenient orbital relay: "Target destroyed by African antispacecraft fire." K uf before it was received at Memphis, there was dropping on the Fierce Fuzzy, or Bluecoated Ofays of the Chicago Craters Reservation, a shower of packeted food -- wienerschnitzel, corned beef and cabbage, Irish whisky, beer -- and foam-crated roller skates, the latter diverted from a shipment intended for the great gladiatorial ring at Cairo. While down the dants of rain from the dismal sky there resounded, "Compliments of the Endfray of the Ofayl" No one knew why the Chicago Craters Ofays were called fuzzy, or amply refered to as "the fuzz," once all of them were totally bald from residual radioactivity. It was one of recent history's many mysteries, about which thought was discouraged. But anyone could figure out that roller skates would be an excellent means of transportation on crater glass. And by now everyone. Black or White, knew that the Endfray was an impudent and unbearable affront to absolute authority. Her Serene Darkness made a derision and took her mind completely off the War. She could safely do this because her uncles were good generals and because her psionic intelligence organization was the world's best, with vast powers of telepathy, clairvoyance, dairaudience, telekinesis and teleportation, from the orbiting espers each shuteyed in her capsule to the Blacks in Blackness: whole psionic families which had lived for generations in deep-buried, absolutely anechoic, aoptical psi-spy-proof environments, their only connections with the upper world being inbound nutrientpipes and oxypipes and quartzcable ultraviolet conductors and outbound waste-pipes and report lines. Psionic Intelligence's chief task was to spot and course-chart bombs lobbed over from Africa and up from Argentina and Brazil, where Africa had an enormous beachhead, and then either turn them back by telekinesing their controls, or else guide atomic interceptors to them. Her Darkness was certain that her espers were the world's finest because she had been their working chief before taking over her largely conscious, nonpsionic imperial duties. Now like an arboreal black leopard -- slim, flashing-eyed and dangerous -- she gazed down the Watusi-Hottentot gap between her and her pages. "Summon me my psychiawitches and sorceresps," she commanded. The patter of sprinting bare feet faded from the tesselated floor, which was a great, diagrammatic map of Earth and the spaces around. Turning her beautiful, small head on her slender, long neck, Her Darkness gazed out between the narrow pillars of Vermont marble fretted with California gold at the rippling blue Mississip, and she meditated. A page entered and knelt to her, lifting a golden tray on which gleamed glassy packets, samples from the Endfray's food-drops. She silently indicated where to set it. A tall, glossy warrior in HQ harness folded his arms in the Communications doorway and intoned, "Acapulco, Halifax and Port of Spain have sustained medium to severe damage from nuclear near-misses. Our rockets intercepted, but not in good time. Orbital warnings on the three African attacks were late and inadequate." "What from the Blacks in Blackness?" Her Serenity inquired. "No warning whatever from that quarter." She nodded dismissal and returned to her meditations. Yet it seemed hardly picoseconds before the Presence Pavilion was once more full and silent, except for the faint susurrus of the most respectful breathing and the pounding of frightened hearts. Qlowly, one by one, Her Dark ness gave her assembled psychiawitches and sorceresps the leopard look which her populace expected of her and loved, especially when they did not have to face it. Those gathered in the pavilion were almost as tall as she and even more gorgeously clad, but they crouched away from her and ducked their heads like terrified children. Then she asked in a voice that set them shivering, "Why is our newest and insolentest enemy uncaught by you, nay, unreported even," and without waiting for an answer commanded, "Read me the mind of the Endfray. Ice it and slice it, dice it and rice it. Skewer him in space, nail him in time. IF no Situtl him from his lowest note to the top of his compass. Tell me his source, his nature and his fate." Instantly a sorceresp of the Seventh Rank babbled, "He is a dwarf white trainee! and equipped hi a secret laboratory in a branch of the Carlsbad Caverns underlying the White Sands Reservation of the Bulge-Brained Ofays. His aim, unquestionably, is the fomenting of an Ofay revolt, a Honky insurrection. He is now hovering seventeen miles above Aswan St. Paul." Without intervening pause, the Second Psychiawitch chittered, "He is an African agent of Pygmy .extraction, a marauder skilled in teleportation and telepathy. His means of aerial locomotion is a deceit; he uses slowed-down teleportation, not speeded up field flight. Under cover of the magnibomb blast, be landed unharmed In the territory of our hateful enemies and is now making report to His Terrible Tenebrosity in bis shelterpalace beneath Mogadishu." "The Endfray is not one, but many," another took up. "He is radioactive atoms over the Somali boast. He also speeds east intact Over Old Cleveland on the Dead Sea'. Another of these duplicates -- " "By Bast and by Ptah, the Endfray is extraterrestrial," yet another I cat In. "A seven-tentacled amphibian from the fourth planet of puling Altalr, he Is the forerunner of an invasion which -- " "By Serapis and Harpocrites, she is an Indian witch, sister to! Hah, able to penetrate tbe Niryana Screen and let others through. She -- " "The Endfray is a group-minded nation Of Black Martian Ants. Only such tiny creatures could survive the changes ofmomentum that -- " "The Endfray is a fantasml That's why no material weapon can i -- " "That'll be (enough!" interposed Her Serene Darkness. "When I want improvisations, I'll summon me my artists." The faint, jeering notes Of an electronic calliope on a distant pleasure barge seemed an Overtone of her scornful contralto Voice. "Facts I desire. Where is the Endfray? Take scent and search!" And picking up the gold tray, she scattered its contents across the room in one sweep. Tphe soaring, transparent foodspackets were snatched, sniffed, fingered, held to ear and forehead, passed hand to hand. There were faint growlings and eager whimperings as the assembly transformed Into a pack. Her Serenity directed, "Each search that part Of earth or space On which she stands," referring to the diagrammatic floor map. "Eet not one oozy sea cranny or fissure in of damp clay cave be overlooked, and forget not the far side of the moon. Except you... and you," she added, beckoning the First Psychiawitch and also the sorceresp of the Seventh Rank who had been first to answer. "The rest, to work! " "How many minutes have wei for ur task?" the Second Psychiawitch ventured. The eyes of most of the others had already closed or gone blank as the minds behind them clairvoyantly scanned. "I give you each one hundred seconds." Then, turning to the Seventh-Rank sorceresp, "You spoke of an Ofay revolt. Where? When?" "One is planned, Your Darkness, It will begin in Los Alamos and be timed to coincide with an all-out African assault ordered by His Terrible Tenebrosity." "Ridiculous!" the First Psychiawitch interjected in a whisper. "Not even His Idiocy would be so stupid as to think the reservation Ofays might be roused to helpful revolution, or the wild Honkies organized for any purpose. Nor would even His Vileness stoop to use such foul and tawdry means." In the Communications doorway there appeared a warrior, impassive but white-eyed. Her Serenity showed him her finger. He intoned, "The Blacks in Blackness report that Africa has launched from Casablanca a vehicle with a stage thrust. Window clouds surround it. Its course bends west." "Aye. Ten times that of any known Afric or Americ launching vehicle." "It is the revolt-sign!" the Seventh-Rank sorceresp wailed. "From its size, it's more likely itself our death-sign, if our interceptors let it get over our land," the First Psychiawitch remarked coolly. "Silence," Her Darkness said, not unkindly. Then, to the room, "The hundred seconds are up. Where is the Endfray?" I n the hundred and seventyodd faces, eyes opened andor came alive with spirit, looking toward Her Serenity with a professional confidence which, as the seconds passed and not one of them spoke, transformed, again into fear. "Has toy one of you not completed search?" Her Darkness inquired. "Or failed to make it as thorough as I commanded?" Heads rotated from side to side. Lips formed, "No." "Then the Endfray is nowhere," the First Psychiawitch whispered in a voice that was not meant to carry, but did. One cried, "It is as I said. He is a fantasm, invisible to psionic search." "No, it is as # said!" another took up. "He is from Altair, tod returned there in the twinkling of IF a self-teleportive thought We have not searched Altair, only space out to Pluto" ' When the possible seems to fail, only weak brains grasp at the impossible," Her Serenity interposed. "Stellar teleportation takes perceptible time and leaves perceptible dues, as you well know. While fantasms make no teleportive fooddrops land leave no psychic scent No, to solve our problem we must use an apothegm of Sherlock Holmes." Eyes grew puzzled, while the First Psychiawitch murmured, "Who is that?" "Sherlock Holmes was a Cryptoblack of vast deductive intelligence, who lived in -- " Her Darkness rapidly starred herself, moving fingertips to the seven cardinal points -- "the Tabooed Times " Everyone else copied Her Darkness and starred herself at once, to ward off any ill hap which might come from mention of a forbidden area of the continuum. Her Serenity continued, "The Sherlockian apothegm I have in mind i# this: when all other explanations are proven false, then the least likely explanation must be the true one. You have not searched all of habitable Earth and Solar space." The psychiatrist standing bn Memphis said hesitantly, "But, begging Your Serenity's pardon, I have searched every closet of your secret quarters, including the apartments housing your harem and your laboratories of magic and the vault guarding your secret fortune." "It is well that you have," Her Darkness replied, smiling most dangerously. "But those are not the sole forbidden or esp-proof volumes of Earth." "You are thinking of the mantle and core?" one asked. "I said, 'habitable " Her Darkness snapped. "Can you not guess the other spot I have in mindfc" i A sorceresp standing just south of Louisville cried out, "I scent the Endfray over Bowling Green! His vector, southwest by west. He speeds. Already he overpasses Clarksville." The psychiawitch standing between her and the one on Memphis took up with, "And now I catch his scent in turn. He comes on fast. He is over Paris, Milan, Bells, Brownsville, Covington -- " "And now -- " the one on Memphis began. The air screamed. The goldchased pillars shook, and the purple silken awning snapped and flapped as something white flashed through the pavilion, tumbling by its blast everyone but Her Serenity. The scream, which had abruptly dropped in pitch as the disturbance went by, and then faded somewhat, now rose again in pitch and volume. "He returns to buzz us once more," the First Psychiawitch gasped from the floor. Her Dark Serenity -- hair unspiraled and straight on end, eyes like a mad tiger's, fists clenched, knees bent, slender feet a-stamp -- incanted rapidly, "Null Kull, nufi Rufi, Nutt time, null space, Nufi motion and null Grace. By Kinged Man, Spades, and Lovers Be winged-dogged, aU that hovers. Paralysis know, and fear -- " The screaming knifed. The pillars began to shake. Something white -- " -- And drop down here! " S ilence returned with a roar. Something white lay on the tesselated floor -- a squat and rigid spacesuit like a white oQ drum with stubby cylindrical arms and legs, but windowless and without sign of bead. Her Serenity drew and expelled three gasping but controlled breaths. Her hair recurled With faintest rustlings. Those around am id, leaned in, and peered, though without rising fully from the floor Where they had been sent sprawling. Holding out her right hand prone, Her Serenity commanded, "Arise!" Like the reverse motion picture of a rigid fall, the white spacesuit swung erect as if its heels were hinged to the floor. "Emerge!" Her Serenity continued. The suit did not open, but out of it, as if walking through a white wall, there stepped a handsome black boy who looked nine years old. He Wore a loincloth. Though his eyes were shut tight, his face was animated, and he smiled as he looked up. "My Empress -- " he began. Her slender hands, snaking forward to capture him, clamped tight on air. A chuckle came from the far end of the pavilion, where the black boy had rematerialized midway between fwning and floor. Heads switched around to watch him where he stood on air. Two sorceresps pointed at him, the one a wand, the other a yellow thighbone. Three warriors appeared at the Force door, bearing silvery, conenosed hand weapons. Her Darkness snapped her fingers. Still shut-eyed, the black boy chuckled again. The three warriors swayed like ticked bowling pins, anus tight to sides, legs tight together, bound by the constriction fields their weapons had projected backfiring on them. While pointed Wind and thighbone hung limp as cooked spaghetti from the hands of the sorceresps. IF "Any more games?" the black boy inquires hopefully. If he'd been chubbier, he'd have seemed like a wingless cupid. "Who are you?" Her Darkness demanded far more coolly than she felt. "The Endfray, of course, Empress," he replied, looking at her as directly as if his eyes had been open. "At your service, providing -- I humbly beg your pardon -- the service suits me." "Yet you have helped the Honkies, aided the Ofays -- why?" Her Darkness asked automatically. She was still half in shock. The Endfray's grin widened and he quirked his face. Finally, "Just for fun," he said. "No, that's not true. Fact is, you see, I like stories of wars and battles, and -- " "As any young Black should," Her Serenity interrupted approvingly. She was regaining her sense of command, and her mind was beginning to work again. At her feet the First Psychiawitch took fire from her and cried out, "Indeed yes! Brave battles! Complete courage! Stark strength! Merciless might! Violence and victory!" The Endfray hung his head. His expression became an odd mixture of embarrassment and defiance. "But you see, Empress, I always like the losing side best. Being with the winners is no fun. But siding with the losers, when all the odds are against them -- And you got to admit, it's hard to imagine a losinger side than the Ofays." "Accommodation! Tomism! Honky-Iove!" the Second Psychiawitch cried scandalized. "Don't you know the first sign of high intelligence is the faculty of violence?" the First Pyschiawitch demanded. "Inside the Niryaha Screen, they think it's the ability to sit still," the Endfray countered. "Strength is virtue. Weakness is sin," the Leading Sorceresp chanted. "But you got to remember we were the losingest once, we were the weak ones, we -- " the Endfray continued stubbornly, but his voice was drowned in cries of horror at his unprefaced and unstarred reference to the Tabooed Times. The warrior appearing at the Communications doorway did not stand on ceremony, but roared over the din, "Our psionic trackers have lost touch with the African supermissile south of the Azores! The Blacks in Blackness have broken off their reports." sphere was shocked silence, in which the Endfray's voice sounded out clearly. His grin was gone. "Yes," he said, "and now, big as a metal moon, it's approaching Bermuda. Our interceptors rise to destroy it. Counter-missiles shoot from it and become balls of white flame. Our interceptors puff into nothingness. It still comes on." The Leading Sorceresp pointed him a shaking arm. "He is an African agent," she screeched, "sent to disrupt our counsels at this moment of crisis." "That's not true, Empress," the findfray protested "I've stuck with America because we are the losingest side of this war. We are the weak ones. Africa's going to win, unless I --  " Once again his yoke was lost, this time in a din of outrage that broke off only when Her Dark Serenity threw up her arms and died, "Fools! Have you not yet guessed who the Endfray is? Have you not yet solved the Sherlockian riddle? The only spot you haven't psionically searched is psi-proof Mammoth Cave, immemorial home of the Blacks in Blackness and just by Bowling Green. He is dearly one of them, and their best tracker too, highest product of our breeding for psionidty. When he Was out on his mad mission to the Ofays, three bombs got through. When he returned home and you could not find him, We got reports on the launching of the African super-missile. When he started here, those reports stopped. And did it not occur to you that he keeps his eyes drat because he has never before been in an environment of optical light? You are all idiots! Endfray, haw goes it?" "The big one zoomed in over Savannah and Macon. Its last counter-missiles blasted those of our coastal and backup defenses. Ten seconds ago it was about to break up over Birmingham and shower all the dties of the Nile with a hundred hydrogen heads." "Was?" "Of course, 'was,' Empress. While all these here were squawking I jiggered its controls and put it into a permanent #-minute circular orbit around Terra. I'm going to keep; it there too. I'm sorry, Empress, but In spite of you being yery bright and right about me, I don't trust you With that big a bomb Or His Terrible Tenebrosity, of course. War's romantic, but destruction's loo realistic." Her Darkness turned on him. 'You have your nerve!" His embarrassment returned. "I told you I'm sorry, Empress." She paused and turned toward the Communications doorway, where a warrior had appeared. "The super-missile still speeds west," he rapped out. "Twenty of our interceptors have risen from Colorado Springs and thirty from Frisco to destroy it." "Imbeciles! Would you break it up, to do destruction, while it is still over our continent?" "Don't worry, Empress," the Endfray said. A second warrior appeared behind the first. "Our fifty interceptors have escaped control and formed IF themselves into two goose wings slanting back from the super-missile. Their radar blips are unmistakable." The Endfray grinned. "And now, my Empress, I got to be going. That flock needs looking after." A third warrior appeared behind the second. "A bliplet, tiny but unmistakable, has added itself to the fifty blips and one super-blip." "We know," Her Dark Serenity said a shade wearily, waving her hand in dismissal. Then, to the First Psychiawitch, who was at last pushing herself up from the floor, "What exactly, Sister, means the word Endfray?" "# Your Dread Serenity," the other replied, "now that the taboos are lifting, it comes to me. I take it to be a word of Swine Roman, or Pig Latin if you prefer, a secret language of the Evil Days when Satan-Dis-Ahriman ruled. It was formed from English by putting the last part of a word first and then adding a long A. Even as Ofay means foe, Endfray means friend." "Friend of the Foe," Her darkness intoned tiredly "I might have deduced all from his name alone." Her eyebrows lifted. "Or Ender of the Fray. Frayender." "However you name him, he appears to have a lost-cause fixation and a comics-books mentality," the First Psychiawitch intellectualized. "Stop," Her Serenity protested, raising a listless palm, heard enough about Hohldes loS today. Dismiss alL" Russia noted the sup-BomB orbiting with its entourage ghfj set off a warning earthquake that quivered all Antarctica. Australia in turn dropped in the Bering Seg a warning bomb that upset a sealer and sent small a tsunami foaming over the beaches of Kamchatka. But that night the Ofays in their reservations went to sleep for the first time in a century with hope and even a little confidence in their hearts. Someone cared.   rica agreed to a bombing halt. It was madness to continue a war which only built up the Endfray's orbiting armory. They diverted all their research -- scientific, psionic and sorcerous -- to a hunt for a means of knocking the Endfray out of the high sky. But secretly Her Dark Serenity decided that he would make her ideal successor. She pondered plans to win him over. So did his terrible Tenebrosity. The Endfray turned his major attention to the plight of the Untouchables behind the Nirvana Screen. There was a cause even more lost than that of the Ofays. And he still had, for a lost-cause ace in the hole, the Boers and other white trash of the Blancostahs and concentration camps of Rhodesia IF  Feature, V ary feg stience-fiction stories have dealt In any way with robots, though the term has been used often and creatures of metal Have been some of the best characters found In our literature. But these have almost always been mere mechanical men or sub-men. n both their nature and the functions they serve, they are simply artificial humans, sometimes limited in ability' and frequently given greater strength or toughness, but pot essentially different. From the yiew of economics -- Which Is what largely determines How! things wdl really develop -- this is utter nonsense. It makes fief sense to use a costly machine to do I man's job. There will be fio shortage of humanity for such work unless there's a radical change ifi our proclivity to breed and bring up our own kind. And for the jobs requiring strength, an intelligent man inside a power machine is still a lot more efficient than an intelligent machine. Anne McCaffrey suggests that the man-inride-machine idea may be carried much further in the future. In her story, The Ship Who Disappeared, the narrator is an ultimate cyborg -- a mixture of organic intelligence and mechanical parts, in which the human being becomes I part of an interstellar ship. Such  dip should be the perfect place for a robot brain, if one is ever developed. The huge number of sensors that have to he monitored in such a complex mechanism seems to demand an intelligence with more information inputs than can be hooked to the human nervous system; and need for almost instantaneous integration pf the information also demands something frith greater speed than that found between human nerve cells. And the building of such a ship is going to be so expensive that the added cost of robot control no longer seems prohibitive. AfiyhoW, the idea of using an adapted human being here yiolafes another theoretically important economic rule: a man should not be used to do a machine's job. This is a good rule, but it is Being Broken regularly in many of bur factories today -- and probably Will be Broken in the future, is well. It's often cheaper to Waste i man In some routine mechanical bpeirfBon -- t such as fastening a nut Onto a bolt -- than to install the self-regulating machinery to replace him. Unless the robot is functionally and economically superior to a man -- unless he's definitely unlike a man, in other Words -- Miss McCaffrey is correct in her choice Of a human-ship cyborg. S # far, science can't tell us much about robots, except that they must be different from men. The cyberneticists Who work frith "thinking" machines have done no better than science fiction When it comes to robots. Computers are simply tools, and the real intelligence they show comes from the programming done by human operators. Marvelous as they are, they lack the sdf-programming and complex learning abilities that are minimum requirements for what we call a robot. Yet the computer has made the robot at least mechandally posable today. Thirty years ago, toe idea of such a creature was pure fantasy. The vacuum tubes needed for all toe circuits couldn't have been packed inside toe Empire State Building, and toe Waste heat from the power needed Would have made adequate cooling impossible. NoW we have gone to toe transistor ng beyond it to toe IC -- toe integrated circuit; this puts several transistors and toe other components of a circuit onto an etched bit of silicon so small that hundreds could be stacked on a quarter. The power requirement for their operation is also reduced to such a small amount that it is no longer a problem. A mechanism as complex as the organization of brain cells needed for human thinking might conceivably be little bulkier and draw little more power than the body that is needed to support a man's brain. But the hardware has far outstripped the software in this case -- that is, the knowledge of how to build bur robot and what to build. We simply don't know enough about perception land thought yet to have any clear idea of how to build them into a think ing machine. At a recent Boskone meeting in Boston, Dr. Marvin Minsky discussed the problem of teaching a Computer to "see" -- and showed a film of his program. By adding a scanning tube from television to the computer, he had worked out a program that enabled if to distinguish various cubes well enough to stack them up into piles. This represents a difficult progress in machine perception. But it's still a long way from the human ability to look at a circle from the side and see a circle, rather than the oval it becomes, or to build up a pattern from many distorted images. But we still haven't the faintest idea of how our own internal thinking machine functions. We don't Know how we organize the perceptions into patterns, nor even how we store them as memories. Lately, there has been some speculation that eveiything we had guessed about memory in the past is Wrong. We assumed that each bit of information was somehow registered somewhere in a certain cell. Instead!, it may be that memory is diffuse, and thaf everything is somehow impressed everywhere. This is called the hologram theory of memory, since it behaves le the holograms used in laser demonstrations of three-dimensiona projections. On such a film, every bit of the film contains the whole picture -- and cutting off a piece for use still yidds the whole image, rather than only part of it, though the fineness of detail suffers. If so, we don't know how it is done, nor how such memory can be used. And we don't even know whether this is a fair guess or just another blind alley of speculation. fTTeverthdess, work has already started in an attempt to build a robot. He already has a name -- Frederick, for Family Robot for Entertainment, Discussion, Education, the Retrieval of Information and the Collation of Knowledge. And the project is being undertaken quite seriously by a group of sdentists at the Edinburgh Department of Machine Intdligence and Perception. (They haven't This will be a task in which many fidds of research can be pooled. It is headed by Professor Donald Michie, who is a biologist, and his two chief fellow-workers Will be a psychologist and a theoretical chemist. Frederick Will never be a mechanical man. His brain may be housed in a building separate from his "sense organs," or even in several scattered units, linked by cables. Nobody is interested at present in giving him a body, beyond some kind of mechanical arm or #M IF manipulating tool. He isn't meant to be a working model of a sciencefiction robot, but simply a tool for research into how mechanical simulation of thinking can be achieved. The men working on him have ambitious enough a project without trying to make him fully humanoid. They want to find ways for storing information as patterns of memory for faster retrieval and for his own use. They want to enable him to perceive and manipulate objects under wider and less specific conditions than now possible. And he must be able to learn. He must be able to program himself to a large extent. When the programs he is given don't work, he must be able to revise the rules and make up new ones to fit the recurring hew situations he will face. Hopefully, he will learn to communicate significantly about what he perceives and learns. This won't be in English, probably, but in a more generalized language than previous special computer languages that hkve been developed. The results Won't prove much about how the human brain thinks, directly. We can already duplicate some of the specific actions of the Eraih, but there is no evidence that the circuits used do their work in the same way that the human nerve cells do. But science will learn a great deal about one form of thinking from Frederick, and that will be far more than we now know. From such knowledge, it should be possible to form a reasonable body of theory about thought in general, and from that we can go on to test and formulate theories about how the human mind functions. And from what we can then learn about human thought, it will be possible to go back and make a far better attack on the problem of simulating thought in  robot. 'T'he robots that evolve from such a continuous program won't be human simulacra in their thinking, however. We can give them a somewhat similar set of "instincts" -- since they'll be preprogrammed by liumans, just as we're preprogrammed with human instincts by our evolutionary background. We may even find ways to give them the equivalent of our biological drives, such as a pleasurepain response. But they'll still have to think in non-humah ways. Dr. Claude E. Shannen -- "the father of information theory" -- outlined some basic differences in ment and the Computer of the Future. According to him, a robot's circuits will be precise and designed for their functions, where human cell linkages are random and depend oh redundancy to work. Also, a robot will think serially -- step-by-step, but at # fantastic rate; while men apparently think IF    in a parallel fashion, attacking a problem In sort of an all-over fashion. In time, such differences might be brought closer together, of course. But there is one essential difference that wQl never change, because it is the one big advantage of robot thinking. A robot necessarily carries bn the maneuvers of thinking -- whatever they may be -- at a rate thousands of times faster than the human brain can. Messages travel along nerves and across the gaps between cells at a rate measured in thousands of feet per second; electrical pulses travel along wires at over a hundred thousand miles a second. A nerve cell has a response cycle measured in thousandths of a second; and the circuits of a computer today operate in nanoseconds -- thousandths of slowest, the robot is going to have his thought processes operating a hundred thousand times as fast as those of a human being. Perhaps with that speed of thought, a far less complex cluster of "cells" will be able to do the job for him. He can make serial thinking work, where we have no time to trace every step down, but must have enough circuits to examine our memories in parallel. With that difference, a robot can't think like a human being. It would be like a man trying to think by waiting a whole day between each word he utters! The robot is going to have to use different symbol structures in his mind, and that means he's going to perceive his "reality" differently from the perception of any human being. Our robot may some day be superior to us, or he may always be inferior -- probably because Sre won't permit him to be otherwise. But his thoughts are going to be alien to us in a sense that the thoughts of no protoplasmic brain can ever be alien! Out of that alienness will come the abilities he has which are unique to him and useful to us because they are not talents which we can develop. We can't possibly know what good he will be until we begin to build his prototypes. Unquestionably, he'll have uses; and those uses will be unique, not imitations of human activity. There's one comforting thought, however. If men and robots hre so different in thought and function, they won't be in competition. They'll form a natural symbiotic pair, with no danger of the robothuman war so often described in      IF IF  Novelette He could see that the world was doomed to chaos, and the only hope was to speed the process! I door opened, and the legend "A  L Expediters" was revealed. Then M ark Redwing, a lean, dark man the woman had entered and closed of less than average height, the door behind her. dipped the mimeograph stencil Redwing's features lit with a from his typewriter and gazed at saturnine expression. "Listen to it with admiration. this, Linda -- I really love this! A shadow fell bn the frosted Listen: 'The time has come and glass door of his small office, the passed for idle contemplation. We cannot remain silent, inactive. We can no longer tolerate wholesale witchhunts and the persecution of our membership by fascist hategroups. The Emergency Committee for tire Defense of Gus Wilson sees no other alternative to that of drastic, immediate action! Now is the time!'" He chuckled. "I've thrown in every radical political cliche I could think of. How does that strike you? Anything I've missed?" Linda shook her head. "That should shake them up on both fronts, all right. And I guess you're ready for these." She set down the package she'd been carrying and unwrapped it. It was a box of fresh letterheads. "Let's see one," stud Mark, reaching. He held it up to the light, then! pulled open Ids top desk drawer and took out a second sheet. He compared the two, ran his finger over the printing on the fresh one, and nodded his approval. "Very nice, nearly identical. A good job, a fine job of printing." "I'd just as soon not go back there though," Linda said. She shrugged from her suit jacket and hung it neatly beside the door. "It's One of those shops where you just know they're not meeting their overhead with legitimate work. I fed a little crawly every time I'm in there. "But they're cheap, and they ask no questions," Mark said, dismisTad White, o long-time fan, was honored With a Hugo for his many distinguished articles and controversial contributions to various fan magazines. Mr. White has also functioned as a professional sf editor and writer. In # he was co-chairman of the World Science Fiction Convention, held in New York Gty. sing the complaint. "Here's the stencil. Set it up and start running them off. I want to start them into circulation by this afternoon." The cream phone rang. Linda scooped it up on the first ring. "A and L." She extended the phone to Redwing. "For you, 'Mister Lewis.' " He took the phofce. "Lewis here." There was a long pause. He grunted several times, then replaced the receiver. "Everything's moving along smoothly," he said. "The bus company found the bomb in Boston in plenty of time."  cover off the. desktop mimeograph, Redwing moved to the Wall of filing cabinets. From one file be pulled an envelope. He returned to his desk with it. From a: lower desk drawer fie took a sheet of unwatermarked, Woolworih's sulfite typing bond and rolled it fhtd bis typewriter. His bands paused, momenSrpy, over thei keyboard, and tEeB Began rattling out tfie brief message: IF This is our last yarning. You have until Thursday the #st to publish your agreement in the personals section of the Nevv York Times. The enclosed is a reminder that your time is running out. From the envelope he removed a sheaf of snapshots. There were several different shots. Each in quadruplicate. All showed a nearly identical scene; they must have been taken in quick succesion. The subjects were two men. One was past his middle age. His face was clearly visible. It was a face Which had been well known for over a quarter of a century, the face of a man who, by Presidential dispensation, still held his high governmental post long after the mandatory retirement age. The other was a young man. Both were nude. Redwing selected one of the snapshots and laid it on his desk while he neatly folded his brief letter into thirds and then inserted both in a business envelope. A carbon went into the file, along with the envelope of remaining photographs. i "Any of those things run off yet?" he asked Linda. She stopped the clacketing mimeograph and passed him a small stack of sheets. "Most of them are run off, Boss," she said. "Here's the first twenty or thirty." I "Good," he grunted. He dropped them to the floor. They slipped and fluttered until they were blanketing the floor around his feet. He did not bend to retrieve them. Instead he began walking on them, wiping his feet on them, scuffling them as he might a doormat. When he was satisfied with the results, he picked them up and shuffled them into an untidy pile on his desk. From another file drawer he removed a set of letters and envelopes. Some of the letters were typed -- on demonstration machines in Macy's -- and some were hand-scrawled. The latter bad cost an average of fifty cents apiece and had been written with careful effort by the winoa and derelicts he bad found when he had spent an afternoon three months earlier wandering from Union Square down Fourth Avenue to the Bowery. The paper used for the different letters was a motley variety, ran ging from monogrammed sheets in odd sizes and tints to lined paper tom from a pad. T he fop letter was typewritten. It said, "Dear Sirs. I found this crazy paper oti the street and I think its disgrisefull and you out to do something about it rightaway." Redwing folded if together with One of the footprinted mimeographed sheets, and inserted them both in an envelope addressed to "The Justice Department, Washington DC." The other letters were similar In sentiment. They Were addressed to congressmen and senators, with varying accuracy, as well as to a number of governmental agencies, including the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Meticulously, Redwing folded the dirty sheets with their indignant letters and sealed them into their respective envelopes. "This evening, Linda, I want you to take five of these out to Brooklyn With you and mail them in boxes in different zones. They have return addresses -- you can post them nearby." Linda shrugged. "There goes my evening, just driving ground. Couldn't they all just have mailed them in Grand Central Station on their way home?" "You can take off an hour early," Redwing said. That morning Redwing and his secretary folded and stuffed over five hundred of the form letters -- undirtied litis time -- into envelopes addressed to major names of every political denomination: Liberal, Reform Democrat, Socialist, Socialist Worker, Republican, Democrat, Young Republican, Youth Against War and Fascism, Dixiecrat, the Anti-Defamation can! Nazi Party, the John Birch Society, Jewish leaders, leaders of IF gelt patriots "Who is this Gus Wilson, anyway?" Linda asked at one point. lowing flapped a dozen more envelopes. "Head of a trade union. Suspected of strong leftist leanings. This letter should clinch it. Right nog he's testifying before the Senate Labor Relations Subcommittee. He's not putting on too good a show, and there's been a few demonstrations on his behalf. There's an emergency committee set up to collect funds for his defense; they've already cut him off from the union war chest. The union's about ready to dump him. This letter should help." "But, if he's already on the way put -- :?" "Why go after him?" Redwing smiled. There was no warmth in his anile. "Chaos. This should muddy things up a little. It should embarrass a lot of people. It's too pat; somebody on the emergency defense committee will catch the blame. A saboteur. Disunity will erupt. And of course that's the prelude for our campaign against the Unions. I'm setting it up for the wolves." St noon Redwing loaded the neatly addressed envelopes Into his atfidiS case and took them to Gritad Central Station, where he pbisted them before heading up Pjgjdc Avenue to his private dub for ' H i  L tT Tdlo f Mark," Chester Folkes i-tlsaid a shade too eagerly. Redwing stifled his inward impulse. An aroma of blended deodorant, hair cream, after-shave lotion and month wash assailed him; he wanted to wrinkle his nose in disgust and turn his back. Folkes was, at something less than thirty, already neatly preserved in all the proper emb almin g agents. His sandy hair was too thin, but brushed impeccably in place and held there as if lacquered. His shining face had a pinkness that would never become ruddy. His outstretched hand was so plump that his knuckles were dimpled. And it was because of these qualities and the others they all too accurately suggested that Redwing had decided immediately that Folkes would be useful. He had let the man cultivate him. "Share my table?" Folkes asked, his hand still out. "Certainly, Chet," Redwing said warmly. "Just let me get washed up first." He turned as if not noticing Folkes's limp gesture. His hands were itching badly now, and he needed to remove the transparent rubber surgical gloves he always wore in the A  L office. Once in the washroom he could soak his hands for a few minutes before talcing them. Once seated at Folkes's table in the dining room, he took a deep breath, held it for the count of ten, let it out slowly, anil smiled warmly at his erstwhile companion. "How's the work coming, Mark?" Chester asked effusively. "I hear Ford just renewed your grant." Redwing nodded. "They did. We're In the midst of a very promising line of research." "Is that right?" Folkes said. "You know, I don't believe you've ever told me much about your project." "That's true," Redwing agreed. He glanced down the menu. "Something to do with politics, isn't it?," Folkes asked. "Group dynamics," Redwing said. "A very rough science. We're still in the early stages of setting things up ini terms that can be programmed, and I don't anticipate fullscale application of our findings for use in political prediction for another, oh, ten years yet." "Group dynamics, eh?" Folkes said, trying to sound both knowledgeable and curious. "The behavior of groups, you might say," Redwing amplified. "There's a strong analogy to atomic physics. An individual electron is pretty unpredictable, but statistically you know exactly what they'll do. Human beings are an individualistic lot, taken one by one. But group behavior is another story. Mob psychology, political action; if you can peg down enough of the valuables, you can rough out a workable equation. Right now, we're still forking with the rudiments, but if our present research pans out, we'll be a long way toward a genuine political science."   sayl Just marvelous! You know, I certainly am amazed at all the things they're doing with science these days. Why, it seems only yesterday we hadn't even men bn the moon, and now we've not only got them on Mars, but flatwall color TV, and -- " "And the Russians have bases on Mars too, as well as their own positron bomb," Redwing said. His voice dropped and became more intense. "It's unfortunate that they had to be first, but that's tKe breaks, huh? Of course we really don't have to be afraid of the Russians these days, anyway, but it is a little scary to realize that once every eighteen hours a Chinese space station passes over our country, isn't it? Some people have trouble sleeping when they get id speculating over how) close the Chinese are to the positron bomb, now that they have the delivery system. Bui that's progress, I guess. You can't stop process." Folkes looked up sharply from his meal. "What's that, MarEH Who'd want io stop progress? Redwing smiled. If was a feline! expression, and if seemed id transfix Folkes's widened eyes. "Havj IF jra fever pondered?" be asked, "Consider this. Fifty years ago, Ibis dub -- he gestured about him at the teak-paneled walls and somber hues, the obsequious staff and wealthy dubmen -- "would never have admitted an American Indian to its sacrosanct rooms. And many still grumble at the thought. Would you have their whole way of life disturbed?," Folkes tried to chuckle at what he sensed must be the joke. "But, Mark -- fifty years ago, how many Indians had..." IBs voice seemed to lose all impetus and trickle off as he realized what he was saying. "Hit oil, made their mint, cast off their loin doths, and come off the reservation?" Redwing asked, finishing the question for him. "Not many, Fm sure, Chester. It's a sign of changing times. Sometimes change is not fully appreciated. Sometimes it shakes somnambulent men from their quiet slumbers with the threat of extinction. Sometimes, Chester, it will jar a man into rash action. Things start happening just a little too fast for him to comprehend. He doesn't think --  he reacts. Bang, goes the weasel!" "But, ahh, Mark. Are you saying you think we should stop progress?" "You can't stop progress. That's meaningless," Redwing said. "But still, better to let the deeping Bogs lie, eh? Than to provoke their bark ipd their bite?" His voice was sardonic. "Mirk, I'm afraid  don't undegstand you at all," Chester FolEes said dowly. He shook Ms head gs he spoke, and his fleshy cheeks shook. Redwing pondered how long it would take Folkes to lose the flab, after the food stopped. K fter luncheon, Redwing picked up an early edition of the after- noon Post, and admired the head- photo, in the bottom left quarter of the page, pas of Selma Ryan displaying as much thigh as possible for the purpose of publicizing her latest TV show. The few short lines directly under the headline on the tabloid's front page said simply: "Abraham Victor, President of the New York Stock Exchange, jumped to his death ... Market closed .   immediate investigation under way... story on page three." Page three carried the story across four columns of the top left, ground the smiling photo of a gray old man. Redwing read only the opening lines: "Abraham Victor, president of the New York Stock Exchange for nine years, took his life today only shortly after opening business hours, at about #:# a.m. in a spectacular death dive from his #th-story office in lower Manhattan. He left behind only a pile of well crumbled ashes to explain his action..." "Strike one " said Redwing. Ill j C C A ny calls?" Redwing asked, !j when he returned to the j j A  L office later that afternoon. ! j "Two. Both on the black phone jjjj -- your other office. Dr. Seymore f jwants to see you about some charts, ji j And somebody from the Ford j! Foundation, for a luncheon apj  pointment. I put him down for next  Wednesday."  Redwing nodded, then tossed the  paper onto his desk. "Seen this? g  Our first direct hit. Victor commitip ted suicide. The Exchange is closed. , They're afraid of irregularities, but they'll have to reopen. There'll be j a panic." The cream phone rang. Redwing i answered it. He listened without it l speaking then hung up: "That was  Cleveland," he said. "Greyhound m didn't find the bomb in time." ? Linda turned to stare at him. "It  -- went off?" # Redwing nodded. "I trust the I others will be searched far more H diligently." I Linda gave him a strange look as  he went out again. AT ark Redwing did not return to the small office until late that afternoon, just as Linda was preparing to lock up. His expression was troubled. "What's up, Boss?" Linda asked solicitously. "Seymore's pretty charts get out of order?" IF Redwing sat down and stared out the single office window at the wall of the airshaft opposite. "No, not at all. I wish you wouldn't keep riding him. You've never met the man. He's an extremely able individual, exactly the man for the job, my perfect front man. Trouble is, he's too good." "What do you mean? On the phdne he's another one of these perfect Whiteys, all full of hearty hello's, how-are-you's, always telling me how we must meet some time, since we have the same boss. He strikes me as the sort who's better at getting a job than holding it. I get the feeling every time I talk to him that he's making a long-distance pass at me." She shrugged. "He should only know." Redwing shook his head impatiently. "That's just the mold they cast scientists from these days. If he hadn't met me, Seymore would be bucking for a Government research grant or a niche in some huge corporation. Like everyone in his field, any intelligent man who wants to get anywhere, he's taken on the protective coloration. You should see him operate on those people from Ford. "No, that's not the problem. Seymore is an okay man, all right. It's his job to set up the main computer program for us and to coordinate all the rest. He's already through the prelims -- and it's the direction he finds himself headed toward that is scaring him. He's smart. He can evaluate the stuff he's feeding into that program. And he's been getting closer and closer to the truth. "As far as he knows, the Institute for Population Studies is simply trying to program a long-term study of political behavior, with an eye to a little forecasting in times to come. But nobody in the Institute is aware of my real reasons for setting it up, nor the uses I've been putting the program to. No one has any idea of my real purposes. They naively believe they're helping to turn political science into a real science, and they're full of what they think it'll do for human relations and all that baloney. God help us. If this sort of thing ever was used in politics... "But, anyway, Seymore is catching on." "How could he? You haven't been doing anything to make him suspicious, have you?" Linda asked. 'O edwing swivled around to stare at her. She was not unappealing. "I don't have to. It's all there already. He's reading it out of the preliminary results and the data we've amassed. The headline on Victor crystallized it for him. "The human brain, Linda, is a vastly superior and more efficient computer than anything we've yet built. Those chains of protein molecules store and remember everything. Every so often the subconmmu correlates a couple of items mi comes up with a 'hunch,' which far the most part we ignore. Seymore -- the man has a broad grasp of everything programmed for the computer. It's all up there in his own computerlike brain." Redwing tapped his own forehead. "It's just waiting for his subconscious to sort it all out. "Now ideally he should arrive at the same conclusions. There's no magic to a computer, Linda. It just adds things up. Its only real advantage is its single-mindedness. It operates without bias, without the built-in 'noise' of distractions we humans have. It doesn't require a particular answer in order to justify its existence to itself. It has no prejudices. It just weighs all the factors, like a super adding machine, and reports the balance. "There have been human computers -- people with trick minds, the lightning calculators, the type who work huge sums without effort, or recall or compute the date of any day of the year, for any year in history. Most are idiots. Simple-minded. It's not a survival trait. "But most of us have minds cluttered with too many problems, too many unrelated thoughts and ideas. Our emotions get in the way. And we don't trust bur intuition. So there is Seymore; he's been picking and subconsciously sorting all the data he's been feeding the machine, lie "There's only one answer. And it's nagging at him, at the fringes of his consciousness. Victor's death was very upsetting to him. He can't quite figure out why, but it is disturbing the man, Linda. And that disturbs me." Linda nodded, slowly. "I see. But just how much can he find out?" "The broad outlines: the trends and countertrends. They're all there in the data; -- I know; that's where I got them. The death of the individual among the masses. Population pressures. Racial friction. Religious friction. The growth of insuperable pressures, and monolithic power blocs. The signs are Ml there, just as I'd originally instituted them. The Institute's study necessarily confirms them. "If you look for them, the trends are obvious: power massing, gaps growing. The world's getting too small. No man is more than two man in the world. You can't go off and live on an island any more. A bad cabbage crop in France will lay ten thousand men off Detroit assembly-lines. No one has to make decisions any more. Responsibility is a corporate function. How much longer can we wait for the Chinese and hope for prosperity to humanize them? One more major famine over there, and they'll take us all with them, just for spite. The races aren't assimilating any more -- they're dividing. And where will IF our allegiance go?" He laughed mirthlessly, "You've heard it all from me before. The world is one great machine now, and all of us are cogs within wheels within cogs within wheels. We're all geared in together, and we don't have a flywheel to balance us. We're a steamroller without brakes. "It's all there for Seymore to read. A huge machine on the verge of going completely out of control. "And you know what we have to do, Linda. When a machine goes but of control, you have to stop it, before it blows up and destroys you. "That's our job. To stop the machine." He nodded toward the Out basket. "Don't forget those letters when you go." IV TVedwing worked late that night. He spent the next hour making phone calls and jotting notes. Several of his calls were overseas, by satellite. Following that, he wrote letters, brief and anonymous, on Woolworth's typing bond. Occasionally, before seeing an envelope, he would tuck in a photostat or photograph. Once he opened the safe that was behind the file drawer marked "M" and removed several bills of a large denomination, which he dropped into an empty envelope with a blank sheet of paper. By the time he was finished, the hour was late. He stood and stretched, then went out in the hall, locking his office behind him as though leaving it, and soaked his hands for five minutes in the washroom down the ball. His hands felt puffy and sore when he added more talc, snapped the gloves back on, and returned to the office, but he did not doff them for the night until his letters were in the mail and he was on his way home. iC'KTou know," said Chester   Folkes, after taking a rather strong gulp of his martini, "it is really not safe to be out bn the streets, these days. Can you imagine it? There I was, taking an afternoon stroll from the apartment just trying to work up a little honest appetite, you know, and the next thing I knew, there were bullets flying all around me! This seedy little colored man, if you know what I mean, he was running down Sutton Place with a suitcase in one hand, and these policemen were shooting at him." He mopped his forehead with the napkin, oblivious to the reproving stare of the approaching waiter. "They got him, of course. Along with all the glass in the telephone booth on the corner across the street. They shot him and knocked him down in a heap right in the middle of the sidewalk, right in the direction in which I was heading. The suitcase fell opea and a little pile of dirty laundry ipilled out of it. I heard one of the policeman swearing about it, and about how it would have to be covered up. I can't imagine what he was talking about. I was so upset that I hailed a cab. I would have crossed the street if a cab hadn't come along, you know that?" He downed the remainder of his martini and signaled for another. "Totally unnerving, to be shot at on Sutton Place" "I can imagine," murmured Redwing. T kere are some quite fascinating stories in here, if you know .Where to look for them," Redwing remarked to Linda a few days later. He tapped his copy of the morning Times with his forefinger. "For instance, scandal has struck the Church. The Archbishop of the pasfem Diocese shot himself. A sin, pSu know. There was a riot in fettle; somebody started potshotting the police during the Boeing strike, and they attacked the strikers. A shame; the strike had almost been resolved. And there's an editorial about that regiment of American Legion hotheads who invaded the East Village last night looking lor pacifists to beat up. Another JgSJ I ! crashed into Long Island almost immediately after fkebff from Kennedy, and yet anSther mistook the Indian Ocean for # grounding them all. Douglas is screaming, of course." "Was that all us?" Redwing nodded, flashing his surprisingly canine teeth in a momentarily smile. "All but the American Legion." "You've really got your program rolling, now," she said. Her tone was strange. "Push a little here... pull a little there," Mark said. "Yes. Phase one is finished. We've flexed our muscles sufficiently to prove their capabilities. Now it's time for phase two -- the main program." "I just don't know," Linda said. "I mean, I can't see what good it's really doing, Mark. All I can see is that you've hurt a few individuals, ruined a few lives. And now you're aiming to destroy more people. But you keep saying that there is no individual responsibility any more. How can you expect this to add up to anything more than -- " "More than a little nastiness?" Redwing sighed. "That's where good old Population Studies comes in. I'm not hitting out at random, Linda. This is judo, an advanced sort of judo. "I already knew things were heading out of control. You knew that. What I wanted, what I had to find, was a way to cripple them without just accelerating the big bang. I had to find a way to sabotage things, slow them down, withIF out completely destroying everything. Sure, Population Studies is a front, but it's a good front, because it's real. It's equally valid for what people think it's doing. But its real purpose, the real reason I set it up, is to weigh the masses of data, to show me the time and the place for another judo chop, another crippling blow. By hitting at the people I do, when I do, it's as though I knocked the tooth out of a gear -- and made the machinery falter. It's not the specific men I hit, it's the things they symbolize, and what I strike through them. Like I said: chipping teeth from the gears. The gears aren't stripped, but -- " "I see," Linda said. Her tone was emotionless. "It's all a matter of gears and tactical chops to you. Just a matter of choosing the right targets at the right time?" There was something in the way she said it that kept Redwing from automatically agreeing with her. "What's the matter, Linda? Developed a conscience all of a sudden?" #X#ou're like a kid with an air  rifle," she said, her voice tight, intense. "Like a kid who plinks at birds and squirrels like they were tin cans that moved. You don't see these people as real, live, human beings, do you? "Sometimes I think you're just a hostile Goddamned Indian still sniping at the white settlers, you know that? And you feel free to hire me to assist your little scheme because you think, 'She's a Negro. She'll go along with my ideas; she wants to see things changed too.' But you're a rich man's son. It's like everything else for you -- it's all just abstractions." He stared at her with concealed surprise. There was a hint of tears at the corners of her eyes. It was the first, emotional outburst he'd seen from her. "I forgot you took a Ph.D. in sociology, Linda," he said calmly. "I forgot you knew all the answers already." There was a long silence. Then: "I've been talking with Seymore," Linda said quietly. It was a bomb which fell, ticking, to the floor between them. His face flickering no change of expression, Mark asked, "When was this?" "Yesterday, when you were out. He called, he wanted to talk to you again. It was very urgent, he said. I asked him what he wanted. I told him I knew the main details of the program. "He told me, Mark. He told me what was happening -- what's really happening." "You didn't tell me he'd called." "No." There was another long silence. Suddenly the shrill yammer of the black phone broke the silence. RedI Vriag fixed Linda with a sardonic I m, then swiveled his back to her pad picked up the phone. "Ahh, Mark?" It was Chester FoBos. Ahh, listen, Mark, I'm a frauf IH have to skip lunch frith jom today." Mark said it was all right. "I hate to caned out on you," Fdkes said. His voice was thin and L  sfcri B over the phone. "I know how taxLdst you enjoy the chance to relax. But things have been a little hectic lately. Stocks are acting up, d'you know what I mean? My broker has been quite a bother for the last eqople of days. I --  well, I don't want to cry bn your shoulder, old man. Perhaps tomorrow, eh?" "Certainly, Chester," Redwing sad. "Tomorrow." He hung the phone up, and swung back around to face Linda. "Where were we?" "Seymore." "Yes." "Do you want to know what he said?" Redwing did not answer. "He told me he was running some independant checks of his own, th at he'd had a hunch about things and he wanted to check it out. It was Victor's suicide. You were right about that, Mark. That's what set him off. It was too neat. It happened at too opportune a time. He wasn't sure for whom it was opportune, but... He worked it but. A week earlier, or a week later -- it wouldn't have had the effect it had. It was just too pat for him. So he started integrating a new factor: a party or parties dedicated to taking advantage of just such weak points as in the Victor case. And he extrapolated the trends." # A nd just what did he find out,  Linda?" Redwing asked softiy"Chaos. Total chaos. Not just a little slowing down. The reverse. He said that things Were snowballing, that it was like a finely tuned machine. If you threw it out of balance, the internal vibrations Would tear it apart. You can't slow if doWn because that's how the balance is lost. He made some predictions, Mark. You want to know a couple?" Redwing nodded, with a vague show of polite interest. His mind was elsewhere. Seymore was going to be a problem. One he'd have to deal With. "He predicted that there'd be a breakdown in labor-management negotiations throughout most of the major industries. He said any spark, almost, could set it off. He said that there might be an aviation crisis. He suspected that there might be a popular uprising against organized religion." "That's not all," Redwing said. "Tonight on Public Television, in the midst of the Disney Retrospective, a fifteen-minute piece of animated pornography will be shown in living color. Snow White never looked so good." IF Linda glared at him, wordlessly, "Buf you're right, at that," Redwing said. "Let's not quibble over terms. We have only one foreseeable future: chaos. We have two possible Ways to get there: slow disintegration, or the big bang. If Seymore weren't an idiot, he'd have tried an extrapolation along both lutes instead of just the one. PC want chaos, yes. But I want the chaos that man can survive. Yes, I 'do want to reduce our gleaming technology to rubble... I want to bring the Whole stinking mess down around our ears, Linda, because as hard as it'll hurt, it's better than extinction for the race." Redwing rose from his desk and Began to pace. "Ever since we've had atomic power, we've been in acute danger. And since the positroH bomb has been a reality we've Been living on borrowed time. "There are two schools of thought One holds that power is so dangerous that it must not be held by individuals, but by groups -- corporations. The other feels that power must be held by a small and closely watched number of individuals. "But they are both wrong. As long as power easts in such a tremendous concentration, it doesn't matter Who holds it. La any bands, it's tod dangerous. We must disarm the bomb. We must strip out the fuse aid scatter the components to the winds. "In other words, Linda, we must create chaos. My ancestors had the right idea. When mankind is reduced to small and semi-isolated communities at best -- Or subsistence-level existence at worst -- when the lines of communications and transportation are completely broken so that there can be no warring nations poised at the brink of disaster, then the human race can take a deep breath and begin to live again. "We've been pushed too far, too fast. We're breeding out of control. We're a half-mad cage of overcrowded rats. We're losing our souls in the hell of our own making. "It has to end, Linda. It will end. Of that there can be nd doubting. The only question is how. Can we control it sufficiently? Or will it wipe us all out? -- will die. They'll be the Ones who can't adjust, the city-dwellers cut off from food and water and -- " be laughed once, a short bark -- "their dubs. They're the excess. They have to go. Something Would take them in any case: plague, war, pollution. But they can't call their present lives really living, anyway, taught as they are in sterile boxes, pressured from birth to death in anonymity. "I don't kid myself I'm really doing them a favor, the Ones who Won't make if. But I'll be doing the race one." # #'V#" #U poor naive, idiotic fool," Linda said quietly and bitterly. "You, you -- idealist . Back to nature. Back to your father's father's ways. Solve everything by turning the dock back. Do you think that destroying this country alone would accomplish anything -- beyond doing the Sino-Soviet Bloc's work for them? Do you really think you'd be doing a favor for anyone ?" Mark sighed, turned to stare out the small dingy window. Sunlight slanted down the airshaft, warming and ydlowing the sooty brick wall opposite. "You can't conquer a country when it isn't a country any more," he said. "Not when it's nothing but an area of tribes and individuals, and all the channels for control are gone. But that's an academic point in any case. I'm not quite so much alone in this as you may have thought, Linda. And in any case, they're too closely joined to us, economically, to escape the scythe. You're right -- it's a snowball. It won't observe the artificial distinction of national borders. I'm sorry you've chosen to react in this way, Linda. Because this is my mission. I will not be stopped." Behind him, Linda reached a shaking hand into her purse and removed a small gun. It was a .# calibre solid-fuel, self-propellingslug Schneikel automatic. It was as thin as a cigarette case; it was designed for a woman's purse. '"I was afraid of that." Her voice caught and something about it alerted Redwing. He started to turn. "The trial period's over, you said. And Seymore says soon we'll be over the brink, past the point of no return. Somebody has to stop you," Linda said. "I wish it didn't have to be me. Good-bye, Mark." The violent hissing of the small gun blended with her last words. It was much easier than she'd thought it would be. The gun lay easily in her hand, and when she squeezed the trigger it did not recoil. The first shot was high, and she thought she'd missed, as Redwing threw himself at her. The second and third shots caught him in his throat and chest. It was much messier than she'd expected. The cream phone began to ring. Redwing's leg kicked weakly at the desk, then lay still. With subdued haste, the saboteur gathered up her few things from the office and left. The phone continued to ring for # IF IF  Novel Excerpt He fled into Skagganauk, the abyss... where there are no stars, and men dare not go, and even gods die I I shadow upon the' castle wall. "Yes, Typhon." . "Father I" A sound to break the ears occurs then. "Anubis said you had perished #" "He lied. Osiris must have wielded the Hammer, saying that he was saving the universe, for I was losing the battle." "That is true," says the Prince. "I was not losing, however. I was winning. He wished to slay me, not the Nameless." "How did you survive?" "A reflex. I went into fugue as the blow descended. A fraction of it fell upon me, and Anubis retrieved me, senseless, and spirited me off to his House. He scattered my gear across the Midworlds. He trained me as his weapon." "To slay Thoth?" "That was the task he gave me." "Then he diesl" said Typhon and rears, flaming. 'Desist, brother," says the Prince. "He did not succeed, and we may yet have a use for the dog." But already the dark horse shadow Has faded, and the Prince lowers his head. He looks to Set. "Should wel follow to stop him?" "Why? Anubis has lived a thousand years too long. Let him guard himself now. -- And how? Even if wl would, there is none can stop Typhon when the madness lies upon him." "That is true," says the Prince and turning, he addresses Vramin: "If you would serve me further, my former Angel of the Seventh Station, go you to the House of the Dead. It will soon require the presence of one who can operate the machinery." "Typhon was Lord of the House of Fire," says Vramin. "Yes, but I fear he will not remain in the House of the Dead after he has gained vengeance. If I know my brother, he will then seek out the one who wielded the Hammer. He will go after Osiris." "Then I shall remove me to the House of the Dead. Will you accompany me, Madrak?" "If the Prince has no further use for me here." "I have not. You may go." "Lord," says Vramin, "it is kind of you to trust me again, knowing the part I played in the Wars of the Stations." "Those days are gone, and we are different people. Are we not?" "I hope so -- and thank you." The Prince crosses his arms and bows his head. Vramin and Madrak vanish. "How," says the Steel General, "may I assist you?" "We go again to fight the Nameless," says the Prince Who Was A Thousand. "Will you come and stand in reserve?" "Yes. Let me summon Bronze." "Do so." The winds of Marachek stir the dust. The sun flickers its way into another day. V ramin stands in the great Hall of the House of the Dead, holding his Maypole cane. Its streamers go forth, entering into all the passageways, visible or otherwise, which come together at that place. At his side, Madrak shifts his IF weight from foot to foot and stares about him. Vramin's eyes glow, and the light dances within them. "Nothing. Nothing alive. Nowhere," he says. "Then Typhon has found him," says Madrak. "Typhon is not here either." "Then he has slain him and departed. He doubtless seeks Osiris now." "I wonder..." "What else could it be?" "I do not know. But now I am master here, by delegation of the Prince. I will find the places of power and learn their functions." "Yet once you broke faith with the Prince." "That is true -- and he forgave me." Then Vramin seats himself upon the throne of Anubis, and Madrak pays him homage, saying: "Hail, yramin! Master of the House of the Dead"" "You need bend no knee to me, old friend. Please rise. I will need your assistance, for this place is quite different from Seventh Station, where once I reigned." And for hours Vramin studies the secret controls about the throne. Then, " Anubis #" cries a voice which he knows is not the voice of Madrak. And somehow he mimics the bark, the whine: Yes?" "You were right. Horus was defeated, and he returned here. But he is gone again." It is the voice of Osiris. He gestures with his cane, and the big window appears in the middle of the air. "Hello, Osiris," he says. "So the Prince has finally moved," says Osiris. "I suppose I am next" "I hope not," says Vramin. "I can personally attest to having heard the Prince assure Horus that he would not take vengeance upon you -- in exchange for cooperation." "Then what has become of Anubis?" "I do not know for certain. Typhon came here to kill him. I came here to clean up after Typhon and to hold the Station. Either he has slain him and departed, or Anubis fled and Typhon followed. So listen to me, Osiris. Despite the Prince's assurance, you are in danger. Typhon is not aware of the Prince's promise, and he was not party to it. Having learned, the true story from Set herself and having heard it confirmed by the Prince, he is likely to seek vengeance on the wielder of the Hammer -- " "Set lives?" "Yes, He was known for a time as Wakim." "Anubis's emissary I" "None other. The dog had stripped him of his memories and sent him to slay his own son -- and father. That is what moved Typhon to anger." "A pox on the whole bloody family! And what has become of my son? He but left me this note, and -- Of course!" " 'Of course what?" "It is not too late. I -- " "Behind you, on the wall!" cries yramin. "Typhon!" Osiris moves with a speed which belies his fragile appearance. He dives toward a green tapestry, casts it aside and moves beyond. The shadow flows after him and rears. When if moves away, there is a iTyphon-shaped hole in the tapestry and the wall itself. U'T'yphon," says Vramin.  "I am here," comes the voice ."Why did you give warning?" "Because Thoth gave him his life." "I was not aware of this." "You did not remain long enough to hear it repeated. Now it is too late." "No. I fear he has escaped me." "How so?" "He was not within the chamber when I destroyed it." "This may be a good thing. Listen. We can use Osiris." "No! There can never be peace between our families so long as he lives, regardless of any chivalrous sentiments my brother may mouth. No. I will search this House until I find Osiris and he passes down Skagganauk Abyss!" "As did Anubis?" "No! Anubis has escaped me!" comes the cry. "For a time. Then Typhon rears; the flames come, and he Is gone. Vramin makes a daisy-beheading gesture with his cane and the window is closed. "Anubis still lives," says Madrak, looking back over his shoulder. "Obviously." "What shall we do?" . "We shall continue to study the functions of the House of the Dead. "I wish to rest." "Then do so. Find yourself a near chamber and retire. You know where the food is." "Yes." "Till later, then." "Till later, Lord." Madrak goes forth from the great Hall and he wanders. He comes after a timeto a chamber where the dead stand like statues. He seats himself among them. He speaks. "I was his faithful servant. Hear mb, lady with the breasts like melons. I was his faithful servant. The poet went to war with the other Angels, knowing it went against his will. But he is forgiven and exalted. And where am I? Servant to a servant." It is not fair. "Fm glad you agree with me. And you there, fellow with the IF extra arms. Did you spread religion and morality? Did you singlehandedly defeat monstars and wondrous beasts among the unenlightened?" Of course not . "So you see." He slaps his thigh. "So you see, there is no justice, and virtue is constantly betrayed, befouled, imposed upon. Look what has become of the General, who devoted his life to humanity; Life took away his own humanity. Is that justice?" Hardly. "All comes to this, my brothers. We all become statues in the House of the Dead, regardless of the lives we led. The universe never thanks. The giver is never repaid. Oh, You Who May Be, why did You make things to be this way -- if You did make things, to be this way, that is. Why? I have tried to serve You and the Prince, Your Agent. What's it gotten me? Coach fare and third-class accommodations. I am glad that Set battles the Nameless without the gauntlet of power -- " "What?" And looking up, he sees a statue which had not been there before; and unlike the others, it moves. Its head is the head of a black dog, and its red tongue darts and curls. X hidden from Vramin, escaped Tphon?" "This is my House. It will be many ages before all its secrets may be learned by another." Madrak stands, and his staff spins in his hands. "I do not fear you, Anubis. I have fought it every dime and place where man may take the Word. I have sent many to this House, and I come myself as a conqueror, not a victim." "You were conquered long ago, Madrak, and you only just now realized it." "Silence, dog! You speak to one who holds your life in his hands." "And you speak to one who holds your future in his." "What do you mean?" "You said that Set goes to battle the Nameless once again?" "That is true. And when the Nameless has been destroyed, the millennium will come." "Ha! Save your metaphysics, preacher. Answer me another thing, and I will tell you a very good thing indeed." "What thing?" Anubis steps forward, limp arm fluttering at his side. "What of the gauntlet of power?" "Oh," says Madrak, removing a gauntlet from beneath his dark garment and drawing it upon his right hand. "When I obtained this item, I thought that worlds might be won for the faith with it." It reaches to his dbow, his shoulder. "I did not know that Wakim was Set I was tempted to keep it for tnyself. So I substituted my own gauntlet-that-grows. If is a common enough item in some places among the Midworlds. This one seems to be of peculiar potency, while the other is but ordinary armor." The gauntlet now flares to cover his back and his chest "I could kiss thy fat cheeks," says Anubis. "For Set will now have less of a Chance against the Nameless. And all along you planned this betrayall You are a shrewder man than I'd supposed, Dadl" "I was used and I was tempted." "But no more shalt thou be used. Oh nol Now you wear the glove, and I propose an alliance -- " "Back, dogl You're no better than anyone else. I've something you want now and my backside is suddenly kissing sweet. Oh nol Whatever I do with my newfound power, I do for one person: Mel" "The alliance I propose will be mutually beneficial." "I need but give the alarm and you will be bound so tightly that all your guile will not serve to free you. I need but spin my staff in the proper manner and your brain will decorate the walls. So speak now with that in mind, fork-tongue, and I will listen." "If Osiris still Kves," says Anubis, "and if we can' reach him, then we three together may be able to destroy Thoth." "I am sure that Osiris still lives -- though for how much longer this will be so, I cannot say. Typhon pursues him about the House of Life at this moment." "We've a chance, a very good chance, of recovering all -- now that you hold the gauntlet. I've got a way to get us to the House of Life, and perhaps a way to rescue Osiris, also." "Then what? We do not even know where the battle with the Nameless is occurring." "One thing by itself, another when if arises. Are you with me?" "I'll go along with you to the House of Life, as Thoth desires that Osiris live and I may help to effect this much of his will. In the meantime, I shall be thinking." "That is good enough." ((Qee how the gauntlet grows.  Further than before! It is down to my thighs this timet" " Excellent I The more invincible you become, the better for us all." "A moment. Do you seriously think the three of us can defeat Thoth, Set and the Steel General?" "Yes." "How?" "The Hammer may strike again," says Anubis. "It still exists?" "Yes, and Osiris is its master." "Well, granting all these things and assuming that even yrjimin, who is now master in your House, JE nay be dealt with -- what ef the bther? What of the great shadow Ea the shape of a horse which will RursuS us till the end of our days, he who does not live in space as we know it, who cannot be destroyed, and who cannot be reasoned with when anger lies upon him?" Anubis looks away. "Typhon do I fear," he admits. "Ages ago I constructed a weapon -- no, not a weapon, a thing -- which I thought might serve to restrain him. When I tried to use it recently, he fell upon it and destroyed it. He also took my arm. I admit that I have nothing but my wit to use against him. But one does net throw away an empire for fear of one individual. If only I knew the secret of his power..." "I heard him mention Skaggapauk Abyss." "There is no such place." "Fve never heard the name before. You have?" "Legend, fancy, fiction." And what do these things tell of it?" "We waste time discussing nonsense." "If you wish my assistance, you will answer me. See, the gauntlet now reaches to my knees "Skagganauk Abyss, sometimes called the chasm in the sky," says Anubis, "is the place where it is said that all things stop and nothing exists." "There are many very empty spaces throughout the universe." "But the Abyss is said to be jempty of space, also. It is a bottomless hole that is not a hole. It Is a gap in the fabric of space itsdf. It is nothing. It is the theoretical hub of the universe. It is the big exit leading nowhere, under, over, beyond, out of it all. That's Skagganauk Abyss." "Typhon does seem to possess Wiese qualities himself, does he not?" "Yes, he does. I'll admit that. But it answers nothing. Curse the mating of Set and Isis! They have begotten a brute and a monster!" "You can hardly talk, Anubis. Was Typhon always as he is now? How could the Witch be delivered of such a one?" "I do not know. He is older than I. That whole family is shrouded in mystery and paradox. Let us be off to the House of Life!" Madrak nods his head. "Show me the way, Anubis." II rtTonis walks in the places of power, and none know his name. But if each among the creatures which pass were to be asked, they would say that they had heard something of him. For he is a god. His power is almost beyond measure. He has been defeated, however. The Prince Who Was A Thousand, his brother, worked his undoing to preserve his own life and the order of life which he represents. Now, Horus turns up an avenue, well lighted, where the various species cavort. Power and the night are around him. He has come to this particular street on this particular world for a reason: He is invariably undecided. He needs opinions. He loves oracles. He seeks advice. Darkness in the sky, bright lights along the thoroughfare. He passes places and people of entertainment. A man moves to bar his way. He seeks to pass around him, stepping into the street. The man follows and seizes his arm. Horus glows his breath upon him and it comes down with the force of a hurricane. The man is swept away and Horus moves on . After a time, he comes to a place of oracles. The Tarot readers and the astrologers and the numerologists and the casters of the Yi Ching beckon to the god in the red loin cloth. But he passes them by. Finally, he comes to a place where there are no people. It is the place of the machines which predict. At random, he selects a booth, enters. "Yes?" inquires the booth. "Queries," Horus replies. "A moment." There cames a metallic click, and an inner door opens. "Enter the cubicle." Horus moves to enter a small room. It contains a bed, of sorts. A heavy female torso lies upon it, joined with a gleaming console. A speaker is set within the wall. "Mount the inquiry unit," he is instructed. Discarding his loincloth, Horus does this thing. The rule is that your questions will be answered for so long as you give satisfaction," he is informed. "What is it that you wish to know?" "I have a problem: I find myself in conflict with my brother. I tried to defeat him. I failed. I cannot make up my mind as to whether I should seek him out again and renew the battle." "Insufficient information to reply," comes the answer. "What sort of conflict? What sort of brother? What sort of man are you?" Gruesome grow the lilacs and the rose rows be hedges of thorn. The garden of memory is filled with frantic bouquets. "Perhaps I have come to the wrong place." "This may be, and it may not. Obviously though, you do not know the rules." "Rules?" and Horus stares up at the dull mesh of the speaker. IF D ry monotone, the voice is sifted through: "I am not a seer, nor am I a foreseer. I am an electrical-mechanicalbiological votary of the god Logic. Pleasure is my price, and for it I will invoke the god for any man. To do so, however, I need a more complete question. I do not possess sufficient data to answer you at this point. So love me, tell me more." "I do not know where to begin," Horus begins. "My brother once ruled all things -- " "Stop! Your statement is illogical, unquantifiable -- " "... And quite correct. My brother is Thoth, sometimes called the Prince Who Was A Thousand. One time, all of the Midworlds were his kingdom." "My records indicate the existence of a myth concerning a Lord of Life and Death. According to the myth, he had no brothers." Correction. These matters are generally kept within the family. Isis had three sons, one of them by her lawful Lord, Osiris; two of them by Set the Destroyer. Unto Set she begat Typhon and Thoth. Unto Osiris she begat Horus the Avenger, myself." "Thou art Horus?" "You have named me." "You wish to destroy Thoth?" "That was my assigned task." "You cannot do it." "Oh." "Please do not depart. There may be more questions you wish to ask." "I can't think of any." But Horus cannot depart at this moment, for the fires are upon him. "What are you?" he finally inquires. "I have already told you." "Yet how have you become what you are: half-woman, half machine?" "This is the one question I may not answer, unless I am properly cued. I shall, however, attempt to comfort thee, seeing that thou art distraught." "Thank you. You are kind." "It is my pleasure." "I'd say that once you were human." "That is correct." "Why did you cease being so?" "I may not say, as I have already said." "May I help you in any way to effect anything which you may desire?" "Yes." "How? "I may not say." "Do you know for a fact that Horus may not destroy Thoth?" "This is the most valid probability, based on the knowledge of the myths which I possess." "If you were a mortal woman, I'd be inclined to be kind to you." "What does that mean?" "I might love you for your terAle honesty. "My god, my god! Tliau hast saved me." "What do you mean?" "I have been doomed to this existence till one who is greater than men shall look upon me with love." "I might look upon you in such a manner. Would you deem that probaUe?" "No, for I am too used." "Then you know not the god Moths." "It is the utmost improbability." "But Fve no one else to love. So I love you." The god Horus loves me?" "Yes." "Then thou art my Prince, and thorn hast come!" "I do not -- " "Side thou a moment and other things shall occur." i# l shall abide," says Horus. Ill V ramin walks through the House of the Dead. Had you eyes in that place, you couldn't see a thing. It is far too dark for eyes to be of value. But Vramin can see. Me walks through an enormous room, and when he reaches a certain point within it there comes a light that is dim and orange and crowded into comers. Then they come up out of the Inmsparent rectangles which now appear in the floor, come up unbreathing, unblinking and horizontal, and they rest upon invisi ble catafalques at a height of two feet, and their garments and skins are of all colors and their bodies of all ages. Now some have wings and some have tails, and some have horns and some long talons. Some have all of these things, and some have pieces of machinery built into them and some do not. There comes a moaning and a creaking of brittle bones, then movement. Rustling, clicking, chafing, they sit up, they stand up. Then all bow down before him, and one word fills the air: "Master" He turns his green eyes upon the multitude, and from somewhere a sound of laughter comes to fall upon his ears. Turning, toning, turning, he waves his cane. Then there is a sudden movement, and she stands by his side. "Vramin, your new subjects pay you homage." "Lady, how did you get in here?" But she laughs again and does not answer his question. "I, too, have come to honor thee: Hail Vramin! Lord of the? House of the Dead!" "You are kind, Lady." "I am more than kind. The end draws near, and that which I desire is almost at hand." IF "It was you who raised these dead to rest once more, ami I may ask your assistance. I may also ask what it is that you desire." "And I may leD you." nphe dead suddenly lie down and  descend into their graves. The light departs. "Do you know why Anubis fled?" he inquires. "No, I am only just arrived here." "He departed, pursued by your son Ityphon." And the Red Witch smiles within her veils. "That Typhon lives pleases me beyond measure," she says. Where is he now?" "Presently, he is seeking the life of Osiris. It may be that he has already disposed of both the dog and the bird." And she laughs, and her familiar leaps upon her shoulder mid holds its stomach with both hands. "How joyous a thing this would be -- now! We must look upon this affairl . "Very good," and .Vramin draws a green picture frame upon the dark air. Isis moves to his side and takes his hand in hers. Suddenly there is a picture within the frame, and it moves. It is the picture of a dark horse shadow, alone, moving upon a walk "This is of no help to us," says yramin. "No, but it is good to look upon my son once again, my son who contains the Abyss of Skagganauk within him. Where may his brother be?" With his father, as they have gone to fight the Nameless once again." And Isis drops her eyes, and the picture wavers. "I would look upon this thing," she finally says. "Before this, I would locate Anubis and Osiris, if they still live -- and Madrak." "Very well." And within its emerald frame, the picture slowly takes form. T Tis arm is around her waist, and together they watch the pictures that form within the frame, there in the House Of the Dead. They watch Osiris, as he sails across the sky in his black crossbow, up on which is mounted a thing that can smash a sun. He rides alone, and the yellow eyes never blink within that face which cannot know expression. They watch the dark cockleshell which contains Anubis, Madrak and an empty glove which holds power. Vramin traces two lines with the courses of the vessels. The picture changes to the place where the lines intersect. There lies the twilight world, and its surface untier goes upheavals as they watch. How it is that they could know the place?" asks Isis. "I do not know -- Unless -- Osiris! He found a note. I watched his expression as he read it." "And... ?" "Horns. Horus must have left him the note -- telling him the place. " "How could Horus know it?" "He fought with Thoth -- probably within Thoth's own mind, and Horus can look into a man's head, know what he is thinking. Sometime during that encounter, he must have stolen this knowledge from the Prince, who is normally proof against such skills. Yes, at some time he must have let down his guard for an instant. He must be warned #" "Perhaps Typhon will yet provide for his safety." "Where is Typhon now?" They regard the frame and all pictures flee. Black, black, black. There is nothing. "It is as though Typhon does not exist," says Vramin. "No," says Isis. "You look upon Skagganauk the Abyss. Typhon has withdrawn from the universe, to sad: his own way along the undersides of space as men know it. It may be that he, too, has found 'whatever note Horus left." "This is not sufficient insurance lor the Prince. The whole project lit may miscarry unless we can reach him." "Then go to him quickly!" "I cannot." "One of your famous gateways." "They only function within the Midworlds. I draw my power from the tides. I cannot operate beyond. Lady, how did you come here?" "In my chariot." "Of the Ten Invisible Powers?" "Yes." "Then let us use it." "I fear -- Listen, Mage. You must understand. I am a woman and I love my son, but I also love my life. I am afraid. I fear the place of that conflict. Do not think the less of me if I refuse to accompany you. You may take my chariot and you may ride in it, but you must keep your own company." "I think not the less of you, Lady." "Then take this pendant. It controls the Ten Powers that drive the chariot, and it will give you additional strengths." "Will it function beyond the Midworlds?" "Yes," and she slides into his arms and for a moment his green beard tickles her neck while her familiar gnashes its tiny teeth and knots its tail, twice. Then she conducts him to her chariot on the roof of the House of the Dead, and he mounts If, holds high the pendant in his right hand, becomes for a moment part of a IF  cleverly contrived tableau within a red-glass bottle, is then a distant twinkle in the heavens Isis watches. Shuddering, she retreats to the daces of the dead, to dwell again upon the one whom she fears to face, who is even now battling the Nameless. Suramin stares ahead with eyes of jade. Points of yellow light dance within them. ehind Vramin's eyes is the vision distilled. There stands the Prince, downward staring. The surface of the world's afire. On the hood of the Prince's ship stands the beast whose body is armor, whose rider sits unmoving, gleaming, also facing the place of conflict The crossbow approaches. The cockleshell swings forward. The Hammer is cocked, snaps forward. Then rag-tail ablaze, the comet comes forth, glowing, brightening as it races onward. Somewhere, a banjo is plucked as Bronze rears and the head of the General swivels over his left shoulder to face the intruder. His left hand jerks toward him and Bronze continues to rear, up onto his hindmost legs and then springs away from the Prince's vessel. Three strides only are taken. Mount and rider vanish. There comes a haziness, a crinkling, and the stars dance in that corner of the sky, as though they are reflections within an agitated pool. The comet is caught up in this wind that is Change, becomes two-dimensional, is gone. Pieces of the broken crossbow continue on along the path the vessel had followed when whole. The cockleshell heads toward the surface of the world, vanishes amid the smoke and the dust, the flames. For a long while, the entire tableau is a still-life. Then the cockleshell streaks away. It now contains three occupants. Vramin tightens his hand upon the piece of bloody light, and the Chariot of Ten turns to pursue. The conflict rages upon the surface of the planet. The globe seems a liquid and boiling thing, changing shape, spurting forth fiery fountains. There comes a series of enormous blazes and a mighty shattering. The world comes apart. There is brightness, mighty, mighty, and dust, confusion: fragmentation. Behind the jade eyes of Yramin, within which dances the yellow lights, there is this vision. IV YJ-ands clasped behind his back, i'  A the Prince Who Was a Thousand considers the destruction of the world. The broken body of the world, its members splintered and crushed, rotates beneath him, flattening, elongating, burning, binning, burning. Now he watches through an instrument as he orbits about the ruin, an instrument like a pink lorgnette with antennae. Occasionally, tkere is a click and the antennae twitch. He lowers it, raises it again, several times. Finally, he puts it aside. "What is it that you see, my brother?" He turns his head, and the dark horse shadow is at his side. "I see a living point of light, caught up in that mass down there," he says. "Twisted, shrunken, weakly pulsing, but still alive. Still living." "Then our father has failed." "I fear so." "This thing must not be." And Typhon is gone. Then it is framed in flame. Nothing lies within the blazing silhouette. Nothing whatsoever. Then the flames subside and the shadow shrinks, retreating, retreating, running down a long, absolutely empty corridor. Then there is nothing. It is as if the world had never existed. It is gone, finished, kaput, and the Nameless Thing That Cries in the Night along with it. And now, Typhon, too, is gone. A line comes into Vramin's head: "Die Luft ist kuhl und es dunkelt, und ruhig fliest den Rhein." He remembers not the source, but knows the feeling. Bloodbolt held on high, he pursues the god of death. Tow, as Vramin pursues the  cockle of Anubis, he sees the thing for which there is no understanding. Upon the blasted heap of elements that was a world there comes now a dark spot. It grows, amidst the light, the dust, the confusion, grows until its outline becomes discernable: It is a dark horse shadow that has fallen upon the rubble. It continues to grow until it achieves the size of a continent. Rearing, the dark horse is rampant over all. It swells, it expands, it lengthens, until the wreckage of the entire planet is contained within it. V , A wakening, slowly, manacled spread-eagle fashion to a steel table, bright lights stabbing down through his yellow eyes like electric needles within his brain, Set groans softly and tests the strength of his bonds. His armor is gone, that pale glow in the corner might be the star wand, his shoes that walk upon everything are not to be seen. "Hello, Destroyer," says the wearer of the glove. "You are fortunate to have survived the encounter." "Madrak?" he asks. "Yes." # IF "I can't see you. Those lights -- " "Fm standing behind you, and those lights are only for purposes of preventing your use of temporal fugue to depart this vessel before we are ready to permit it." "I do not understand." "The battle waxeth furious below. I am watdiing it through a port now. It looks as if you have the upper hand. In a moment, the Hammer that Smashes Suns will strike again, and you will of course escape it as you did the last time -- by means of the fugue. That is why we were able to pick you up a few moments ago, just as Anubis did in days long gone by. The fact that you did appear testifies to what will happen shortly. There! Osiris strikes, and the Hammer begins its descent -- Anubis! Something is wrong! There is some sort of change occurring! The Hammer is... is ... gone..." "Yes, I see it now," comes the familiar bark. "And Osiris, too, has gone away. The Steel General, he it was." "What shall we do now?" "Nothing. Nothing whatsoever. This turn is even better than we had hoped. Set's occurrence recently by means of the fugue testifies that some cataclysmic event will still shortly occur. Does it not, Set?" "Yes." "Your final clash will doubtless destroy the world." "Probably. I didn't stay." "Yes, there it goes," says Madrak. "Wonderfull Now we have Set; Osiris has been disposed of, and the Steel General is no longer available to pursue us. We have Thoth precisely where we want him. Hail Madrak, new Lord of the House of Life!" "Thank you, Anubis. I didn't think it could be that easily accomplished -- but what of the Nameless?" "Surely it must have fallen this time. What of it, Set?" "I don't know. I struck it with the full force of the wand." "Then everything is tied up neatly. Now hear me, Set. We wish you no ill, nor will we harm your son Thoth. We rescued you when we could have left you to rot -- " "Then why have you secured me thus?" "Because I know your temper and your power, and I wished to reason with you before freeing you. You might not have granted me sufficient opportunity, so I insured it myself. I wish to deal with Thoth through you -- " "Lord!" cries Madrak. "Observe the ruined world! There comes over it a monstrous shadow #" "It is Typhon!" "Yes. What can he be doing?" "What do you know of this, Set?" "It means that I failed, and that somewhere amid the rujns a NameIF less Thing still cries in the night. Typhon is completing the job." "There is fire, master, and -- I cannot look upon the emptiness which occurs!" "Skagganauk Abyss!" CCes," says Set. "Typhon is Skagganauk Abyss. He evicts the Nameless from the universe." "What was the Nameless?" "A god," says Set, "an old god, Pm sure, with nothing left to be dime about any more." "I do not understand," says Madrak. "He jests. But what of Typhon? How shall we deal with him?" "You may not have to," says Set. "What he has done has probably resulted in his own exile from the universe." "Then we have won, Anubis! We have won! Typhon was the only thing you feared, was he not?" "Yes. Now the Midworlds lie for ever within my hands." And mine, don't forget!" "Of course not. So tell me, Set. You see the ways the stars are drifting. Will you join with us? You will become the right hand of Anubis. Your son can be a Regent. He may name his own job, for I do not undervalue his wisdom. What say you?" "I must think of this thing." "To be sure. Take your time. Realize, however, that I am now invincible." "And you realize that I have defeated God in battle." "It could not have been God," says Madrak, "or He would not have been defeated #" "No," says Set. "You saw Him at the end. You witnessed His power. And even now He is not dead, only in exile." Madrak lowers his head, covers his face with his hands. "I do not believe you! I cannot." "But it is true, and you have been party to this thing, oh recreant priest, blasphemer, apostate!" "Silence, Set!" cries Anubis. "Don't listen to him, Madrak. He sees your weakness, as he sees the Weaknesses of all things he encounters. He seeks to draw you onto a battlefield of another sort, one where you struggle against yourself, to be beaten by the guilt he has contrived for you. Ignore him!" "But what if he speaks the truth? I stood by and did nothing -- even profited by -- " "Indeed you did," says Set. "The guilt is mainly mine, but I bear it with pride. You were party to the action,; however. You stood by and watched, thinking of the profit that would come to you, while He whom you served was beaten to His knees -- " Anubis strikes him a terrible blow that rips the flesh of his cheek. "I take it that you have made up your mind, and this is your answer: To try to turn Madrak against me. If will not work. He is not so gullible as you think -- are you, Dad?" Madrak does not answer, but continues to stare out the port. Set struggles against his bonds but cannot loosen them. "Anubisl We are pursued I" Anubis departs Set's side, vanishing into darkness. The lights continue to stab downward. "It is the Chariot of Ten," Anubis says. "Of the Lady Isis?" Madrak inquires. "Why should she follow US?" "Because Set was once her beloved. Perhaps he still is. Eh, Set? What's the story?" But Set does not reply. "Whatever," says Madrak, "it draws nears. How strong is the Red Witch? Will she give us trouble?" "She was not so strong but that she feared her old Lord, Osiris, avoiding him for many centuries -- and I am certainly as strong as Osiris. We will not be beaten by a woman. Not when we have come this far." M adrak bows his head, mumbling, and begins to beat upon his breast. "Stop that I You're bong ridiculous!" But Set laughs, and Anubis turns upon him with a savage snarl. "I'll tear your heart out for that!" But Set raises his bleeding left hand which he has just tom free and holds it before his body. "Try if, dogl Your one hand against mine. Your staff and any other weapon you have against the left hand of Set. Come closer #" And his eyes glow like twin suns and Anubis falls back beyond his grasp. The lights continue to dazzle and #pin. " Rill him Madrakl" cries Anubis. "He is of no further use to us! You wear the gauntlet of power! He cannot stand against it!" But Madrak does not reply, instead, "Forgive me, Whatever You Are or Were, Wherever You May or May Not Be, for omissions and commissions in which I indulged or did not indulge, as the' gase may be, in this matter which has just come to pass," he says, still beating his breast. "And in the event that --  "Then give me the glove!" cries Anubis. "Quickly!" But Madrak continues. A shudder runs through the cockleshell,. and magicians and poets being very good at that sort of thing, a doorway which had been doubly sealed springs open, and Kramin enters. He waves his cane and smiles. "How do?, How do?," IF "Take him, Madrakl" cries Anubis. But yramin advances, and Madrak stares out the window, mumbling. Then Anubis raises his staff before him. "Angel of the Seventh Station, and fallen, depart!" says Anubis. "You use my old title," says Yramin. "I am now Angel of the House of the Dead." "You lie " "No. By appointment of the Prince do I now occupy your forma: position." With a great wrenching movement, Set frees his right hand. Yramin dandles Isis's pendant before him, and Anubis backs away. "Madrak, I bid you destroy this one!" he cries out. "yramin?" says Madrak. "OH, no, not Vramin. He is good. He is my friend." Set frees his right ankle. "Madrak, if you will not destroy yramin, then hold Set!" " 'Thou Who might be our Father who perhaps may be in Heaven...  " Madrak intones. Then Anubis snarls and points his staff like a bazooka at yramin. "Come no further," he announces. But Yramin advances another step. A blaze of light falls upon him, but the red beams from the pendant cancel it out. "Too late, dog," he says. Anubis circles, draws near the port where Madrak stands. Set frees his left ankle, rubs it, stands. "You are dead," says Set, and moves forward. But at this moment, Anubis falls to the knife of Madrak, which (enters his neck above the collar bone. "I meant no harm," says Madrak, "and this is to pay in part for my guilt. The dog led me astray. I repent. I make you a gift of his life." "Thou fool!" says Yramin. "I wanted him prisoner." Madrak begins to weep. Anubis bleeds in red spurts upon the floor of the cockleshell. Set lowers his head slowly and rubs his eyes. "What shall we do now?" asks Yramin. " 'Hallowed be Thy name, if a name Thou hast and any desire to see it hallowed... says Madrak. Set does not answer, having closed his eyes and fallen into a sleep that will last for many days. VI Ophe Citadel of Marachek, empty, ' not empty, empty again. Why?. Listen... Set stands his ground, facing the monster, and it lunges toward him. For a long while they wrestle, there in the courtyard. Then Set breaks its back, and And each time that Set destroys it lies a-groaning. a creature, he turns his eyes once Then Thoth, his son, his father, again toward a place, a moment, the Prince Who Was A Thousand, where he had battled the Nameless opens again the bottle of instant and destroyed a world and where monsters and removes another seed, the dark horse shadow his son Sowing it there in the dust, anrears and blazes; and heeding the other menace blooms beneath his beck of annihilation he moves tohand, then bends toward Set. ward that place, that moment. But The madness that lies within Thoth follows, distracting him with Set's eyes falls upon the creature, monsters. and there is more conflict. This is because Set is destrucStanding above its broken body, tion, and he will destroy himself if Set bows his head and vanishes. there is nothing else that is suitaBut Thoth follows after him sowble at hand or somewhere in sight, ing monsters, and the ghosts of Set in time or in space. But the Prince and the monsters he fights rage is wise and realizes this. This is why through the marble memory that he follows after his father on his is wrecked and rebuilt Marachek. temporal journey toward the altar of annihilation, after his awakening from the trance of battle against the Thing That Cries In The Night. For Thoth knows that if he can distract him long enough from his pilgrimage, new things will arise toward which Set's hand may be turned. This is because such things always arise. But now they move through time, ered from this moment of it -- the wise Prince and his deadly father son -- skirting always the Abyss that is Skagganauk, son, brother and grandson. This is why the ghosts of Set and the monsters he fights rage through the marble memory that is wrecked and rebuilt Marachek, the copy #ii! IF Dear Editor: Isaac Asimov's The Holmes-Ginsbook Device (Dec. If) was a dam funny story, which makes me wish that the Good Doctor would do more writing, other than science-popularization. But, on the first page of the story, the narrator says, "Mike Ginsbook was bom on Jan. #, #, which made him exactly as old as this century." I beg to differ with Dr. Asimov, but if Ginsbook had indeed been born on the #st of January, in #, he would be exactly one year less than the age of that century (i.e., in # Ginsbook would be # years old.) So he must have been bom Jan. #, #. Was that a typographical error, or did My Hero goof? Mack Reynolds's serial The Computer Conspiracy was a very good novel. But I am puzzled about one thing. I am damn sure that this story is the latest in a (more or less) series about such things as Inalienable Basic, teevee wrist phones and the wilds of Brooklin (or is it Manhatan?) which all seem to stem from am If First by the name of Bircher, that was published a year or so ago. But Mack Reynolds (I am fairly sure) has been around a lot longer than a year or two. Where did I go wrong? Did my memory circuits blow a gasket or what? Two final questions: Whatever happened to the If policy of overlapping serials (I miss them)? And whatever happened to the novels by Robert Heinlein you used to print every now and then (I miss them too)? If If continues to be such a fine magazine, it will make a clean sweep years (at least as long as MY vote has anything to say about it. -- ) !!! -- James A. Juracic, P O Box #, Fruitvale, B.C., Canada.  No goof. Figure it for yourself. There was no Year Zero, so January #st of the year I was the first day of the first century; January #st of the year #I will be the first day of the twenty-first century; and so on through the ages. Asimov make a mistake? You must be kidding! About Mack Reynolds: Yes, he's been around quite a while, and isn't the author of Bircher -- different story, different writer. Heinlein: He's still building his super-house, but signs are he may soon be getting back to novels -- at which time we hope to get back to bringing them to yon. Overlapping serials: We stopped overlapping them because we couldn't find enough good serials to keep it up. Writers move in cycles, like lemmings. It looks like the migration is toward good serials again, so maybe we'll be able to overlap them again before long. -- Editor .    Dear Editor: #) Before all else, let me add my congratulations to the multitude's on the occasion of the award to Worlds of If of the Hugo for the third consecutive year! This honey of praise should sweeten the gullet before the gall of stricture, here followi ing, is sipped. Look not behind you to see of the pursuit, nor linger to bask In favor's warmth, for, know that always the competitions' choppers gnash at your heels. A pseudoarchaic touch of Howard or Edison Marshall may well lubricate the accompanying rude shaft of criticism. #) While this writer does, in truth, admire your successful elects cism as editor in selecting (and, no doubt, amending) the contents of Worlds of If, the mechanical and substantiate aspects of the magazine apparently have not had your December, # issue (not even read in full as yet) mechanical errors abound typographically as evinced on pages #, #, and # to exhaust not #) In the fast-paced, thought-provoking and well-enjoyed serial The Computer Conspiracy, its author Mack Reynolds, an omnivorous autodidact by all the signs, states most inaccurately on page # that the Esperanto phrase venu rapide means (page #) kill him . Not so. The significance of these two words is come quickly; to achieve the d esired On page # Reynolds asserts incorrectly that Hungarian's sole linguistic relative in Europe is Finnish. Not so. Not affluent perhaps, but an indubitable relative (cognate, even, to Finnish) is Estonian. And some would add, as second cousin perhaps, Turkish which retains a small but definite toehold in Europe. All these last could have been precluded by an glert researcher through a phone call or three to some knowledgable source Ight there in mighty, if slowly de-i composing. New York. Now, it is not suggested that in addition to your other duties you assume directly those of proofreader and researcher (but then, why not?!); however, as editor, you are responsible for all literary material appearing in your magazine, and therefore you should exercise a firmer control over its ap- pearance and content -- as a matter of your editorial reputation, if nothing else, don't you agree? #) Alas, in most laurel wreaths are concealed a few thorns. If moved thereto, hopefully a few more of the former could appear in the future from your scabrous, but loyal subscriber -- R. C. Marble, P O Box #, Reseda, California #.  Mea culpa. Esteemed Subscriber. Typographical vicissitudes (and aucIF tonal misdemeanors) inevitably redound discreditably to redactive reputations. Yet pari passu, what is one to do when previously normative par- ameters enter a heteroscedastic phase? -- Editor.  # # . Dear Editor: "Science-fiction' it says here on the cover of . So what's Creatures of Light, a fantasy by Roger Zelazny, doing here? I don't like fantasy, like religion, it is the product of human imagination with no basis in fact. That's where religion came from. If I want to read fantasy I'll read the BiUe. -- Roger Frohn,    Dear Editor: Mack Reynolds, an entertaining author and constructor of ingeni ous tales, needs some editorial assistance. He is obsessed with the idea that proper development of his characters requires "Cuteness" and a slang to which he tries to impute currency: Zoroaster, trank, wizard, chum-pal, fuaker, whisdin Dixie, lush, guzzle, ddL Some are his and some are borrowed, and none are good. If he must use such blunt tools, he should at least research thorn to the extent of observing their shortness of span in real life. Can't yon help him? and me? -- W. F, Poynter, # Monterey Boulevard, San Francisco, California #.    Dear Editor: Since you read all the stories submitted and decide which stories are to be published (as you state in Hue  Cry ) exactly what do the Managing and Associate Editors do? I had always thought that they screened the stories first and sent die best to you for final selection. I bought Worlds of Fantasy . It's excellent. More, please! -- Fred F. Jackson ID, # Ddlwood, Pontiac, Michigan #.  What do they do? Why they do all the hard work, of course -- proofreading, manuscript editing, dealing with artists, etc while The Editor lounges at his ease, eating chocolates and reading stories. R.H.I.P . -- Editor. March #, #. First Annual ConferMoe cm the 'bibliography of Science Fiction," sponsored by the Fantasy and Science Fiction Society of Columbia University. At the Harkness Theater, Butler Library, Columbia University, New York City, from #:#-#:# P.M. There will be an exhibition of bibliographical and scholarly works on science fiction. The program wUl include presentations by librarians, bibliographers, collectors, etc. For information: Fred Lemer, #-B, The Boulevard, Bast Paterson, New Jersey #. Street, Newark, New Jersey #. Genral theme: "Looking Backward: #," Changes in the SF Field in the Last Thirty Years. Admission: #. For Information: Allen Howard, # Grafton Avenue, Newark, New Jersey #. the Statler-Hilton, Boston, Massachusetts. Guest of Honor: Jack Gaughan. Membership #. For information: New England Science Fiction Association, Box G, sachusetts #. the Holiday East Motel, Columbus, Ohio #. Guest of Honor: Terry Carr. Features: Panel Discussions, Open Party, Banquet. Registration fee: #. Banquet Ticket: #. For information: Bob Ohio #. the Hotel Andrews, #th Street at Hennepin, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Guests of Honor: Charles V. De Vet, Gordon R. Dickson, Carl Jacobi, Clifford D. Simak. Membership: # -- register' now and receive two progress reports. For information: Jim Young, # Ulysses Street Make checks or money-orders payable to Mrs. Margaret Lessinger. N.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota #. Hotel, Oxford, England.' Guest of Honor: Judith Merril. For information in the nue, Los Angeles, California #. of Honor: Robert (Doc) A. W. Lowndes. At the Hotel McAlpin, New York City. Advance membership #, or # at the door. Two Progress Reports will be sent to members. For information: Franklin M. Dietz, # Walton Avenue, Bronx. New York #. line Inn, South Capitol and I Street, S.W. Washington D.C. Guest of Honor: Lester del Rey. Membership: #, in advance; #, at the door. For information: Jay Haldeman, # Woodboume Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland #. burgh regional convention). At Allegheny Motor Inn, # Beerschool Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Guest of Honor: Robert Silverberg. Features a banquet. Membership: #, in advance, #, at the door. For information: #I Wightman, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #. four or six weeks, and college credit may be granted. Faculty: Robin Scott, Frederik Pohl, Fritz Leiber, Harlan Ellison, Damon Knight and Kate Wilhelm. The cost is # for each two-week segmant and includes full room and board. For information: Robin Scott Wilson, English Department, Clarion State College, Clarion Pennsylvania #. The North Plaza Motel, #I Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio. For reservation blanks and information: Lou Tabakow, # St. Johns Terrace, Cincinnati, Ohio #. Monica, California. Guest of Honor: Randall Garrett. Fan Guest of Honor: Roy Tackett, Toastmaster: Harlan Ellison. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. A supporting membership of # entitles you to all publications. For Monica, California #. Make checks payable to Ken Rudolph. August #September #, #. ST. Convention. At Chase-Park Plaza Hotel, # N. Kingshighway, St. Louis, Missouri #. Guest of Honor: Jack Gaughan. Fan Guest of Honor: Ted White. Features: Project Art Show; Masquerade Ball; All-night movies -- every night; Rock Band; Panels and speeches featuring all your favorite writers, editors, and artists; Auctions; Awards Banquet and the Presentation of the Hugos. Memberships: #, attending; #, supporting. Join now and receive all the progress reports as they are published. For information: St. Louiscon, P.O. Box #, St. Louis, Missouri #. Make checks payable to St. Louiscon. IF We've heard the sad story over and over at science-fiction meetings. Some reader was right in the middle of one of our award-winning serials when his magazine dealer goofed, and he missed an issue. Or he found the stand all sold out and never read the novelette every other fan is raving about now. Naturally, nobody wants to miss an issue of IF -- the magazine that won the Hugo as Best in the field at the past two World Science Fiction Conventions. And surely nobody will want to miss the great stories and brand new features we are already scheduling for the future issue of IF. We try to make sure there are enough copies for every reader, but we can't guarantee that you won't miss an issue, unfortunately. Only you can do that. And it's really quite simple and will even save you money. Just fill in the coupon below -- or if you hate to mutilate the magazine, write the information on a sheet of plain paper -- and mail it today! Then nobody will pity you, because you'll be sure of getting every vital issue of IF! #I Hudson Street New York, New York # Yes, start my subscription to Worlds of If right away. I enclose my check or money order for:  # issues for #  # issues for #  # issues for # Name Address City  State Zip Code Prices outside of the Western Hemisphere add # per year for postage. Please check whether  new or  renewal won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh mtr Name iHerr No. CM-# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: 'No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep."  ffff A New Science-Adventure Novel We've heard the sad story over and over at science-fiction meetings. Some reader was right in the middle of one of our award-winning serials when his magazine dealer goofed, and he missed an issue. Or he found the stand all sold out and never read the novelette every other fan is raving about now. Naturally, nobody wants to miss an issue of IF -- the magazine that won the Hugo as Best in the field at the past two World Science Fiction Conventions. And surely nobody will want to miss the great stories and brand new features we are already scheduling for the future issue of IF. We try to make sure there are enough copies for every reader, but we can't guarantee that you won't miss an issue, unfortunately. Only you can do that. And it's really quite simple and will even save you money. Just fill in the coupon below -- or if you hate to mutilate the magazine, write the information on a sheet of plain paper -- and mail it today! Then nobody will pity you, because you'll be sure of getting every vital issue of IF! #I Hudson Street New York, New York # Yes, start my subscription to Worlds of If right away. I enclose my check c money order for:  # issues for #  # issues for #  # issues for # Name Address City  State Zip Code Prices outside of the Western Hemisphere add # per year for postage. Please check whether  new or  renewal Vol #, No. # Frederik Pohl, Edifor Lester del Rey, Managing Editor Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circula tion Director by Keith Laumer by Andre Norton by E. G. Von Wald by Lawrence Mayer by Roger Deeley by Luigi Cozzi by Frederik Pohl by Lester del Rey IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation. Robert M. Guinn President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # Issues # In the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons Is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # IF  Editorial What We Think With B y now we all have heard about Australopithecus africanus and Professor Leakey's paradoxical conjecture that it isn't really so much true that man invented tools as it is that tools invented mam We've discussed the reasoning involved in these pages before: How the large bones the idiot Australopithecines used to kill their prey and theii enemies -- the first tools -- demanded more agility in their use; how the increased mobility demanded increased nerve connections; how the increased sensory and nK)tor nerve networks demanded increased central nervous systems -- that is, brains. But we've never before discussed what those brains are. A new book by an old friend of Galaxy and If readers, H. Chandler Elliott -- who is not only a sciencefiction writer as time permits, but a professor of anatomy, neurology and psychiatry at the University of Nebraska College of Medicine -- gives us as full a look at the structure and workings of the brain as we have ever seen. (It's called The Shape of Intelligence, and it's just published by Scribners.) It's a beautiful book, handsomely illustrated by Anthony Ravielli -- almost too beautiful in a way, since it's very likely that a number of copies will wind up on someone's coffee table and will never be cracked except to admire the pretty illustrations. That will be a pity. For the trouble with the world, ih the troubles with the world, rest on what men do to it; and the only hope of curing them rests on understanding why men do what they do. And one cannot understand men's minds without understanding the hardware that generates and forms them, the brain and nervous system. It takes Professor Elliott nearly # pages to tell us what is now known about the brain. We can't cover it in the space we have on this page. But he does -- very authoritatively, clearly and provocatively -- and we commend the book to you. We've known all along that some of the best science-fiction writers were scientists; we're glad to get further proof of the corollary, in books like this one. What distinguishes a first-rate scientist from a clod is his imagination and understanding. And we think that's why it appears to be so that some of the best scientists are science-fiction writers, IF  SerM Tamisan built dreams for others. But now she was trapped in nightmare -- and her dream was reality! I # Che is certified by the Foostmam, Lord Starrex. A true action dreamer to the tenth power' Jabis was being too eager, or almost so; he was pushing too much, Tamisan sneered mentally, keeping her face carefully blank, though she took quick glances about from beneath half-closed eyelids. This sale very much concerned her, since she was the product being discussed, but she had nothing to say in the matter. She supposed this was a typical sky tower, seeming to float, masked in clouds at times, since its supports were so slender and well concealed, lifting it high above TyKry. However, none of the windows gave on real sky, but each framed a yery different landscape, illustrating what must be other planet scenes. Perhaps some were dream remembered or inspired. There was a living lambil grass carpet aroirnd the easirest on which the owner half lay, half sat. But Jabis had not even been offered a pull-down wall seat. And the two other men in attendance on Lord Starrex stood also. They were real men and not androids, which placed the owner in the multicredit class. One, Tamisan thought was a body-guard, and the other, younger, thinner, with a dissatisfied mouth, had on clothing nearly equal to that of the man on the easirest but with a shade of difference which meant a lesser place in the housdiold. Tamisan catalogued what she could see and filed it away for future reference. Most dreamers did not observe much of the world about them. They were too enmeshed in their own creations to care for reality. Most dreamers... Tamisan frowned. She was a dreamer. Jabis and the Foostmam could prove that The lounger on the easirest could prove it if he paid Jabis' price. But she was also something more. Tamisan herself was not quite sure what And that there was a difference in her, she had had mother wit enough to conceal since she had first been aware that the others in the Foostmam's Hive were not able to come cleanly out of their dreams into the here and now. Why, some of them had to be fed, clothed, cared for as if they were not aware they had any bodies! "Action dreamer." Lord Starrex shifted his shoulders against the padding which immediately accommodated itself to his stirring to give him maximum comfort. "Action dreaming is a little childish -- " Tamisan's control held, but she felt inside her a small flare of anger. Childish was it? She would like to show him just how childish a dream she could spin to enmesh a client. But Jabis was not in the least moved by that derogatory remark from a possible purchaser; it was in his eyes only a logical bargaining move. "If you wish an E dreamer -- " He shrugged. "But your demand to the Hive specified an A." TTe was daring to be a little  abrupt. Was he so sure of this lord as all that? He must have some inside information which allowed him to be so confident. For Jabis could cringe and belly-down in awe like the lowest beggar if he thought such a gesture needful to gain a credit or two. IF "Kas, this is your idea. What is she worth?" Starrex asked indifferently. The younger of his companions moved forward a step or two. He was the reason for her being here -- Lord Kas, cousin to the owner of all this magnificance; though certainly not, Tamisan had already deduced, with any authority in the household. But the fact that Starrex lay in the easirest was not dictated by indolence, but rather by what was hidden by the fas-silk laprobe concealing half his body. A man who might not walk straight again could find pleasure in the abilities of an action dreamer. "She has a ten-point rating," Kas reminded the other. The black brows which gave a stern set to Starrex's features arose a trifle. "Is that so?" Jabis was quick to take advantage. "It is so. Lord Starrex. Of all this year's swarm, she rated the highest. It was -- is -- the reason why we make this offer to your lordship." "I do not pay for reports only," returned Starrex. Jabis was not to be ruffled. "A point ten, my lord, does not give demonstrations. As you know, the Hive accrediting can not be forged. It is only because I have urgent business in Brok and must leave for there that I am selling her at all. Though I have had an offer from the Foostmam herself to retain this one for lease-outs -- Tamisan, had she had anything to wager or someone with whom to wager it, would have set the winning of this bout with her uncle. Uncle? To Tamisan's thinking she had no blood tie with this small insect of a man -- with his wrinkled face, his never-still eyes, his thin hands with their half-crooked fingers always reminding one of claws outstretched to grab and grab and grab. Surely her mother must have been very unlike Uncle Jabis, or else how could her father ever have seen aught worth bedding -- not for just one night but for half a year -- in her? Tot for the first time her thoughts were on the riddle of her parents. Her mother had not been a dreamer -- though she had had a sister who had regrettably -- for the sake of the family fortune -- died in the Hive during adolescent stimulation as an E dreamer. Her father had been from offworld -- an alien, though humanoid enough to crossbreed. And he had disap)eared again off-world when his desire for star roving had become too strong to master. Had it not been that she had early shown dreamer talent. Uncle Jabis and the rest of the greedy Yeska clan would never have taken any thought of her after her mother had died of the blue plague. She was crossbred and had intelligence enough to guess early that this had given her the difference between her powers and those of others in the Hive. The ability to dream was an in-bom talent. For those of low power, it was an indwelling withdrawal from the world. And those dreamers were largely useless. But the ones who could project dreams to include others -- through linkage -- brought high prices, according to the strength and stability of their creations. E dreamers who created erotic and lascivious otherworlds once rated more highly than action dreamers. But of late years, the swing had been in the opposite direction, though how long that might hold no one could guess. And those lucky enough to have an A dreamer to sell were pushing their wares speedily lest the market decline. Tamisan's hidden talent was that she herself was never as completely lost in the dream world as those she conveyed to it. Also -- and this she had discovered very recently and hugged that discovery to her -- she could in a measure control the linkage so she was never a powerless prisoner forced to dream at another's desire. She considered now what she knew concerning this Lord Starrex. That Jabis would sell her to the owner of one of the sky towers had been clear from the first. And naturally he would select what he thought would be the best bargain. But, though rumors wafted through the Hive, Tamisan believed that much of their news of the outer world was inaccurate and grabbled. Dreamers were roofed and walled from any real meeting with everyday life, their talents feverishly fed and fostered by long sessions with tri-dee projectors and information tapes. Qtarrex, unlike most of his class,  had been a doer. He had broken the pattern of caste by going off-world on lengthy trips. It was only after some mysterious accident had crippled him that he became a recluse, supposedly hiding a maimed body. And he did not seem like those others who had come to the Hive seeking wares. Of course, it had been the tord Kas who had summoned them here. Stretched out on the easirest with that cover of fabulous silk across most of his body, he was hard to judge. But, she thought, standing he would top Jabis, and he seemed to be well muscled, more like his guardsman than his cousin. He had a face unusual in its plans, broad across the forehead and cheek bones, then slimming to a strong chin which narrowed to give his head a vaguely wedgeshaped line. He was dark-skinned, almost as dark as a space crewman. IF His hair was black, cut very short so that it was a tight velvety cap, in contrast to the longer strands of his cousin. His tunic -- lutrax of a copperyrust shade -- was of rich material but less ornamated than that of the younger man. Its sleeves were wide and loose, and now and then he ran his hands up his arms, pushing the fabric away from his skin. He wore only a single jewel, a koros stone set in an earring as a drop which dangled forward against his jaw line. Tamisan did not consider him handsome. But there was something arresting about him. Perhaps it was his air of arrogant assm:ance, as if in all his life he had never had his wishes crossed. He had not met Jabis before; and perhaps now even Lord Starrex would have something to learn. Twist and turn, indignant and persuasive, using every trick in a very considerable training for dealing and under-dealing, Jabis bargained. He appealed to gods and demons to witness his disinterested desire to please, his despair at being misunderstood. It was quite a notable act, and Tamisan stored up some of the choicer bits in her mental reservoir for the making of dreams. It was far more stimulating to watch then a tri-dee, and die wondered why this living drama material was not made available to the Hive. Unless, of course, the Foostmam and her assistants feared it, along with any shred of reality which might awaken the dreamers from their conditioned albsorption in their own creations. For an instant or two she wondered if the Lord Starrex was not enjoying it too. There was a kind of weariness in his face which suggested boredom, though that was the norm for anyone wanting a personal dreamer. Then suddenly as if he were tired of it all, he Interrupted one of Jabis' more impassioned pleas for celestial understanding of his need for receiving a just price with a single sentence. "I tire, fellow. Take your price and go." He closed his eyes in dismissal. II Tt was the guard who drew a credit plaque from his belt, swung a long arm over the back of the easirest for Lord Starrex to plant a thumb on its surface to certify payment, and then tossed it to Jabis. It fell to the floor so the small man had to scrabble for it mih his finger claws, and Tamisan saw the look in his darting eyes. Jabis had little liking for Lord Starrex -- which did not mean, of course, that he disdained the credit plaque he had to stoop to catch up. He did not give a glance to Tamisan as he bowed himself out. And IF she was left standing as if she were an android or a machine. It was the LfOrd Kas who stepped forward, touched her lightly on the arm as if he thought she needed guidance. "Come,' he said, and his fingers about her wrist drew her after him. The Lord Starrex took no notice of his new possession. "What is your name?" Lord Kas spoke slowly, emphasizing each word as if he needed to do so to pierce some veil between them. Tamisan guessed that he had had contact with a lower-rated dreamer, one who was always bemused in the real world. Caution suggested that she allow him to believe she was in a similiar daze. So she raised her head slowly, and looked at him, trying to give the appearance of one finding it difficult to focus. "Tamisan," she answered after a lengthy pause. "I be Tamisan." "Tamisan -- that is a pretty name," he said as one would address a dull-minded child. "I am Lord Kas. I am your friend." But Tamisan, sensitive to shades of voice, thought she had done well in pla#dng bemused. Whatever Kas might be, he was not her friend, at least not unless it served his purpose. "These rooms are yours." He had escorted her down a hall to a far door where he passed his hand over the surface in a pattern to break some light-lock. Then his grip on her wrist brought her into a Iiigh-ceilinged room. There were no windows to break its curve of wall. The place was oval in shape. The center fell in a series of wide, shallow steps to a pool where a small fountain raised a perfumed mist to patter back into a bonewhite basin. And on the steps were a number of cushions and soft lieons, all of many delicate shades of blue and green. While the oval walls were covered with a shimmer of rippling zidex webbing -- pale gray covered with whirls and lines of palest green. A great deal of care had gone into the making and furnishing of that room. Perhaps she was only the latest in a series of dreamers, for this was truly the rest place -- raised to a point of luxury unknown even in the Hive -- for a dreamer. A strip of the web tapestry along the wall was raised, and a personal-care android entered. The head was only an oval ball with faceted eye-plates and hearing sensors to break its surface, its unclothed, humanoid form ivory white. "This is Porpae," Kas told her. "She will watch over you." My guard, Tamisan thought. That the care the android would give her would be unceasing and of the best, she did net doubt, any more than that the ivory being would stand between her and any hope of freedom. "If you have any wish, tell it to Porpae." Kas droid his hold on her arm, turned to the door. "When the Lord Starrex wishes to dream he wiU send for you." "I am at his command," she mumbled the proper response. She watched Kas leave and then looked to Porpae. Tamison had good cause to believe that the android was programmed to record her every move. But would anyone here believe that a dreamer had any desire to be free? A dreamer wished only to dream; it was her life, her entire life. And to leave a place which did all to foster such a life -- that would be akin to self-killing, something a certified dreamer could not think of. "I hunger," she told the android. "I would eat." "Food comes." Porpae went to the wall and swept aside the web once more to display a series of buttons she pressed in a complicated manner. When the food arrived in a closed tray with the viands each in its own hot or cold compartment, Tamisan ate. She recognized the usual dishes of a dreamer's diet, but better cooked and more tastily served than in the Hive. She ate; she made use of the bathing place Porpae guided her to behind another wall web, and she slept easily and without stirring on the cushions beside the pool where the faint play of the water lulled her gently. Time had very little meaning in the oval room. She ate, slept, bathed and looked upon thetridees she asked Porpae to supply. Had she been as the others from the Hive, this existence would have been ided. But instead, when there was no call to display her art, she grew restless. She was prisoner here, and none of the other inhabitants of the sky tower seemed aware of her. There was one thing she could do, Tamisan decided upon her second waking. A dreamer was allowed -- no, required -- to study the personality of the master she must serve, if she were a private dreamer and not a leasee of the Hive. She had a right now to ask for tapes concerning Starrex. In fact, it might be considered odd if she did not, and accordingly she called for those. Thus she learned something of r master and his household. Kas had had his personal fortune wiped out by some catastrophe when he was a diild. He had been in a manner adopted by Starrex's father, the head of their clan, and since Starrex's injuries Kas had acted in some fashion as his deputy. The guard was Ulfilas, an offworld mercenary Starrex had brought back from one of his star voyages. IF Tut Starrex, save for a handful of bare facts, remained more or less of an enigma. That he had any human responses to others Tamisaiv began to doubt. He had gone seeking change off-world, but what he might have found there had not cured his eternal weariness of life. And his personal recordings were meager. She now believed that, to him, any one of his household was only a tool to be used or swept from his path and ignored. He was unmarried and such feminine companionship as he had languidly attached to his household -- and that more by the effort of the woman involved than through any direct action on his part -- did not last long. In fact, he was so encased in a shell of indifference that Tamisan wondered if there was any longer a real man within that outer covering. She began to speculate as to why he had allowed Kas to bring her as an addition to his belongings. To make the best use of a dreamer, the owner must be rea to partake, and what she reaa in these tapes suggested that Starrex's indifference would raise a barrier to any real dreaming. But the more Tamisan learned in this negative fashion, the more it seemed a challenge. She lay beside the pool in deep thought -- though that thought strayed even more than she herself guessed from the rigid mental exercises used by a point ten dreamer. To deliver a dream which would captivate Starrex was indeed a challenge. He wanted action, but her training, acute as it had been, was not enough to entice him. Therefore -- her action must be able to take a novel turn. This was an age of over-sophistication -- when star travel was a fact, when outer action existed in reality. And by these tapes, though they were not detailed as to what Starrex had done off-world, the lord had experienced much -- the reality of his time. So -- he must be served the unknown. She had read nothing in the tapes to suggest that Starrex had sadistic or perverted tendencies. And she knew if he were to be reached in such a fashion, she was not the one to do it. Also Kas would have stated such a requirement at the Hive. There were many rolls of history on which one could draw -- but those had also been mined and remined. The future -- that again had been over-used, frayed. Tamisan 's dark brows drew together above her closed eyes. Trite -- everything she thought of was trite! Why did she care anyway? She did not even know why it had become so strong a drive to build a dream that, when she was called upon to deliver it, would shake Starrex out of his shell -- to prove to him that she was worth her rating. Maybe it was partly because he had made DO move to send for her and try to prove her powers, his indifference suggesting that he thought she had nothing to offer. 'apes -- she had the right to call upon the full library of the Hive, and it was the most complete in the star lanes. Why, ships were sent out for no other reason than to bring back new knowledge to feed the imaginations of the dreamers! History. Her mind kept returning to the past, though it was too thread-bare for her purposes. History -- what was history? A series of events -- actions by individuals, or nations. Actions had results. Tamisan sat up among her cushions. Results of action! Sometimes there were far-reaching results from a single action -- the death of a ruler, the outcome of one battle, the landing of a star ship -- or its failure to land. So -- Her flicker of idea became solid. History could have had many roads to travel beside the one already known. Now -- could she make use of that? Why, it had imuunerable possibilities! Tamisan's hands clenched the robe lying across her knees. Study -- she would have to study! And if Stajrex only gave her more time... She no longer resented his indifference now. She would need every minute it was prolonged. "Porpae!" The android materialized from behind the web. "I must have certain tapes from the Hive." Tamisan hesitated. In spite of the spin of impatience, she must build smoothly and surely. "A message to the Foostmam: send to Tamisan n' Starrex the rolls of the history of Ty-Kry for the past five hundred years." The history of a single city and that of the one which based this sky tower! Begin small so she could test and retest her idea. Today a single city, tomorrow a world, and then -- who knew -- perhaps a solar system! She reined in her excitement. There was much to do. She needed a note recorder -- and time. But by the Four Breasts of Vlasta -- if she could do it! It would seem she would have time, though always at the back of Tamisan's mind was the small spark of fear that at any moment the summons to Starrex might come. But the tapes arrived from the Hive and the recorder, so that die swung from one to the other, taking notes from what she learned. Then after the tapes had been retinned, she studied those notes feveridily. Now her idea meant more to her than just a device to amuse a difficult master; it absorbed her utterly, as if she were a low-grade IF dreamer caught in one of her own creations. When Tamisan realized the danger of this, she broke with her studies and turned back to the household tapes to learn again what she could of Starrex. T)ut she was again running through her notes when at last the summons came. How long she had been in Starrex's tower she did not know, for days and nights in the oval room were all alike. Only Porpaes watchfulness had kept her to a routine of eating and rest. It was the Lord Kas who came for her, and she had just time to remember her role of bemused dreamer as he entered. "You are well and happy?" He used the conventional greeting. "I enjoy the good life." "It is the Lord Starrex's wish that he enter a dream." Kas reached for her hand, and she allowed his touch. "The Lord Starrex demands much. Offer him your best, dreamer." He might have been warning her. "A dreamer dreams," she answered him vaguely. "What is dreamed can be shared." "True. But the Lord Starrex is hard to please. Do your best for him, dreamer." She did not answer, and he drew her on, out of the room to a grav shaft and down that to a lower level. The room into which they finally went had the apparatus very familiar to her -- a couch for the dreamer, the second for the sharer with the linkage machine between. But here was a third couch. Tamisan looked at it in surprise. "Two dream, not three." Kas shook his head. "It is the Lord Starrex's will that another shares also. The linkage is of a new model, very powerful. It has been well tested." Who would be that . third? Ulfilas? Was it that Lord Starrex thought he must take his personal guard into a dream with him? The door swung open again, and Lord Starrex entered. He walked stiffly, one leg swinging wide as if he could not bend the knee nor control the muscles, and he leaned heavily on an android. As the servant lowered him onto the couch, he did not look to Tamisan but nodded curtly to Kas. "Take your place also," be ordered. Did Starrex fear the dream state and want his cousin as a check because Kas had plainly dreamed before? Then Starrex turned to her as he reached for the dream cap, cop#dng the motion by which she settled her own circlet on her head. "Let us see what you can do." There was a shadow of hostility in his voice, a challenge to produce something which he did not believe she could do. Ill S he mus not allow herself to think of Starrex now, only of her dream She must create and have no fear that her creation would be less perfect than her hopes. Tamisan dosed her eyes, firmed her will and drew into her imagination all the threads of the studies' spinning. She began the weaving of a dream. For a moment, perhaps two fingers' count of moments, this was like the beginning of any dream and then --  She was not looking on, watching intently, critically, a fabric she spim with dexterity. No, it was rather as if that web suddenly became real and she was caught tightly in it, even as a blue-winged drotail might be enmeshed in a foss-spider's deadly nest curtain I This was no dreaming such as Tamisan had ever known before, and panic gripped so harshly in her throat and chest that she might have screamed, save that she had no voice left. She fell down and down from a point above, to strike among bushes which took some of her weight, but with an impact which left her bruised and half senseless. She lay immoving, gasping, her eyes closed, fearing to open them to see that she was indeed caught in a wild nightmare and not properly dreaming. As she lay there, she came slowly out of her dazed bewilderment; she tried to get c#ntrol not only oyer her fear but hea: akeaming powers. Then she ppeg her eyes cautiouslyAn arch of sky was overhead, palidly green, with traces, like long, clutching fingers, of thin gray cloud. As real as any sky might be, did she walk imder it in her own time and world. Her own time and world! The idea she had built upon to astound Starrex came back to her now. Had the fact that she had worked with a new theory, trying to bring a twist to dreaming which might pierce the indifference of a bored man precipitated this? Tamisan sat up, wincing at the protest of her bruises, to look about her. Her vantage point was the crest of a small knob of earth. But the land about her was no wilderness. The turf was smooth and cropped, and here and there were outcrops of rock cleverly carved and clothed with flowering vines -- some of them; others were starkly bare, brooding. And all faced down slope to a wall. These forms varied from vaguely acceptable humanoid shapes to grotesque monsters. And Tamisan decided that she liked the aspect of none when she studied them more closely. There were not of her imagining. Beyond the wall began a cluster of buildings. Used to seeing the sky towers and the lesser, if more substantial structures beneath those IF which were of her own world, these looked unusually squat and heavy. The highest she could see from here was no more than three stories. Men did not build to the stars here, they hugged the earth closely. Tut where was here? Not her dream -- Tamisan closed her eyes and concentrated on the beginnings of her planned dream. ' That had been about going into another world, bom of her imagining, yes -- but not this I Her basic idea had been simple enough, if not one which had been used to her knowledge by any dreamer before her. It all hinged on the idea that the past history of her world had been altered many times during its flow -- and she had taken three keypoints of alteration, studied on what might have resulted had those been given the opposite decision by fate. Now, keeping her eyes firmly closed against this seeming reality into which she had fallen, Tamisan concentrated with fierce intentness upon her chosen points. "The Welcome of the OverQueen Ahta -- " she recited the first. What if the first star ship on its landing had not been accepted as a supernatural event and the small kingdom in which it had touched earth had not accepted its crew as godlings, but rather had greeted them instead with those poisoned darts the spacemen had later seen used? That was her first dedsion. "The loss of the Wanderer." That was the second. A colony ship driven far from its assigned course by computer failure, so that it had had to make a landing here or let its passengers die. If that failure had not occmred and the Wanderer not landed to start an unplanned colony... "The death of Sylt the SweetTongued before he reached the Altar of Ictio." A prophet who might never have arisen to ruthless power, leading to a blood-crazed insurrection from temple to temple, setting darkness on three-quarters of this world. She had chosen those points, but she had not even been sure that one might not have canceled out another. Sylt had led the rebellion against the colonists from the Wanderer. If the welcome had not occurred... Tamisan could not be sure -- she had only tried to find a pattern sequence of events and then envision a modern world stemming from those changes. However  -- she opened her eyes again -- this was not her imagined world I Nor did one in a dream rub bruises, sit on damp sod, feel wind pull at clothes, and allow the first patter of rain to wet hair and robe. She put both hands to her head -- what of the dream cap? Her fingers found a weaving of metal right enough, but there were DO cords from it. And for the first time she remembered that she had been link with Starrex and Kas when this happened. jamisah got to her feet to look around her, half expecting to see the other two somewhere near. But she was alone, and the rain was falling heavier. There was a roofed space near the wall, and Tamisan hurried for it. Thred twisted pillars supported a small dome of roof. There were no Wa, and she huddled in the very center, trying to escape the wind-bome moisture. She cotild not keep pushing away the feeling that this was no dream but true reality. If -- if one could dream imel Tamisan fought panic and tried to examine the possibilities. Eai she somehow landed in a Ty-Kry which might have existed had her three checkpoints actually been the decisions she envisioned? If so -- could one get back by simply visioning them in reverse? She shut her eyes and concentrated... T here was a sensation of stomach-turning giddiness. She swung out, to be jerked back -- swung out, to return once more. Shaking with nausea, Tamisan stopped trying. She shuddered, opening her eyes to the rain. Then again she strove to understand what had happened. That swing had in it some of the sensation of dream breaking. It didi Which meant that she was in a eam. But it was just as apparent that she had been held priscmer here. How? And why? Or -- her eyes narrowed a little, though she was looking inward, not at the rainmisted garden before her -- by whom?, Suppose -- suppose one or both of those who had prepared to share her dream had also come into this place -- though not right here -- then she must find them. They must return together or the missing one would anchor the others. Find them -- and now! For the first time she looked down at the garment clinging dank and damp to her slender body. It was not the gray slip of a dreamer, for it was long, brushing her ankles. And in color it was a dusky violet, a shade she found strangely pleasing and right. Frmn its hem to her knees there was a border of intricate embroidery so entwined and ornate that she found it hard to define in any detail, though it seemed oddly enough that the longer she studied it, the more it appeared to be not threads on cloth, W words on a page of manuscript such as she had viewed in the ancient history video tapes. The threads were a metallic green and silver, with only a few minor touches of a lighter shade of violet. Around her waist was a belt of silver links, clasped by a broad IF buckle of the same metal set with purple stones. This supported a pouch with a metal top. The dress or robe was laced from the belt to her throat with silver cords run through metal eyelets in the material. And her sleeves were long and full, though from the elbow down they were slit to four parts, those fluttering away from her arms when she raised them to loose the crown. What she brought away from her head was not the familiar skull cap made to fit over her cropped hair. Rather it was a circlet of silver with inner wires or strips rising to a conical point that added a foot or more to her height. On that point was a beautifully-fashioned flying thing, its wings a little lifted as if to take off, the glitter of tiny jewels marking its eyes. It was so made that, as she turned the crown around, its long neck changed position and the wings moved a fraction. Thus at first sh# was almost startled enough to drop the circlet, thinking it might just be alive. But the whole she recognized from one of the history tapes. The bird was the flacar of Olava. Wearing it so meant that she was a Mouth! A Mouth of Olava -- half priestess, part sorceress -- and oddly enough, entertainer. But fortune had favored her in this; a Mouth of Olava might wander anywhere without question, searching, and seem merely to be about her normal business. Tamisan ran her hand over her head before she replaced the crown. Her fingers did not find the bristly stubble of a dreamer, but rather soft, mist-damped strands which curled down long enough to brush her forehead and tuft at the nape of her neck. Qhe had imagined garments for herself in dreams, of course. But this time she had not provided herself with such, and so the fact that she stood as a Mouth of Olava was part of the time of the OverQueen's rule. Had she somehow swept herself back in time? The sooner she found knowledge of where -- and when -- she was, the better. The rain was slackening and Tamisan moved out from under the dome. She bunched up her robe in both hands to dimb back up the slope. At its top she turned slowly, trying to find some proof that she had not been tossed alone into this strange world. Save for the figures of stone and beds of rank-looking growth, there was nothing to be seen. The wall and the dome structure lay below. But when she faced about, there was a second slope leading to a still higher point which was crowned by a roof to be seen only in bits and patches through a screen of oarn trees. The roof had a ridge which terminated at either side in a sharp upcurve, giving the building the odd appearance of an ear on either end. And it was green with a glitin spite of the. clouds overhead. To her right and left Tamisan caught glimpses of the wall curving, and more stone figures with flower or shrub plantings. Gathering up her skirts more firmly, she began to walk up the cinve of the higher slope in search of some road or path leading to the roof. She came across what she sought as she detoured to avoid a thicket of heavy brush in which were impaled huge scarlet flowers. It was a wide roadway paved with small colored pebbles imbedded in a solid surface, and it led from an open gateway up the swell of the slope to the front of the rear structure. In shape the building was vaguely familiar, though Tamisan could not identify it. Unless is resembled something she had seen in the tridees. The door was of the same walls were a pale yellow, cut sharply at regular intervals by windows, very narrow, and so tall that they ran from floor to roof level. Even as she stood there wondering where she had seen such a house before, a woman came out. Like Tamisan she wore a long skirted robe with laced bodice and slit sleeves. But hers was the same green as that of the door, so that, standing against it, only her head and arms were clearly visible. She gestured with vigor, and Tamisan suddenly realized that it must be she who was being summoned -- as if she were expected Again she fought down imease. In a dream she was well used to meetings and partings, but always those were of her own devising, did not happen for a purpose which was not of her wish. Her dream peqple were toys, game pieces, to be moved hither and thither at her will, she being always in command over them. "Tamisan -- they wait -- come quickly!" The woman called. IV 'amisan was minded in that instant to run in the other direction. But the need to learn what had happened to her made her take what might be the dangerous course of joining the woman. "Fah -- you are wet! This is no hour for walking in the garden. The First Standing asks for a reading from the Mouth. If you would have lavishly from her purse, hurry lest she grows too impatient to wait!" The door gave upon a narrow entryway, and the woman in green propelled Tamisan toward a second opening directly facing her. She came so into a large room where a IF circle of couches was centered. By each stood a small table now burdened with dishes which serving maids were bearing away as if a meal had just been concluded. And tall candlesticks, matching Tamisan's own height, stood also between the divans, the candles in each, as thick as her forearm, alight to give forth not only radiance but a sweet odor as they burned. Midpoint in the divan circle was a tall-backed chair over which arched a canopy. And in that sat a woman, a goblet in her hand. She had a fur cloak pulled about her shoulders hiding almost all of her robe, save that here and there a shimmer of gold caught fire from the candlelight. Only her face was visible in a hood of the same metallic-seeming fabric, and it was that of the very old, seamed with deep wrinkles, sunken of eye. The divans, Tamisan marked, were occupied by both men and women, the women flanking the chair, the men fartherest away from the ancient noblewoman. And directly facing her was a second impressive chair, lacking only the canopy; before it was a table on which stood, at each of its four corners, four small basins, one cream, one pale rose, one faintly blue, and the fourth sea-foam green. Tamisan's store of knowledge gave her some preparation. This was the setting for the magic of a Mouth, and it was apparent that her service as a foreseer was aliout to be demanded. What had she done in allowing herself to be drawn here? Could she make pretense her servant well enough to deceive this company? hunger. Mouth of Olava, I hunger -- not for that which will feed the body, but for that which satisfies the mind." The old woman leaned forward a little. Her voice might be the thin one of age, but it carried with it the force of authority, of one who has not had her word or desire questioned for a long time. Qhe must improvise, Tamisan  knew. She was a dreamer and she had wrought in dreams many strange things. Let her but remember that now. Her damp skirts clung clammily to her legs and Jhighs as she came forward, saying nothing to the woman in return, but seating herself in the chair facing her client. She was drawing on faint stirrings of a memory which seemed not truly her own for guidance, though she had not yet realized that fully. "What would you know. First Standing?" She raised her hands to her forehead in an instinctive gesture, touching forefingers to her temples, right and left. "What comes to me -- and mine." The last two words had come almost as an afterthought. Tamisan's hands went out without her conscious ordering. She stiffled her amazement -- this was as if she were repeating an act as well learned as her dreamer's technique had been. With her left hand she gathered up a palm full of the sand from the cream bowl. It was a shade or two darker than the container. She tossed this with a sharp movement of her wrist, and it settled smoothly as a film on the tabletop. What she was doing was not of her conscious mind, as if another had taken charge of her actions. And judging by the way the woman in the chair leaned forward, the hush that had fallen on her companions, this was right and proper. Without any order from her mind, Tamisan's rit hand went now to the blue bowl with its dark blue sand. But this was not tossed. Instead, she held the fine grains in her t and that upright, passing it slowly over the table top so that a very tiny trickle of grit fed down to me a pattern on the first film. And it was a pattern, not a random scattering. What she had so drawn was a recognizable sword with a basket-shaped hilt and a slightly curved blade tapering to a narrow point. Now her hand moved to the pink bowl. The sand she gathered up there was a dark red, more vivid than the other colors, as if she dealt now with flecks of newly shed blood. Once more she used her upheld fist, and the shifting stream, fed from her palm, became a space ship I It was idightly different in outline from those she had seen all her life, but it was unmistakably a ship. And it was drawn on the table top as if it threatened to descend upon the pointed sword. Or was it that the sword threatened it? She heard a gasp of surprise -- or was it fear? But that sound had not come from the woman who had bade her foretell. It must have broken from some other member of the company intent upon Tamisan's painting with the flowing sand Tt was to the fourth bowl now that her right hand moved. But she did not take up a full fistful, rather a generous pinch between thumb and forefinger. She held the sand high above the picture and released it. The green specks floated down -- to gather in a sign like a circle with one portion missing. She stared at that, and it seemed to alter a little under the intentness of her watching. What it had changed to was a symbol she knew well, one which brought a small gasp from her. It was the seal, simplified it was true, but still readable, of the House of Starrex, and it overlaid both the edge of the ship and the tip of the sword. "Read you this! " The noblewoman demanded sharply. IF And from somewhere the words came readily to Tamisan. 'The sword is the sword of Ty-Kry raised in defense." "Assured, assured." The murmur ran along the divans. "Tlie ship comes as a danger -- " "That thing -- a ship? But it is no ship -- " "It is a ship from the stars." "A woe -- woe and woe -- " That was no murmur now but a full throated cry of fright. "As in the days of our fathers when we had to deal with the false ones. Ahtap -- let the spirit of Ahta be shield to our arms, a sword in our hands!" The noblewoman made a silencing gesture with one hand. "Enough! Crying to the reverend spirits may bring comfort, but they are not noted for helping those not standing to arms on their own behalf. There have been other sky ships since Ahta's days, and with them we have dealt -- to our purpose. If another comes, we are forewarned, which is also forearmed. But what lies there in green, # Mouth of Olava, which surprised even you?" Tamisan had had precious moments in which to think. If it were true as she had deduced, that she was tied to this world by those she had brought with her, then she must find them. And it was clear that they were not of this company. Therefore this last must be made to work for her. "The green sign is that of a champion, one meant to be mighty in the coming battle. But he shall not be known save when the sign points to him, and it may be that this can only be seen by one with the Eyes." Ohe looked to the noblewoman, and,meeting those old eyes, Tamisan felt a small chill rise in her, one which had not been bom from the still damp clothing she wore. For there was that in those two shadowed eyes which questioned coldly and did not accept without proof. "So should the one with the Eye you speak of go sniffing all through Ty-Kry and the land beyond the city, even to the boundaries of the world?" "If need be," Tamisan stood firm. "A long journey, mayhap, and many step-strides into danger. And if the ship comes before this champion is found? A thin cord I think, # Mouth, on which to hang the future of a city, a kingdom or a people. Look if you will, but I say we have more tested ways of dealing with these interlopers from the skies. But, Mouth, since you have given warning, let it so be remembered." She put her hands on the arms of her chair and arose, using them to lever her. And so all her company came to their feet, two of the women hurrying to her so that she could lay her hands upon their shoulders to support her out. Without another glance at Tamisan she went, nor did the dreamer rise to see her go. For suddenly she was spent, tired as she had been in the past when a dream broke and left her supine and drained. Only this dream did not break, but kept her sitting before the table and its sand pictxures, looking at that green symbol, still caught fast in the web of another world. The woman in green returned, bearing a goblet in her two hands, offering it to Tamisan. "The First Standing will go to the High Castle and the OverQueen. She turned into that road. Drink, Tamisan, and mayhap the Over-Queen herself will ask you for a seeing." Tamisan? That was her true name. Twice this woman had called her by it. How was it known in a dream? Yet she dared not ask that question or any of the others she needed answers for. Instead she drank from the goblet, finding the liquid hot and spicy, driving the chill from her body. There was so much she must learn, must know, and she could not discover it save indirectly, lest she reveal what she was and was not. "I am tired." "There is a resting place prepared," the woman said. '"You have only to come -- " Tamisan had almost to lever herself up as the noblewoman had done. She was giddy, had to catch at the back of the chair. Then she moved after her hostess, hoping desperately to know... V D id one sleep in a dream, dream upon dream, perhaps? Tamisan wondered about that as she stretched out upon the couch her hostess showed her. Yet when she set aside her crown and laid her head upon the roll which served as a pillow, she was once more alert, her thoughts racing or entangled in such wild confusion that she felt as giddy as she had upon rising from her seers chair. The Starrex symbol overl#ung both that of the sword and the space ship in the sand picture -- could it mean that she would only find what she sought when the might of this world met that of the starmen? And had she indeed in some manner fallen into the past where she would relive the first coming of the space voyagers to Ty-Kry? But no, the noblewoman had mentioned past encounters with them which had ended in favor of Ty-Kry. Tamisan tried to envision a world of her own time, but one in which history had taken a different road. Yet much of that around her was of the past. Did that mean that. IF without the decisions of her own time, the world of Ty-Kry remained largely unchanged from century to century? Real, unreal, old, now -- she had lost all a dreamer's command of action. Tamisan did not play now with toys which she codd move about at will, but rather was caught up in a series of events she could not foresee and over which she had no control. Yet twice the woman had called her by her rightful name used the devices of a Mouth of Olava to foretell, as if she had done so many times before. Could it be? Tamisan closed her teeth upon her lower lip and felt the pain of that, just as she felt the pain of the bruises left by her abrupt entrance into the mysterious here. Could it be that some dreams were so deep, so well woven that they were to the dreamer real? Was this indeed the fate of those "closed" dreamers who were worthless for the Hive? Did they in their trances live a countless number of lives? But she was not a closed dreamer -- Awake! Once more, stretched as she was upon the couch, she used the proper technique to throw herself out of a dream. And once more she experienced that weird nothingness in which she spun sickeningly, as if held helplessly in some void, tied to an anchor which kept her back from the full leap to sane safety. There was only one eIanation -- that somewhere in this strange Ty-Kry one or both of those who had prared to share her dream was now to be foimd and must be sought out before she could return. So -- the sooner that she accomplished, the better! But w'here should she start seeking? Though a feeling of weakness climg to her limbs, making her move slowly as if she strove to walk against the pull of a strong current, Tamisan arose from the couch. She turned to pick up her Mouth's crown and so looked into the oval of a mirror, startled thus into immobility. For the figure she looked upon as her own reflection was not that she had seen before. Tt was not the robe or the crown which had changed her; she was not the same person. For a long time, ever since she could remember, she had had the pallid skin and the close cropped hair of a dreamer very seldom in the sunlight. But the face of the woman in the mirror was a soft, even brown. The cheekbones were wide, the eyes large, the lips very red. Her brows -- she leaned closer to the mirror to see what gave them that odd upward slant and decided that they had been plucked or shaven to produce the effect. Her hair was perhaps three fingers long and not her very fair coloring, but dark and curling. She was not the Tamisan she knew, nor was this stranger the product of her own will. And it must follow logically that if she did not look like her normal self -- then perhaps the two she sought were no longer as she remembered either. Thus her search would be twice the more difficult. Could she ever recognize them? Fritened now, she sat down on the couch, facing the mirror. No, she dared not even give way to fear. For if she once let it break her control she might be utterly lost. Logic, even in such a world of unlogic, must make her think lucidly. Just how true was her soothsaying? At least she had not influenced that fall of the sand. Therefore -- perhaps the Mouth of Olava did have supernatural powers. She had fdayed with the idea of magic in the past to embroider dreams, but that had been her own creation. Could she use it by will now -- since it would seem this unknown self of hers did manage to draw upon some unknown source of power? Fasten her thoughts upon one of the men, hold him in her mind- -- could the dream tie pull her to him? Kas or Starrex? All she knew of her master she had learned from tapes, and tapes gave one only superficial knowledge, as if one could study a person going through only half-understood actions behind a veil which concealed more than it displayed. Kas had spoken directly to her, his flesh had touched hers. If she must choose one to draw her, then it had better be Kas. Kas -- in her mind Tamisan built a memory sketch of him as she would build a preliminary picture for a dream. Then suddenly the Kas in her mind flickered and changed. She saw another man. He was taller than the Kas die knew, and he wore a imiform tunic and space boots -- his features were hard to distinguish -- and that vision lasted only a fraction of time. The Shipl That symbol had lain touching both ship and sword in the sand seeing. And it would be easier to seek a man on the ship than wandering through the streets of a strange city with no better clue than that Starrex -- :this world's counterpart -- might just be here. So little on which to pin a quest! A ship which might or might not be now approaching Ty-Kry -- and which would meet a drastic reception when it landed. Suppose Kas -- or his this-world's double -- were killed? Would that anchor her here for all time? Resolutely Tamisan pushed such negative speculation to the back of her mind. First things first; the ship had not yet planeted. But when it came she must make sure that she was among those who were preparing for its welcome. IF Tt seemed that having made that decision she was at last able to sleep, for the fatigue which had struck at her in the hall returned a hundred-fold, and she fell, back on the couch as one drugged, remembering nothing more until she awakened to find the woman in green standing above her, one hand on her shoulder shaking her gently back to awareness, "Awake -- there is a summons." A summons to dream, Tamisan thought dazedly, and then the unfamiliar room, the immediate past came completely back to her. "The First Standing Jassa has summoned." The woman sounded excited. "It is said by her messenger, and he has brought a chair cart for you, that you are to go to the High Castle I Perhaps you will see for the Over-Queen herself I But there is time -- I have won it for you -- to bathe, to eat, to change ybur robe. See -- I have plundered my own bride chest -- "She pointed to a chair over which was spread a robe, not of the deep violet Tamisan now wore, but of a purple-wine. "It is the only one of the proper color -- or near it." She ran her hand lovingly over the rich folds. "But haste!" she added briskly. "As a Mouth you can claim the need for making ready to appear before high company, hut to linger too long will raise the anger of the First Standing." There was a basin large enough to serve as a bath in the room beyond. And, as well as the robe, the woman brought fresh body linen. So that when Tamisan stood once more before the mirror to clasp her silver belt and assume the Mouth crown, she felt renewed and refreshed and her thanks were warm. But the woman made a gesture of brushing them aside. "Are we not of the same clan, cousin-kin? Shall one say that Nahra is not open-handed with her own? That you are a Mouth is our clan pride, let us enjoy it through you!" She brought a covered bowl and a goblet and Tamisan ate a dish of mush-meal into which had been baked dried fruit and bits of what she thought well-chopped meat. It was tasty, and she finished it to the last crumb, just as she emptied the cup of a tart-sweet drink. "Well away, Tamisan, this is a great day for the clan of Fremont when you go to the High Castle and perhaps stand before the OverQueen. May it be that the Seeing is not for ill, but for good. Though you are but the Mouth of Olava and not the One dealing fortune to us who live and die." "For your aid and your good wishing, receive my thanks," Tamisan said. "I, too, hope that fortune comes from misfortune on this day." And that is stark truth, she thought, for I must gather fortune to me with both hands and hold it IF tight, lest the chancy game I play be lost. F irst Standing Jassa's messenger was an officer, his hair clubbed up under a ridged helm to give additional protection to his head in battle, his breastplate enameled blue with the double crown of the Over-Queen, and his sword very much to the fore -- as if he already strode the street of a city at war. There was a small grypon between the shafts of the chair cart and two men-at-arms ready, one at the grypon's head, the other holding aside the curtains as their officer handed Tamisan into the chair. He brusk ly jerked the curtains shut without asking her pleasure, and she decided that perhaps her visit to the High Castle was to be a secret matter. But between the curtain edges she caught sight of this Ty-Kry. And, though in parts it was very strange to her, there were enough similarities to provide her with an anchor to the real. The sky towers and other off-world forms of architectures which had been introduced by space travelers were missing. But the streets themselves, the many beds of foliage and flowers, were those she had known all her life. And the High Castle -- she drew a deep breath as they wound out of town and along the river -- this -- this had been part of her world. too, though then as a ruined and very ancient landmark. Part of it had been slagged in the war ef SylVs rebellion. And it had been considered a place of misfortune, largely shunn, save for off-warld tourists seeking the unusual. But here it was in its pride, larger, more widely spread than in her Ty-Kry, as if the generations who had deserted it in her world had clung to it here, adding ever to its bulk. For it was not a single structure but a city in itself, though it had no merchants nor public buildings , but rather provided homes to shelter the nobles, who must spend part of the year at court, and all their , servants, and the many officials of the kingdom. In its heart was the building which gave it its name, a collection of towers, rising far above the lesser structures at the foot. These were of a gray at their bases which changed subtly as they arose until their tops were a deep, rich blue, while the other buildings in the great pile were wholly gray as to wall, a darker blue as to roof. The chair creaked forward on its two wheels, the grypon being kept to a steady pace by the man at its head, and passed under the thick arch in the outer wall, then up a street between buildings which, though dwarfed by the towers, were in turn dwarfing to those who walked or rode by them. There was a second gate, more buildings, a third, and then the open space about the central towers. They had passed people in plenty since entering the first gate. Many were soldiers of the guard, but some of the armed men had worn other colors and insignia, being, Tamisan guessed, the retainers of court lords. And now and then some Lord came proudly, his retinue strung along behind him by threes to make a show which amused Tamisan, as if the number of followers to tread on one's heels enhanced one's importance in the world. She was handed down with a little more ceremony than she had' been ushered into the chair. And the officer offered her his wrist, his men falling in behind as a groom hurried forward to lead off the equipage, thus affording her a tailof-honor too. But the towers of the High Castle were so awe inspiring, so huge a pile, she was glad she had an escort into their heart. The farther they went through halls -- so high that it was hard to see their dusky roofs, ill lit by only the big candles in their man-tall holders -- the more uneasy she became. As if once within his maze there might be no retreat and she woiild be lost forever. VI T wice they climbed staircases until her legs ached with the effort and the stairs took on the aspect of mountains. Then her party passed into a long hall which was lighted not only by the candle-trees but some tMn rays filtering through windows placed so high above their heads that nothing could be seen through them. And Tamisan, in that part of her which seemed familiar with this world, knew this to be the Walk of the Nobles, and the company now gathered here were, nearest, the Third Standing, then the Second and, at the far end of that road of blue carpet onto which her guide led her. First Standing -- or rather sitting, there being two arcs of hooded and canopied chairs, with a throne above them on a three-step dias. And the hood over that was upheld by a double crown which glittered with gems, while on the steps were grouped men in the armor of the guard and others wearing bright tunics, their hair loose upon their shoulders. It was toward that throne that the officer led her and they passed through the ranks of the Third Standing, hearing a low murmur of voices. Tamisan looked neither to right or left. She wished to see the Over-Queen, for it was plain she was being granted full audience. And then -- something stirred deep within her as if a small pin pricked. The reason for this she did not know, save that ahead was something of vast importance to her. Now they were equal with the IF first of the chairs and she saw that the greater number of those who so sat were women, but not all. And mainly they were of an age to be at least in middle life. So Tamisan came to the foot of the dais, and in that moment she did not go to one knee as did the officer, but rather raised her finger tips to touch the rim of the crown on her head. For with another of those flashes of half recognition, she knew that in this place that which she represented did not bow as did others, but acknowledged only that the Queen was one to whom human allegiance was granted after another and greater loyalty was paid elsewhere. 'he Over-Queen looked down with as deeply searching a stare as Tamisan looked up. And what Tamisan saw was a woman to whom she could not set an age; rather she might be either old or young, for the years had not seemed to mark her. The robe on her full figure was not ornate, but a soft pearl color without ornamentation, save that she wore a girdle of silvery chains braided and woven together, and a collar-like necklace of the same metal from which fringed milky gems cut into drops. Her hair was a flame of brightly glowing red in which a diadem of the same creamy stones was almost hidden. As for her face -- was she beautiful? Tamisan could not have said. But that she was vitally alive there was no doubt Even though she sat so quietly bow, there was an aura of energy about her suggesting that this was only a pause between the doing of great and necessary deeds. To Taaiisan she was the most assertive personality she had ever seen and instantly the guards of a dreams went into action. To serve such a mistress, Tamisan thought, would sap all the personality from one, so that the servant would become but a mirror to reflect from that surrender onward. "Welcome, Mouth of Olava who has been uttering strange things." The Over-Queen's voice was mocking, challenging. "A Mouth says naught. Great One, save what is given it to speak." Tamisan found her answer ready, though she had not consciously formed it in her mind. "So we are told. Though Gods may grow Id and tired. Or is that only the fate of men? But now it is our will that Olava speak again -- if that is fortune for this hour. So be it!" As if that last phrase was an order there was a stir among those standing on the steps of the throne. Two of the guardsmen brought out a table, a third a stool, the fourth a tray on which rested four bowls of sand. These they set up before the throne. Tamisan took her place on the stool, again put her fingers to her tenles. Would this work once more? Or must she try to force a picture in the sand? She felt a small shiver of nerves she fought to control. "What desires the Great One?" She was glad to hear her voice steady, no hint of her uneasiness in it. "What chances in -- say four passages of the sun?" Tamisan waited. Would that other personality or power, or whatever it might be, take over? But her hand did not move. Instead that odd, disturbing prick grew the stronger; she was drawn, even as a noose might be laid about her forehead to puU her head around. So she turned to follow the dictates of that pull, to look where something willed her eyes to look. But all she saw was the line of officers on the steps of the throne, and they stared at and through her, none with any sign of recognition StarrexI She grasped at that hope; but none of them resembled the man she sought. Olava sleep? Or has His Mouth been forgotten for a space?" The Over-Queen's voice was sharper, and Tamisan broke that hold on her attention looked back to the throne and the woman on it. "It is not meet for the Mouth to speak unless Olava wishes -- " Tamisan began, with increasing nervousness until siie felt that sensation in her left hand, as if it were not under her control but possessed by another will. She fell silent as it gathered up the brownish sand and tossed it to form a picture's background. But this time she did not seek next the blue grains; rather her fist dug into the red and moved to paint in the outline of the space ship, above it a single red circle. Then there was a moment of hesitation, before her fingers strayed to the green, took up a generous pinch and again made Starrex's S#mibol below the ship. "A single sun," the Over-Queen read out. "One day until the enemy comes. But what is the remaining word of Olava, Mouth?" "That there be one among you who is a key to victory. He shall stand against the enemy and under him fortune comes." "So? And who is this hero?" Tamisan looked again to the line of officers. Dared she trust to instinct? Something within her urged her on. "Let each of these protectors of Ty-Kry -- " She raised a finger to indicate the officers. "Let each come forward and take up the sand of seeing. Let the Mouth touch that hand and may it then strew the answer -- perhaps Olava will so make it clear." To Tamisan's surprise, the OverIF Queen laughed. good a way as any perhaps for picking a champion. Though to abide by Olava's choice -- that is another matter." And her smile faded as she glanced at the men, as if there was a thought in her mind which disturbed her. At her nod, they came one by one. Under the shadows of their helmets their faces, being of one race, were very similiar; and Tamisan, studying each, could see no chance of telling which Starrex might be. Each took up a pinch of green sand, held out his hand palm down and let the grains fall while she set finger tip to the back of that hand. The sand drifted, but in no shape and to no purpose. Tt was not imtil the last man came that there was a difference, for then the sand did not drift, but fell to form again the symbol which was twin to the one already on the table. Tamisan looked up. The officer was staring at the sand rather then meeting her eyes, and there was a line of strain about his mouth, a look about him such as might shadow the face of a man who stood with his back to a wall and a ring of sword points at his throat. 'This is your man," Tamisan said. Starrex? She must be sure -- if she could only demand the truth in this instant! But her preoccupation was swept aside. "Olava deals falsely!" That ry came from the officer behind her, the one who had brought her here. "Perhaps we must not think ill of Olava's advice." The OverQueen's voice had a guttural, feline purr. 'Tt may be his Mouth is not wholly weed to his service, but speaks for others than Olava at times. Hawarel -- so you are to be om champion -- The officer went to one knee, his hands clasped loosely before him as if he ved all to see he did not reach for any weapon. "I am no choice, save the Great One's." In spite of the strain visible in his tense body he spoke levelly and without a tremor. "Great One, this traitor -- " Two of the officers moved as if to lay hands upon him and drag him away. "No. Has not QIava spoken?" The mockery was very plain in the Over-Queen's tone now. "But to make sure that Olava's will be carried out, take good care of our champion to be. Since Hawarel is to fight our battle with the cursed starmen, he must be saved to do it." Now she looked to Tamisan, who was still startled by Ibe quick turn of events and their hostility to Olava's choice. "Let the Mouth of Olava diare with Hawarel this waiting that she may, perhaps instill in Olava's choice the vigor and strength such a battle will demand of our chosen championV Each time the Over-Queen spoke the last word she made of it a thing of derision and subtle menace. "The audience is finished." The Over-Queen arose, stepped behind the throne as those about Tamisan fell to their knees; and then she was gone. But the officer who had guided Tamisan was by her side. And Hawarel, once more on his feet, was closely flanked by two of the other guards, one of whom pulled their prisoner's sword from his sheath before he could move. With Hawarel before her, Tamisan was urged from the hall. At the moment she was pleased enough to go, hoping for a chance to prove the rightness of her guess, that Hawarel and Starrex were the same and she had found the first of her fellow dreamers -- was this far onward toward their release. They traversed more halls until they came to a door which one of HawarePs guards opened. The prisoner walked through and Tamisan's escort waved her after him. Then the door slammed shut and at that sound Hawarel whirled around. Under the beaking fore plate of his helmet his eyes were cold fire and he seemed a man about to leap for his enemy's throat. "Who -- " His voice was only a harsh whisper. "Who set you to my death wishing, witch?" TTis clawed hands were reaching for her throat. Tamisan flung up her arm in an attempt to guard, stumbled back. "Lord Starrex I" If she had been wrong -- if -- ! Though his finger tips brushed her shoulders, he did not grasp her. Instead it was his turn to retreat a step or two, his mouth half open in a gasp. "Witch -- witch!" The very force of the words he hurled at her made them like darts dispatched from one of the archaic crossbows of the history tapes. "Lord Starrex," Tamisan repeated, feeling on more secure ground at seeing his stricken amazement, no longerfearing he would attack her out of hand. His reaction to that name was enough to assure her she was right, though he did not seem prepared to acknowledge it. "I am Hawarel of the Vanora," he brought out those words as harsh croaking. Tamisan glanced around. This was a bare-walled room, with no hiding place for a listener. In her own time and place she could have feared many scanning devices. But she thought those unknown to this Ty-Kry. And to win Hawarel-Starrex into cooperation was very necessary. "You are Lord Starrex," she reIF furned with bold confidence or at least what she hoped was .a convincing show of such. "Just as I am Tamisan, the dreamer. And this, wherein we are caught, is the dream you ordered of me." He raised his hand to his forehead, his fingers encountered his helmet, and he swept it off unheedingly, so that it clanked and skidded across the polished floor. His hair, netted into a kind of protecting cushion, was piled about his head, giving him an odd appearance to Tamisan. It was black and thick, just as his skin was as brown-hued as that of her new body. And without the shadow of the helm she could see his face more clearly, finding in it no resemblance to the aloof master of the sky towers. In a way, it was that of a younger man, one less certain of himself. "I am Hawarel," he repeated doggedly. "You try to trap me, or perhaps the trap has already closed and you seek now to make me condemn myself with my own mouth. I tell you, I am no traitor -- I am Hawarel and my blood oath to the Great One h been faithfully kept." amisan experienced a rise of  impatience. She had not thought Lord Starre:: to be a stupid man. But it would seem his counterpart here lacked more than just the face of his other self. "You are Starrex, and this is # dream." If it was not, she did noI care to raise that issue now. "Re member the sky tower? You boughi me from Jabis for dreaming. Ther you summoned me -- and Lore Kas -- and ordered me to prove my worth." His brows drew together in z black frown as he stared at her. "What have they given you oi promised, that you do to me?' came his counter-demand. "I an: no sworn enemy to you or yours -- not that I know." Tamisan sighed. "Do you deny you know the name Starrex?" she asked. For a long moment he was silent. Then he turned from her. took a stride or two, his toe thumping against his helmet, sending it rolling ahead of him. She waited He rounded again to face her. "You are a Mouth of Olava -- ' She shook her head, interrupting him. "We have little time for such fencing. Lord Starrex. You do know that name, and it is in my mind that you also remember the rest, at least in some measure. I am Tamisan the dreamer." It was his turn to sigh. "So you say." "So I shall continue to say. And, mayhap as I do, others than you will listen." "As I thought!" he flashed. "You would have me betray myself." "If you are truly Hawarel as you state, then what have you to betray?" "Very well. I am -- am two! I am Hawarel and I am someone else who has queer memories and who may well be a night demon come to dispute ownership of this body. There -- you have it! Go and tell those who sent you and have me out to the arrow range for a quick ending there. Perhaps that will be better than to continue as a battle field between two different selves." Perhaps he was not just being obstinate, Tamisan thought It might be that the dream had a greater hold on him than it did on her. After all she was a trained dreamer, one used to venturing into illusions wrought from imagination. "If you can remember a little -- then listen!" She drew closer to him and began to speak in a lower voice -- not that she believed they could be overheard, but it was well to take no chances. Swiftly she gave her account of this whole mad tangle, or what had been her part in it. TThen she was done she was surprised to see that a certain hardening had overtaktti his features, so that now he looked more resolute, less like one trapped in a maze which had no guide. "And this is the truth?" "By what god or power do you wish me to swear to it?" She was exasperated now, frustrated by his lingering doubts. "None, because it explains what was heretofore imexplainable -- what has made my life a hell of doubt these past hours and brought more suspicion upon me, I have been two persons. But if this is all a dream -- why is that so?" "I do not knbw." Tamisan chose frankness as best befitting her needs now. "This is unlike any dream I have created before." "In what manner?" be asked crisply. "It is part of a dreamer's duty to study her master's personality, to suit his desires, even if tlMse be unexpressed and hidden. From what I had learned of you -- of Lord Starrex -- I thought that to# much had been already seen, experienced, known to you. That it must be a new approach I tried, or else you would find that dreaming held no profit. "Therefore it came to me suddenly that I would not dream of the past, nor of the future, which are the common approaches for an action dreamer, but refine upon the subject. In the past there were times in history when the future rested upon a single decision. And it was in my mind to select certain of these decisions and then envision a world, co-existent with our own, in which those decisions had IF golie in the opposite direction -- trjing to see what would be the present-day result of actions in the past." "And so this is what you tried? And what decisions did you select for your experiment at the rewritting of history?" He was giving her his full attention now. "I took three. First, the Welcome of the Over-Queen Ahta; second the drift of the Colony ship Wanderer; third, the rebellion of Sylt. Should the Welcome have been a rejection, should the colony ship never reached here, should Sylt have failed -- these would produce a world I thought might be interesting to visit -- in a dream. So I read what history tapes I could call upon. Thus, when you summoned me to dream I had my ideas ready. But -- it did not work as it should have. Instead of spinning the proper dream, creating incidents in good order, I found myself fast caught in a world I did not know, nor build." As she spoke she watched the change in him. He had lost all the fervent antagonism of his first attack on her. More and more, she could see what she had associated with the personality of Lord Starrex coming through the unfamiliar envelope of the guardsman's body. "So it did not work properly -- "No, as I have said, I found myself in the dream, with no control of action, no recognizable creation factors. I do not understand -- " "No? There could be on explanation." The frown line was back between his brows but it was not a scowl aimed at her; rather it was as if he were trying hard to remember something of importance which eluded his efforts. "There is a theory, a very old one -- Yes I That of Parallel worlds!" T n her wide use of the tapes je had not come across that and now she demanded the knowledge of him almost fiercely. "What are those?" "You are not the first -- how could you be -- to be struck by the notion that sometimes history and the future hang upon a very thin cord which can be twisted this way and that by small chance. There was a theory once advanced that when that chanced it created a second world, one in which the decision was made to the right, when that of the world we know went to the left." "But -- alternated worlds -- where -- how did they exist?" "Thus, perhaps." He held out his two hands horizontally one above the other. "In layers. There were even old tales, created for amusement, of men traveling, not back in time, nor forward, but across it from one such world to another." "But -- here we are. I am a Mouth of Olava, nor do I look like myself. Just as to the eye you are not Lord Starrex -- " "Perhaps we are the people we would be if our world had taken the other side of your three decisions It is a clever device for a dreamer to create, Tamisan." "Only,' she told him now the last truth, "I do not think I have created it. Certainly I can not control it -- " "You have tried to break this dream?" "Of course I But I am tied here. I think by you and the Lord Kas. Until we three try together, perhaps we can not any of us return." "And Kas -- now you must go searching for him?" She shook her head. "Kas, I think, is one of the crew on this spacer about to set down. I believe I saw him -- though not his face." Now she smiled a little shakily. "It seems that though I am mainly the Tamisan I have always been, yet also do I have some of the powers of a Mouth. Just as you are Hawarel as well as Starrex." "The longer I listen to you," he announced, "the more I become Starrex. So we must find Kas on the spacer before we wrangle free from this tangle? But that is going to be rather a problem. I am enou of Hawarel to know that the spacer is going to receive the usual welcome dealt off-world ships here -- trickery and extinction. Your three points have been as you envisioned them. There was no Welcome, but rather a massacre, no colony ship ever reached here, and Sylt was speared by a contemptuous man-at-arms the first time he lifted his voice to draw a crowd. Hawarel knows this as the truth; as Starrex I am aware there is another truth which did radically change life on this planet. Now, did you seek me out on purpose, your champion tale intended to be our bridge to Kas?" "No, at least I did not consciously arrange it so. I tell you, I have some of the powers of a Mouth -- they take over." He gave a sharp bark of sound which was not laughter but somewhat akin to it. "By the Fist of Jimsam Taragon, we have it "complicated by magic, tool And I suppose you can not tell me just how much a Mouth can do in the way of foreseeing or forearming or freeing us from this trap?" Tamisan shook her head. "The Mouths were mentioned in the history tapes; they were very important once. But after Sylt's rebellion they were either killed or disappeared. They were hunted by both sides and most of what we know about them is only legend. I can not tell you what I can do. Sometimes something -- perhaps it is the memory and knowledge of this body -- takes over and then I do strange things. I neither will nor understand them." IF TTe crossed the room and pulled two stools from a far corner. 'We might as well sit at ease and explore what we can of this world memories. It just might be that united we can learn more than when trying singly. The trouble is -- " He reached out a hand and mechanically she touched finger tips to the back of it in a oddly formal ceremony which was not part of her own knowledge. So he guided her to one of the stools and she was glad to sit down. "The trouble is," he repeated as he dropped on the other stool, stretching cfut his long legs and tugging at his sword belt with that dangerously empty sheath, "that I was more than a little mixed up when I awoke, if you might call it that -- in this body. So that my first reactions must have suggested mental imbalance to those I encoimtered. Luckily the Hawarel part was in control soon enough to save me. But there is a second drawback to this identity -- I am suspect as coming from a province where there has been a rebellion. In fact I am here in Ty-Kry as a distrusted hostage, rather than a member in good standing of the guard. I have not been able to ask questions, and all I have learned is in bits and pieces. The real Hawarel is a quite uncomplicated and simple soldier who is hurt by the suspicion against him and quite fervently loyal to the crown. I wonder how Kas took his awakening. If he preserves any remnant of his real self, he ought to be well established by now." Tamisan, surprised, asked a question to which she hoped he would give a true and open answer: "You do not like -- you have reason to fear Lord Kas?" "Like? Fear?" She could see that thin shadow of Starrex overlaying Hawarel become more distinct. "Those are emotions. I have had little to do with emotions for some time." "But you wanted him to share the dream," she persisted. "True. I may not be emotional about my esteemed cousin, but I am a prudent man. Since it was by his urging, in fact his arrangement, that you were added to my household, I thought it only fair he share in his plan for my entertainment. I know that Kas is very solicitous of his crippled cousin, ready-handed to serve in any way -- so generous of time, energy -- " "You suspect him of something?" She thought she had sensed what lay behind his words. "Suspect? Of what? He has been, as all would assure you freely, and as far as I would allow, my good friend." But there was a closed look about him, warning her off from any further exploration of that IF crippled cousin." This time Hawarel repeated those words as if he spoke to himself and not to her. "At least you have done me a small service on the credit side of the scale." Now he did look to Tamisan as he thumped his right leg with a satisfaction which was not of the Starrex she knew. "You have provided me with a body in good working order. Which I may well need, since so far bad has outweighed the good in this world." # C T T awarel -- Lord Starrex -- "  she was beginning when he interrupted her. "Give me always Hawarel. Remember! There is no need to add to the already heavy load of suspicion surrounding me in these halls." "Hawarel, then. I did not choose you for the champion; that was done by that power I do not understand, working through me. If they agree -- then you have a good chance to find Kas. You may even demand that he be the one you battle." "Find him how?" "They may allow me to select the proper one from the off-world force," she suggested. A very thin thread on which to hang any plan of escape, but she could not see a better one. "And you think that this sand painting will pick him out -- as it did me?" "But it did you, did it not?" "That I can not deny." "And the first time I foresaw -- for one of the First Standing -- it made such an impression on her that she had me summoned here to foresee for the Over-Queen." "Magic!" Again he uttered that half laugh. "To another worlder, much that the space travelers can do might be termed magic." "Well enough. I have seen things -- yes, I have seen things myself, and not while dreaming either. Very well, I am to volunteer to meet an enemy champion from the ship and then you sand paint out the proper one. If you are successful and do find Kas -- then what?" "It is simple -- we wake." "You take us with you, of course?" "If we are so linked that we can not leave here without one another -- then a single waking will take us all." "Are you sure you need Kas? After all, I was the one you were planning this dream for." "We go, leave the Lord Kas here?" "A cowardly withdrawal you think, my dreamer. But one, I assure you which would solve many things. However -- can you send me through, return for Kas? It is in my mind I would like to know what is happening now for myself -- in our own world. Is it not by the dreamer's oath that he forwhom the dream is wrought has first call upon the dreamer?" So he did have some lurking imeasiness tied to KasI But in a manner he was right. She reached out before he was aware of what she would do and seized his hand, at the same time using the formula for waking. Once more that mist which was nowhere enveloped her. But it was no use; her first guess had been right -- they were still tied. And she blinked her eyes open upon the same room. Hawarel had slumped, was falling from his stool so that she had to go to one knee to support his body with her shoulder or he would have slid full length to the floor. Then his muscles tightened and he jerked erect, his eyes open and blazing into hers with the same cold anger with which he had first greeted her upon entering this room. "Why -- ?" "You asked," she countered. T Tis lids drooped so she could no   longer see that icy anger. "So I did. But I did not quite expect to be so quickly served. Now, you have effectively proven your point -- three go or none. And it remains to be seen how soon we can find our missing third." He asked her no more questions and she was glad, since that whirl into nowhere in the abortive attempt at waking had tired her greatly. She moved the stool a little so her back could rest against the wall and she was farther from him. But in a little while he got to his feet and paced back and forth as if some driving desire for wider action worked in him, to the point where he cold not sit still. Once the door opened, but they were not summoned forth. Instead food and drink were brout to them by one of the guards, the other standing ready with a crossr bow at thigh, his eyes ever upon them. "We are well served. Hawarel opened the lids of bowls and inspected their contents. "It would seem we are of importance. Hail, Rugaard, when do we go forth from this room, of which I am growing very tired?" "Be at peace, you shall have action enough when the Great One desires it," the officers by the crossbowman answered. "The ship from the stars has been sighted, the moimtain beacons have blazed twice. They seem to be aiming for the plain beyond Ty-Kry. It is odd that they are so single-minded and come to the same pen to be taken each time. Perhaps Dalskol was rit when he said that they do not think for themselves at all, but carry out the orders of an off-world power which does not allow them independent judgment. Your service time will come. And, Mouth IF of Olava -- " He took a step forward to see Tamisan the better. "The Great One says that it might be well to read the sand on your own behalf. For false seers are given to those they have belittled in such seeing, to be done with as those they have so shamed may decide." "As is well known," she answered him. "I have not dealt falsely, as shall be seen at the proper time and in the proper place." When they were gone she was hungry, and so it seemed was Hawarel, for they divided fairly and left nothing in the bowls. When they were done he said, "Since you are a reader of history and know old customs, perhaps you remember one which it is not too pleasant to recall now -- that among some races it was the proper thing to dine well a prisoner about to die." "You choose a heartening thing to think onl" "No, you choose it, for this is your world, remember that, my dreamer." 'amisan closed her eyes and ' leaned her head and shoulders back against the wall. Perhaps she even slept a little, for there was the clang of sudden noise and she gasped out of a doze. The room had grown dark, but at the door was a blaze of light and in that stood the officer, behind a guard of spearmen. "The time has come," he smd. "The wait has been long." Hawarel stood up, stretching wide his arms as one who has been ready for too long. Then he turned to her and once more offered his wrist. She would have liked to have done without his aid, but she found herself stiff and cramped enough to be ad of it. They went on a complicated way through halls, down stairs until at last they issued out into the night. And awaiting them was a covered cart much larger than the chair on wheels which had brought her. to the castle, this one with two grypons between its shafts. Into this their guard urged them, drawing the curtains, pegging those down tightly outside, so that even had they wished they could not and looked out. And as the cart creaked out, Tamisan tried to guess by sound where they might be going. There was little noise to guide her. It was as if they now passed through a town deep in slumber. But in the gloom of the cart she felt rather than saw movement, and then a shoulder brushed hers and a whisper so faint she had to strain to hear it was at her ear. "Out of the castle -- " "Where?" "My guess is the field -- the forbidden place -- " The memory of the this-world Tamisan supplied explanation. IS Controversial Uninhibited Deadly Serious Humorous and Incredibly Interesting! Brian Aldiss... Poul Anderson  .  Piers Anthony... Isaac Asimov .  . Richard Bergeron... Bob Bloch .   yaughn Bode... John Brunner...  L Sprague de Camp .   Terry Carr... John Christopher...  Philip K. Dick... Harlan Ellison...  Philip Jose Farmer... Jack Gaughan   . Harry Harrison... Lee Hoffman   . John Hayden Howard... Leo P. Kelley... Dean R. Koontz... Anne McCaffrey... Michael Moorcock... Alexei Panshin .  . Mack Reynolds .   Bill Rotsler ... Norman Spinrad .  . Bob Tucker... Harry Warner, Jr,   Fed White... and many, many more     Richard E. Gels does his thing. P. O. Box # That was where two other spacers had planeted -- not to rise again. In fact, the one which had come fifty years ago had never been dismantled but stood, a corroded mass of metal, to be a double warning -- to the stars not to invade, to Ty-Kry to be alert against such invasion. It seemed to Tamisan that their ride would never come to an end. Then there was an abrupt halt which bumped her soundly against the side of the cart, and lights bedazzled her eyes as the end curtains were pulled aside. C#ome, Champion and Cham pion-maker!" Hawarel obeyed first and turned to give her assistance once more; but he was elbowed aside as the officer pulled rather than led her into the open. Torches in the hands of spearmen ringed them around. Beyond was a colorful mass of people, with a double rank of guards drawn up as a barrier between those and the dark of the land beyond. "Up there -- " Hawarel was beside her again. Tamisan raised her eyes, almost blinded by the glare as a sudden pillar of fire burst across the night sky. A spacer was riding down on tail rockets to make a fin landing. IF IF  Short Story Starbright The gems were worth a kings ransom... and anybods life I I t was a perfect sphere, about ten owed like a tiny, cold blue star. The old man at the bourse table nodded, smiling in appreciation. With his hand, he shaded it from the lights of the bright exhibition hah, and the blue glow diminished. As the shadow cast by his hand became darker, the stone became dull, neutral, gray, lifeless-looking. He nodded again and pronounced the word "perfect" with a certain reverence. Then, with evident regret, he replaced it in its case, closed the case and handed it back to its owner. "Sean Macnessa, you old jewel thief," he said in mock severity. "That is as fine a blue as I have ever seen," Macnessa acknowledged the compliment with a pleased nod. "I traded five Centauran filigrees for that blue," he said. "Four of them were flawless." They were old friends, these two, although they had not seen each other in years. It was natural that Macnessa, upon arriving at the gem collectors' convention, should go first to the booth of the dd Centaumn, Ommaley. If there were anything truly excellent available in the Aldebaran system, Ommal would know. Ihe noise of the crowd of ccctors, traders and dealers was muted by the walls of the booth. That was one of the reasons for having booths. A certain privacy and quiet was deemed appropriate for the viewing of fine gems. "So it's starbrights that you are after now," Ommaley said thoughtfully, his old gray eyes gazing quizzically at Macnessa. "A pity. I doubt if you will find any here." Macnessa frowned. "I was given to understand that there were several reds in the Aldebaran region." "For two months I have been here," Ommaley said, "preparing for this convention. I have yet to see even a black offered for sale." "How can this be possible? My informant is like you, and rarely in error when it comes to fine gems." O mmaley shrugged. "I have heard that as recently as a year ago, seven starbrights existed in Aldebaran dealers' stocks or in private hands. A blue -- not as fine as yours -- two yellows, a green and two reds. One of the reds is reputed to be a blood red and flawless, and readily excited to its characteristic radiation by even dim white light." "What happened to them?" "Gone. Disappeared. Nobody seems to know where. Of course, you know gem dealers. If something is available, it is not at all difficult to find out about it. Once it has been disposed of, discretion is the rule. It is good business as well as good ethics." "But these are starbrights," Macnessa insisted. "An ordinary gem -- yes, these can disappear. Even a Centauran filigree. But not starbrights. They are too rare and valuable." He paused and considered. "If they were available," he decided, "but have been disposed of, then perhaps they could be made available again for a suitable trade. Unless -- " He raised his eyebrows questioningly. Ommaley shook his head. "The peculiar political institutions of Aldebaran admit of considerable activity which we of Centaur would consider lawless, even brigandage. But I have heard of no gem traders involved in any such activity." "I didn't really expect that," Macnessa admitted. "Gem traders generally know how to stay out of trouble." "Exactly. Now your other point. You reason that if some local collector obtained them, he might be willing to trade them for something you might have. I'm afraid this is unlikely. Most Aldebarans, bless their ostentatious little souls, take great delight in display. None has shown off the starbrights." "You mean they have been traded out of the system?" Ommaley frowned thoughtfully, cocking his head to one side. "That part of it can be considered odd. If they had been traded, one would expect to see the equivalent value in other gems suddenly becoming available. But the better stones at this bourse today have pedigrees a meter long, and tre is nothing irregular, or even sudden, in their recent history. "On the other hand, although truly fine starbrights are not often sold, it IF is possible. But even the usual brokerage commissiQn for handling the transaction would be very large. I have heard of no dealers who have come into sudden wealth lately." "Then what is your conclusion, old friend?" T he old man threw up his hands. "I have none to give you. The starbrights are gone." "I cannot quite believe this," Macnessa insisted. "An old Centaurah like you being at a loss for information about the gems of his adopted Ianetary system!" "I am but a poor dealer," Ommaley said, with every evidence of humility except the twinkle in his eyes. "And what about a young Centauran like yourself, Sean?" "A not-so-young Centauran like myself has the good sense to be respectful of his elders, particularly those of the old sod of Brave Centaurus." "You wrong me," Ommaley said quickly. "I would do you no harm, !n. If I could honestly help you, you know that I would." Macnessa smiled and said, "Of course. But you admit that there is a possibility that the starbrights are still in Aldebaran?" "I admit nothing. If you wish to so conclude, that is no affair of mine." "I see." Macnessa pursed his lips. Abruptly he changed the subject. 'Tell me about the native customs, old friend. I understand that they have 'warlords' here." "It is true. There is a confederation of planets, but it is as loose as the confederation of the states on the planets. Here on IV, power is concentrated in the hands ct seven families. "A hundred years ago the number of local chieftains was much larger, but through war and marriage this has been reduced to the present stalemate." "There is much wealth?" "Oh, yes. Gem collectors' conventions are not held in poor systems." "I mean, could these warlords easily afford material in the starbright class?" Ommaley smiled and shrugged. "If you want to know the common gossip, I can give you the common gossip. Certainly, any of them could to buy up one or two starbrights without straining their resources. Possibly all seven of them." "Are they cdlectors?" 'To some extent Nobody has a truly great collection, though, except the family Brandt. Theirs is hereditary. I ve been told of no recent acquisitions. Lord Hauken has lately shown a greater interest than usual. He has a large harem. It is said that he would welcome a starbright, or possibly a particularly fine filigree of our homeland." "He sounds like a man of taste." "Hauken's taste runs more to political power. He and the Family Brandt are closely matched, and it is said that they are currently engaged in some political struggle. The Princess Brandt has recently disappeared, some say kidnapped, and as a result her mother has taken to the black garb of mourning." "A kidnapped princess," said Macnessa. "How quaint! Is she beautiful?" "She is. She is also very young, although marriageable by local custom." Ommaley suddenly appeared worried. "My advice to you, old friend, is to be very careful if you are thinking of getting involved in local politics. They play for keeps in Aldebaran." "Politics is always for keeps," said Macnessa. "And I am always careful. Tell me something about this Hauken," Ommaley glanced around, then lowered his voice. "Hauken is ambitious, clever, and extremely powerful and absolutely ruthless. The only real indication at he might have kidnapped the Princess Brandt is that nothing has been done about her disappearance. Only he could go unchallenged by the Brandt clan. Even so, there will be blood spilled before long, I think." "Intriguing," murmured Macnessa. "A man with a captive princess, great wealth, and who now seeks a starbright." "There are none available," said Ommaley soberly. "Unless you care to dispose of yours." "I have a small stock of duplicates from my collection," admitted Macnessa. "The blue?" Ommaley seemed slightly apprehensive. "The blue is not available. That is to become part of my collection. And the other items I have are available only in trade for the gem I seek." "I doubt if Lord Hauken has anything to interest you." M acnessa left his friend paid courtesy visits to several ofi the other defers at the bourse. He was quite well known as a collector and trader. Those who had not met him personally knew him by reputation. Discreet inquiries about starbrights brought 'nothing but puzzled confessions of ignorance. The following morning, a messenger delivered an invitation. Macnessa studied it carefully. He was not very surprised to receive it. He had made no secret about possessing some of the fabulous starbrights. The invitation was large, ornate and carried all the trappings of a wealthy but medieval political culture. There was an elaborate coat of arms, surrounded by cartouches of subordinate divisions of territory. i In a stately script, the missive advised him that His Eminence, Lord Hauken of IV requested the honor of his company that afternoon. The messenger who brought it was almost as ornately got up as the invitation. Unfortunately, he knew nothing, or would admit to knowing noth- ing. Again, Macnessa sought his friend at the bourse. "I know better than to warn you," Ommaley said. "But this is dangerous. Lord Hauken will stop at nothing if he really wants your starbrights." "I have been in dangerous situations before." "Your luck and your ingenuity are well known," Ommaley admitted. "But my advice is to take the first ship out and don't come back. Both you and Hauken seek the same thing." IF L ord Hauken was a man of medium height, powerful of build although somewhat given over to fat, with curly dark hair. His eyes were expressionless, but his manner was affable. "Welcome to my humble abode," he said, indicating the huge palace with an expansive wave of his arm. "It was brought to my attention that you honored our system with your presencQ and all know of your eminence in the study of gems." "You flatter me, my lord Hauken," replied Macnessa. "I have a fondness for beautiful things. Gems are beautiful. Therefore, I occasionally acquire one." "Indeed," Hauken said. "Perhaps you would honor me by viewing my collection." "It would be a pleasure," said Macnessa. Hauken carelessly waved, and a small platoon of servants approached with hand carriages. He and Macnessa each entered a carriage and were lifted to the servants' shoulders. "There are those," he said, "who prefer mechanical conveyances, but I have always preferred to use humans. Somehow it does something for my soul." They proceeded along huge, brilliantly lighted corridors, down broad and sweeping staircases, until finally they came to a secluded section, luxuriously planted with all manner of exotic vegetation. A pool gleamed in the late afternoon sunlight. After assisting them out of the carriages, the husky servants vanished, to be replaced by others of a more delicate character. "Few people are permitted in this section," Lord Hauken said wiUh a smile. "It is my private retreat." "It is delightful," said Macnessa. They seated themselves in soft chairs beside the pool. Refreshments were brought. "And now allow me to display some of my poor baubles," Lord Hauken said, and nodded a signaL At once a young, dark-haired girl appeared from behind a screen ef shrubbery. She walked calmly toward the two of them, and Macnessa became' aware that something seemed to be missing. It was her clothes. With a smile, she bowed to the ground before them and held up her hands, which were covered with rings and ter a suitable pause, she departed. She was followed by a blonde, quite statuesquely round, wearing nothing but the green and red firestones native to Aldebaran I. Macnessa was pleased at the way they complemented her color, ahhough they were not of the best quality. The third was dark, small and elfin. Hardly more than a child, she bore herself like a queen. Her jewelry was metallic and massive-looking, contrasting pleasantly with her sBght frame. Lord Hauken said, "You can see why I rarely exhibit my coIlectioiL The special settings are suited only for the connoisseur." "Beyond doubt," murmured Macnessa. "You will find the gems attractive? Perhaps you would like to examine them more closely." Hauken signaled, and the next girl. after bowing to her lord, sat in Macnessa's lap. Her gem was a large filigree-and-emerald, suspended a few inches below her throat by an almost invisible metallic thread. Macnessa smiled at her and was rewarded by a raised eyebrow and ust the hint of a dimple in her cheek. He admitted, in response to Hauken's question, that it was a most attractive setting for a filigree-and-emerald. "I take keen delight in my jewels," Hauken said, dismissing her. Then he assumed a melancholy attitude. "Unfortunately, the collection is meager." "But pleasant," said Macnessa. "Possibly. But I am sure that in your varied travels you have seen much better. Tell me, what would you say is the finest gem in the galaxy?" "This would depend upon the locality and the species of being making the evaluation. However, I believe that most would agree that the stone called 'starbright might claim that title." CCh, yes," said Hauken with stuied casualness. "I have heard of that one. It glows all by itself, I understand, like a phosphor." "Only in a certain sense," Macnessa replied. "The starbright does resemble a phosphor in that it can absorb light at one wavelength and emit light at another. But there the resemblance ends. For one thing, the starbright exhibits far greater purity of color. For another, starbright radiatin is very nearly coherent, which ter of fact, they make excellent lasers with only the most primitive of optical systems, and using only the ambient room illumination for excitation." "I see," said Hauken. "There is another interesting point. A starbright will emit its characteristic glow only if it is excited by light of a shorter wavelength. For this reason, the blue is usually dimmer in white light than, say, the red. A black, on the other hand -- so-called because its characteristic radiation is infrared and therefore invisible -- can convert the entire visible spectrum. Even a very tiny black always provides a pleasant sense of warmth. Large ones are used in industry." "Fascinating," said Lord Hauken. "Where do you suppose such marvelous gems might be obtained?" Macnessa shrugged. "This is difficult to say. I understood that some fine reds would be available in Aldebaran. Unfortunately, I have not been able to locate any." He watched his host attentively, but could read nothing. More refreshments were brought. Lord Hauken, having completed his display of jewelry, caused a small string orchestra to be assembled. It consisted of similarly lovely women, all of whom were similarly underdressed. Macnessa observed that they played with great skill. Finally Lord Hauken came to the point. "I cannot help you with the red starbright. On the contrary, I, myself, am looking for a starbright of any color. I am told that you own one." "This is true." "Then I will buy them from you." IF "I regret to say that this is impossible. The only way I could obtain the red that I want would be as a trade rather than a purchase. Such stones as I can spare from my collection constitute the currency for that trmisaction." "I will buy your entire collection," insisted Hauken. "I never sell my collections -- whether gems, coins or any of the other items which I have collected from time to time." "That is indeed regrettable," Hauken said. With a wave of his hand he banished the all-houri orchestra. The court became very still. "You are sure you won't change your mind?" he went on. "I can pay you well." "It is out of the question." "What a shame," said Hauken. "I had hoped to do business with you. If you won't do business, though, then I must accomplish my objective by other means." Macnessa stood up. "I am not sure I understand," he said. "It is simplicity itelf," replied Hauken with a heavy-lipped smile. "You will be my guest until such time that you agree to part with your pretties." The smile widened. "Naturally, although I am patient, my time is limited. I shall have your quarters searched. If the gems are not found, it may be necessary to use some more potent persuasion on you." "You mean I am a prisoner?" "Certainly notl You are a valued guest. Your quarters will be comfortable. I have another guest, whose quarters will adjoin yours. I am sure you will be well entertained, since the other guest is extremely talkative -- a characteristic which I am sure will be cured in due time." He snapped his fingers. "Guards!" A brace of husky, well-armed men appeared within ten seconds. "Take the gentleman to the special guest rooms. His suite shall adjoin that of the Princess Brandt." M acnessa allowed himself to be led away. While carefully observing the route they took through the elaborate palace, he tried to engage his guards in conversation. The effort was unrewarding. They went down corridors, down stairways and down elevators. Macnessa estimated that they must be at least fifty meters below the surrounding surface level when they stopped. It was a very large room, done entirely in white with curious pieces of covered apparatus set in the floor at various places. When he attempted to examine one of them, he was stopped. The guards told him gruffly that he would find out all about them in time. The idea seemed to amuse them. They stripped him, examined him and his clothes and confiscated his money, pins, ocular cases and sundry minor items. Then they allowed him to dress again. After this, one of them drew back a curtain along the wall, which proved to have covered a barred door. T he first thing that Macnessa did when the guards left was to examine his spacious cell. There was a comfortable chair, a soft bunk, a table, a food dispenser and an alcove equipped with various plumbing fixtures. Considered as a prison cell, it was quite comfortable indeed The decor left somethiDg to be desired, as sterile white was not Macriessa's favorite motive. He noted that the heating system was typical of the planet, being of the faceted radiant variety. Such systems consisted of close-spaced electric heating junctions, each faced with a small plastic lens; they provided an excellent distribution of radiant heat. Several minutes later, while he was examining the food dispenser mechanism to see if it had any useful and detachable parts, he heard the words, "Oh dear." He glanced around. A broad grill panel separated him from another room. There had been a white curtain across it when he entered, but this was now drawn back. "I hope I didn't disturb you," the girl said. "Ah," said Macnessa gallantly, "the Princess Brandt." She appeared quite blonde and beautiful and also, as Ommaley had suggested, quite young. She was dressed in a pale green frock. "I can't really say I am sorry you are here, sir," she said. "Actually I'm dying to have somebody to talk to." "No doubt," agreed Macnessa. He approached the grill and examined it. It was quite securely fastened. "Everything is locked up tight," she told him. "You can't get out when you want to, and you can't get in when you want to, either. But tell me who you are, sir?" "My name is Sean Macnessa, Centauran by birth," he said proudly. "My name is Tintinetta," the girl said, "but my friends call me Lulu." "I see," murmured Macnessa. PW a princess, she did not seem parBcularly haughty. "May I call you Sean?" "By all means." "Good. Sit down, Sean, and we can get better acquainted." Macnessa did so. "I understand you have been captive for some time." "Nearly a month. It isn't so bad, except I don't have anybody to talk to except the guards, and they don't like to stand and chat. Maybe they aren't supposed to. And anyway, a princess really isn't supposed to be too familiar with the help, you know. It seems odd, but that's the way it has to be done." "Are you permitted to contact your family," asked Macnessa, "or perhaps a lawyer?" "I'm sure I wouldn't know what to do with a lawyer if I had one, and nobody expects visitors or letters when one is kidnapped. It seems to be against the rules. Do you know why?" M acnessa sought for a reasonablesounding reply. "Well," he said, "perhaps your kidnapper wants to keep it all a secret." "Oh dear no. Everybody knows I'm kidnapped and they know who did it -- that terrible Ird Hauken. They might not know exactly where I am being kept, of course." She hesitated momentarily and added, "But then, I don't know either." "I believe -- " Macnessa started to explain that she was in the Palace . IF Hauken, but she seemed already to have lost interest in that topic. "Did you say you were a Centauran?Does that mean you are in the jewelry business. Are all Centaurans in the jewelry business?" Macnessa explained, "In times past, there was a great abundance of precious stones on the planets of Centaurus. This has made it a sort of ethnic calling. I myself make it a hobby -- and occasionally a business -- to collect rare and beautiful things of all sorts." "Gem stones?" "Yes." "I see," replied Lulu. "Why did Lord Hauken kidnap you? Did you cheat him? I hope you did. I don't like him." "I do not cheat," Macnessa said with irritation. "I have never foimd it necessary." "But there must be some reason why he kidnapped you." "Why did he kidnap you Princess?" "He wants to marry me, of course." "Ah," said Macnessa. "Ah what?" she demanded, suddenly angry. "I don't want to marry him." "Does Hauken think that keeping you here will change your mind about that?" "Of course not. He knows better than that. But if he has me here, then nobody else can marry me." "There is somebody else, then?" "Oh of course. Lots of boys want to marry me." She added with an impudent smile, "Wouldn't you?" "If the circumstances were suitable, I could think of nothing I should like better." "You are very good at making pretty speeches. Are all Centaurans like that?" "It is sometimes said to be a hereditary trait," Macnessa admitted. "I Imow," she said. "You do?" Macnessa was having some difficulty in following her conversation. "Yes. The Lord Hauken wants to steal your jewelry." She frowned slightly and said, "In that case, you must carry some extremely valuable jewelry. Lord Hauken would never waste his time otherwise. He would -- oh!" Her voice caught. "Now I understand. You must have some starbrights." M acnessa was astonished. The combination of little girl chatter and quick analysis was a little disconcerting. He admitted that he had some starbrights and asked her how she guessed. "It was easy. You see in my family we have had a custom for many generations. Any important princess like me must be given a wedding present of the finest jewelry available. Not many people know the custom has become an obligation, so that if somebody can produce jewelry that is truly the finest, then the wedding is almost automatic." "So that is why Hauken wants the starbrights." She nodded. "My father is all upset about this, too. He and Lord Hauken are enemies. Lord Hauken wants to make a lot of changes in the government, and my father says that the changes would make virtual slaves out of all the people. Only, if Lord Hauken is married to me, then my father will have to compromise with him." "So now Hauken holds you as a hostage." "Hostage? You mean, he might harm me if my father di't give in? Of course not! Lord Hauken is a tyrant and mean and terrible, but he certainly is a gentleman. My father is simply worried that Lord Hauken might force a marriage with me by getting hold of some starbrights. Then, he might hurt me. But not before." "You have strange customs here." "I don't think so," she replied logically. "A gentleman would never think of harming a girl like me, but naturally there is nothing to prevent a husband from harming his wife. Everybody knows that." "And is that why you don't want to marry Hauken?" Lulu sat for several moments considering it. Then she shook her head, making her golden hair form a brief halo about it. "I really never thought about that. I never expected it to go that far. Oh, dear!" "Well," Macnessa said gently, "he doesn't have the starbrights yet." "He will get them. You think you have hidden them well, and maybe you have. But if he doesn't find them, he win simply torture the information out of you. That is what the machines in the big room are for." Macnessa turned and contemplated the torture instruments through the barred door to his cell, and involuntarily shuddered "I am very sorry, Sean," said Lulu. "Really I am. Are your starbrights very good?" "Some of them are extremely good," he told her gravely. She sighed. "Well, then be will marry me, an)rway. So I shall just have to marry him without the starbrights. My father won't like k. But since Lord Hauken will make me marry him one way or another, you see, I might as well do things so at you don't get hurt. Only hs a pity that the family jewel collection wiU not benefit from my marriage." "Can you do this?" "Certainly!" Lulu said. "You don't think we are a primitive culture, do you? A princess is permitted to marry without a marriage gift if she wants to." "Thank you very much," Macnessa said. "It is very generous of you." "I think so, too," said Lulu. "I'm glad you appreciate it. I'll tell the guards when they check us on the next change of watch." Macnessa smiled. "Perhaps it won't be necessary. I am not without a certain ingenuity, Princess Lulu." "If you are going to address me as a princess, you must use my proper name of Tintinetta. You can only call me Lulu when you address me as a woman." "I -- ah -- I shall try to keep that in mind. Princess," Macnessa murmured. "And if by your ingenuity you mean that you are planning to escape, you don't have much time," she went on. "It won't take Lord Hauken long to discover you have hidden your treasure. This will make him angry." IF Macnessa agreed that Hauken might get angry, upon which the girl burst out eagerly, "Incidentally, where did you hide your treasure?" "In a safe place." "All right," she pouted. "You don't have to tell me if you don't want to." Then she angrily pulled the curtain across the opening. M acnessa shrugged, moved to the table, and set about his plans. After several minutes, however, he discovered that he lacked an essential part of the apparatus he expected to construct. He wondered if the luck of the Centauri were deserting him. Soon the princess relented, drew the curtain back again and insisted on attention. When Macnessa humored her, he noticed that she had changed her attire; she was now wearing a new gown and some jewelry. There was a string of seven very large pearls which she said her mother had given her to wear only a few days before she had been kidnapped. She was very pleased with them. Macnessa did not tell her that they obviously were not genuine. What interested him considerably more was a chain of concave silver spangles that she wore. They were almost precisely the right size and curvature for his needs. Agreeably, she let him remove one of them from the chain, and he set to work on his apparatus. Using the silver spangle as a mirror, and several of the lenses prised from the radiant heating, he was able to construct a fairly adequate arrangement. The lenses were not ground to the proper focal distances, of course. But a gem trader has necessarily an excellent background in optics. And Lulu was able to provide an adequate grinding compound in her silver polish. Finally, Macnessa pulled off one of the round, plastic buttons from his tunic. "What is that you are making?" Lulu demanded. "It i called a Golden Ruberg, after a mythological genius." "Did Ruberg come from Centaurus?" "Ruberg, if he ever existed, lived long before Centaurus's humans came out to the stars. AU a Golden Ruberg really is, I guess, is a complicatedlooking gadget." "Does it do anything?" "I certainly hope so," said Macnessa. He fashioned a hood for the main focal point, connected it to a release lever and began to peel the plastic off the button. About that time, a sound came from the big room outside. Macnessa hastily shoved his Golden Ruberg under the bunk. As he straightened up, the door to the cell was unlocked and two guards entered. "Just a check-up," one of them said. "Change of watch." They looked around the room, examined the remains of the lunch Macnessa had dialed from the food dispenser. One of them was about to look under the bunk, when a shriek came from Lulu's cell. "I'm dying," she exclaimed. "I'm bleeding to death. Help!" Hastily the guards rushed out, locking the cell door behind them, and entered into Lulu's cell. It was difficult for Macnessa to tell precisely what was going on, but apparently Lulu had cut herself. The guards were clearfy angry. The cut did not strike them as serious, but they felt it necessary to see to it that she was placated. W hen they finally left, taking her broken spangle chain with them, they did not think to complete the interrupted search of Macnessa's cell. "What happened?" he asked after Lulu returned to the grill panel. "I was watching through the curtain," she said. "I knew you had hidden your Golden Bugbird under the bunk where they were going to look. And I couldn't think of anythink to distract them except cut my finger on one of my spangles. I had to do something, didn't I?" "You did marvelously," Macnessa assured her. "I hope it wasn't too painful." "It was very painful." She held up the index finger of her left hand with its tiny little bandage. "But one must be brave when one is a princess, don't you think?" Macnessa agreed that a princess must be brave, and that she was every bit a princess. "Good," she said happily. "Now you will tell me what the Golden Bugbed does." "First I must finish it." "You don't have much time left. I'm perfectly safe, but I am afraid you are not. Perhaps it is already too late, because once Lord Hauken is angry, he gets mean." Macnessa retrieved the apparatus from underneath the bunk. He took the plastic button which he had removed from his tunic and peeled the casing off, revealing a small, black sphere. He then polished it to a fine slick surface with some of Lulu's face powder. "That doesn't look very important," she said doubtfully as she watched. Macnessa took it over to her and let her hold it. "Notice anything?" he asked. "It's shiny." "Anything else?" "You must have rubbed it very hard, because it is still warm." "The heat doesn't come from rubbing," he told her. You are hdding a black starbright." "Oh, dear. Is that where you keep them -- in your buttons?" She giggled. "Lord Hauken will be so angry. He will plan a very long and unpleasant death for you." "What a charming imaginatiwi you have," Macnessa grumbled, taking the black starbright and inserting it into the device. This operation was a little tricky, because he had to shield it with his hands until he could get the tiny hood over it. "There," he said. "It's finished." He held it up for to see. "So that's a Golden Bedbug," she said, her eyes wide with wonder. "Ruberg. Not bedbug." "Oh. All rit. Now what? Do you say some magic words?" "No words are necessary. I simply press this trigger-like lever, that pusl es on this stanchion, the stanchion leans and forces this little rod over, and that lifts the hood off the black starbright. Then, if the optical sysIF tern is properly set up, the device behaves as a powerful laser." L ulu had more questions, but Macnessa had heard more racket from the outer room again. Hastily he was trying to test the device. The opportunity was denied him. A jangling of keys sounded in the door. Lord Hauken's voice commanded the single guard who accompanied him to ready one of the pieces of torture apparatus. The door opened, and he stood there, scowling, while behind him the guard could be seen busily uncovering what appeared to be a large electric grill. "You mock me by hiding things too well, Macnessa. So much the worse for you. It will merely be necessary for me to interrogate you for a while." He stopped frowning. "What is that?" he demanded, pointing at the apparatus. "You wanted a starbright," said Macnessa. "This is one -- " Lord Hauken interrupted him. "Of course," he spiiled. "Your buttons. I see you have removed one. Well, never mind removing the others. I'll do that myself, while my man fries #our liver a little." The smile vanished as he added, "I am not accustomed to being kept waiting," He advanced into the room. emitted into a thin, intense beam. Hauken screamed briefly and toppled, acrid smoke arising from his head. As the guard turned, reaching for his sidearm, Macnessa held the trigger down and swept the beam in that direction. The guard yelped, his wrist badly seared, and let the weapon fall. Macnessa quickly stepped out and scooped it up. It took ordy a few minutes to truss the lightly injured guard up and lock him in a cell. Macnessa then let Lulu out, and they dressed in the uniform capes that Hauken and the guard had worn. The fit was poor on both, but it was unlikely that anybody would question them closely. Lulu said happily, "Oh, good! Now I can marry you instead of that awful Lord Hauken." S everal hours later, Macnessa was relating it all to Ommaley, in the latter's hotel suite. "I had picked up that black in a trade for some other material. It was too small to be of much value commercially, but it was a starbright." "And you have a certain affection for starbrights. Fascinating. What did Macnessa aimed the optical system and pressed the lever. The hood was withdrawn from the starbright. The room was already at a high level of ambient illumination, and the lenses greatly increased the capture area of the small stone, while at the same time they focused the coherent infrared radiation which the starbright All types for songs  recordings. Records Send poems for # Sunset Blvd., Hyd, Cal. # Lord Brandt say when you returned his daughter and advis that Lord Hauken had suffered a slightly incinerated brain?" "He was most grateful, of course. There was some embarrassment over Lulu's insistence on marrying me, but her mother managed to talk her out of it. Instead of giving herself to me, she gave me one of her imitation pearls." "One of the imitation pearls?" Ommaley chuckled good-naturedly. "This one." Macnessa held it up with mild disgust. "I had to accept it. It was the only polite thing to do." Ommaley reached for it and examined it carefully. He hummed a little tune as he turned it around in his fingers. "Naturally, what I was hoping for was the sort of reward that only the Family Brandt could give," Macnessa went on. "It didn't take much reflection to realize that they were the only ones in the system who had material suitable for trading. Given the custody of display prevalent here, when you told me that Lady Brandt had taken to mourning dress, I suspected that she had pledged the family jewels in return for all the starbrights in the system." "And did you," said Ommaley, as he busily worked on the imitation pearl with a small knife, "conclude who would be the only trader in this system who could be trusted to arrange such a deal in complete socrecy?" Macnessa's mouth fell open with astonishment. He said, "Ommaley, you old jewel thief. You did this to me!" "What I should have done," Ommaley said, "was to buy this worthless-looking bauble from you for half a credit. Instead, I expend nay own time and energy in removing the casing with which I so carefully camouflaged it. Poor Hauken! He wanted starbrights, and he ended up with every starbright within twenty lightyears in his own basement." He removed the last shreds of the opaque casing, burnished the core with his sleeve, and held it up to the light. It was a perfect sphere, about ten the dim light of the study, it glowed like a tiny, blood-red star. # Next Month in F -- i  A long and funny sf adventure novelette  S by Robert Bloch (Author of Psycho, etc.) z: E Authorgraphs E S An interview with Lester del Rey S ZZ And concluding # IZ by Andre Norton " S Don't miss the May If -- reserve your copy now I  IP L ast July the lovely Italian city of Trieste offered its annual week fully dedicated to science-fiction movies. Several countries have entered the Trieste Science-Fiction Film Festival with different kinds of movies all of them well worth seeing. Mostly interesting, this year's festival offered a wide range among science-fiction film trends. US and Japan cooperated to create the space opera Battle Beyond the Stars; Great Britain gathered the First Award for the best movie with an horror fantasy, The Sorcerers, which also got a prize for Catherine Lacey as best actress and a Gold Medal to its star Boris Karloff; the monster saga was introduced by the mighty Japanese spectacle Ebirah, starring Godzilla and Mothra in a satiric vein; a future space world was shown in the Russian movie The Andromeda Nebula; a plain satire was Please, Dont Joke with Martians, from France; an adult political drama was the Czech shocker #, the Justice; even the robot theme was masterfully treated in the best Asimov vein by another Russian spectacle. Its Name Was Robert, Apart from the awards released from the international jury held by famed Italian writer and movie director Mario Soldati, the best movie shown in Trieste was The Androme da Nebula. It is a pretty faithful adaptation of the same novel by Ivan Efremov (see article in International Science Fiction No. #). This movie can be easily considered as the Russian answer to Stanley Kubrick's #: A space Odyssey -- and really it is. Most astounding of all, The Andromeda Nebula as shown in Trieste is just the first of four colossal movies covering the whole Efremov book: movies No. # and # have already been completed and the fourth one is in the works. This Russian cycle will be long remembered as one of cinematographic marvels. Several other movies of short length have been shown here in Trieste. I myself entered the Festival with a short fantasy, Isabell, a dream. The best of all was a French fantasy, The Cage of Stone, one of the best ventures into this field ever made. Boris Karloff got high ratings as starring in The Sorcerers, as he was in two other classic movies shown here in Trieste: The Black Cat and The Bride of Frankenstein. The festivd included an exhibition of fanzines from all over the world. Fans gathered from all countries. As Forrest Ackerman wrote in to the committee head of Sixth Trieste Science Fiction Film Festival: "May sf films and festivals always become IF  Short Story J eff said: "The season's coming. I can feel it In my bones." Mark groaned. They were standing by the water cooler, drinking. It was late afternoon; the office was restless, slack. Mark said: "I don't feel up to it, this year." "Tomorrow you'll feel different," Jeff said. Mark grunted his displeasure. But he knew Jeff was right. The idea was unthinkable, disgusting... until tile season. Then it overpowered a man. And the time was soon. You could almost smell it in the air. The calendar said so too. There was a budding in his senses; his eyes kept peering toward Daisy, almost involuntarily; that was a sign. She worked in advertising. They were friends and bridge partners the rest of the year. And during the season, they had a longstanding arrangement. Daisy too kept watching him all day, talking to him, touching him when she could. "You're ed Mark," she said. "It's because of the season, isn't it?" But he denied it, out of mascline pride. "Hell, it's this pile-up of work," he said. "It's getting on my nerves. One good thing: when the siren goes off, I can tell the boss to go to hell." "Hey, Daisy, how about switching this time?" Jeff said. "Get rid of this guy." "I'm not thinking of anybody, she said. "Come on, we'll have a ball," Jeff said. "A ball, ha. You don't get pregnant." She was good-looking, Daisy. Young and succulent. Good figure, pleasant eyes. Mark found himself staring, vaguely, at the sweet line An IF First Every month If brings you the first published story of a new writer. This month, our writer is Lawrence Mayer, who combines a strong interest in sociology with a long-time interest in science fiction. Married and with two children. Among his other interests are music and history. We hope to see more stories in which he can combine his hobbies and his writing. of her blouse. A small distant shadow crossed his mind. He felt something deep in his body, slight, bothersome, like the tickle of a feather. He tried to remember what it felt like, a year before, with Daisy. No use. Not yet. But the sirens would be soimded soon, for sure... as usual, he wouldn't feel ready... Early June, yes, that was the time. In the nurseries, hundreds of thousands of babies, now three months old, cried for their milk. Dogs would be howling at the moon, cats scratching and whining at the doors... He sighed, put down his cup and went back to his desk. TVyTark lived alone, in a tall apartment house, not far from downtown. From his living-room window, he could see at night the bright city lights. Most men his age preferred dormitory life; but something in his nature liked living alone. Not that he lacked for good company. Jeff lived down the hall, Marie and her friends across the street. Yet he felt, from time to time, a certain sourness in his soul, a cmrdled enptiness. What was it that was lacg? Was it kinship, was it warmth? In the old days, before the Great Change, people lived in family groups. A man of his age, and social class, would have lived very differently then... with a wdfe, small kids, a home, a mother and dad... What a difference had come from that slight chemical change, carried in the air! A slight alteration of the genes: and society, irreversibly, was twisted out of joint. Mark often wondered: what was it really like, before? What was the texture of living then? He knew the gross facts from the books -- about marriage, families, and divorce, about babies bom tiiroughout the year, and brought up at home. Grown men rarely lived in dormitories then. They had houses, homes, they had wives that cooked their food, loved them, took care of the kids. Some things died slowly. Taking care of kids was still women's work. Some even raised children in their flats -- sometimes their imn children, too. But more and more women lived with their friends, in dormitories, apartments and clubs. Children grew up in nurseries and boarding schools, along with other children of their age. During birthday-months (April and March) everybody tinned out to help children celebrate. Even men took part. Babies were not to most men's tastes, but they liked to lend a hand tin the raising of small boys, teaching them baseball, or swimming, or 'masculine crafts, taking them on hikes or to the zoo. A few men formed attachment with boys whom they knew or thought to be their sons. Usually, it was hard to be sure. All in all, though, during most of the year, the texture of life seemed, on the surface, much the same as before the Great Change. Or so Mark thought. Men slept, woke up, ate, went to work, worked a day, and went home. The big difference came once a year, that was all. When the sirens blew. I t was almost nine when Mark woke. He slid out of bed, yawning. To his annoyance, old Edna, the scrubwoman, was standing near his bed. He must have left his door unlocked. She was staring at him, licking her lips. Good God, it's coming soon, he said to himself. He pushed her out of his apartment. She made a pitiful squealing noise as he slammed the door in her face. She was ugly as sin. He showered and shaved as quickly as he could. He wondered, did it pay to go down to the office, or not? No sirens had sounded; sometimes it took days to work up to that point. Still, the authorities were rather on the conservative side; they sounded the horns only when absolutely sure. He flipped a coin; and decided to take the chance... he had so much to do at the office. His flesh had that creeping feeling, his head was mildly dizzy, but he thought: there's still a little time. Edna was still in the hallway as he left. She stared at him. He locked the door and ran to the elevator. Traffic on the way to work was curiously unyielding. A certain tang of irresponsibility hung in the air. Not a leaf stirred in the trees. Gray-bellied clouds hugged the horizon. The air was sultry, moist. He parked in the company lot and went up to the office. Nobody was there but poor Miss Grimm, tottering about in the file room. She was, of course, much too old to be affected by the sirens. Still, he warned her, shouting loudly (she was deaf as a post) that the sirens might sound at any minute. She thanked him and hobbled away. She, like other women of her age, would spend the weeks of the season at the nurseries, helping out. Every young woman ran away. The whole population of babies would surely have died, each year, except for the white-haired crew of women like Miss Grimm, who came streaming in when the sirens blew. They used the nursery as a refuge from the madness of the world; and paid for their sanctuary by caring for mankind's young. IF Mark sat at his desk, playing with a pencil. He should never have come, he thought. He could not concentrate. He could scarcely scratch a word or two on paper without thinking of Daisy The clock struck ten. He tore off his tie. He was sweating. It was late, late, late. His whole body pulsed with a rage of feeling. Then the siren sounded: a high-pitched whining scream. It had an almost physical impact. He ran through the office, to the door. Outside, he collided with Daisy. She screamed, half in delight. knew you'd be herel I knew itl" He dragged her by the waist into the boss's suite of offices. She seemed nearly faint with expectation: her eyes were glazed, she breathed deeply, her body trembled. He closed the door behind them. L ater on, in the afternoon, they smoked a cigarette together and talked rationally about their situation. "I've got to get you to my place," he said. Daisy whimpered, "Can't we stay here?" "We'd starve," he said. "There's nothing to eat, not even a candy bar. The cafeteria's closed; the food's locked up. And where will we sleep?" "Right here," Daisy said. She was frightened now. "It's too dangerous. The boss might come... or Jerry... or Jeff... or anybody. We've got to try it. My car's downstairs." They waited for darkness. When night arrived, they slipped crat the door and down the hahway. A man lay in a heap near the elevator, his clothes in disarray, a dark stain of matted blood beside him. He moaned; they ignored him. "Let's take the stairs," Mark said. The elevator was too much of a risk: who knows who was hiding there? In the lobby, they saw a small group of elderly men, standing about. When the men saw Daisy, a great howl went up. One of the men started running toward them. He was white-haired, heavy; Mark recognized Gifford, the insurance broker whose office was on the #th floor. "Get going,"' he told Daisy. They ran out through the service entrance, slamming the door in the broker's face. Mark's was the only car on the lot. He had forgotten to lock it, and two youngsters were in the back seat. The boy was scrawny and pimply-faced, no more than fifteen, the girl scarcely older. Mark threw them out bodily. The boy ran; the girl clung to Mark, panting hard. He looked into her face, then put her down on the back seat and started to undress. "Please, please," Daisy begged. A crowd of young males, armed with sticks, knives, and stones, stormed onto the parking lot. "They'll kill you!" Daisy said. He picked up the girl and put her down on the groimd. The gang rushed toward her like arks drawn by blood, mat gave tbem their chance. Mark started the motor, and the car raced away. It was only a short distance to his apartment, but his heart was in his mouth the whole way. No street lights shone; no buses or taxis were running; few cars could be seen on the street. An early, eerie moon passed like a ghost in the sky. He drove slowly and carefully once he got onto the street. The streets were unsafe. Mobs of young men prowled up and down, hunters of prey, smashing down doors, breaking windows, looking for girls. Many would fail in their search. They would suffer the tortures of frustration, or settle for an old, unattractive, desperate woman, wandering the streets looking for men; or, when these too were gone, turn to howling and looting and destruction. Mark drove without lights. Daisy crouched in the back of the car. The mobs would have pulled her out bodily, if they saw her, and killed Mark, too if he fought. Violent crime, in season, was a roaring tide. Policemen stopped work when the sirens blew; armies melted away. Afterward, there was little that could be done to mend the damage. By law, any violence over a woman was not punishable; that was simply the way of the world. Other crimes of violence were hard to prosecute, for lack of evidence; juries set free all but those who committed the grossest of crimes. If a crowd of boys smashed Mark to death, who was to say that he died defending a woman, or out of the simple blood-lust of the crowd? And for him, of course, any verdict would come much too late. It was foolish to go out on the streets, except with a pack or gang of men. Many no doubt lay bleeding in the gutters already, drunk and dying alone. "Hurry, darling, hurry," Daisy whispered. On the horizon, the red glow of a fire, burning out of control. They reached the apartment without incident. He parked his car in the alley behind the building. They entered quietly through the rear door and took the stairs. They had eight flights to climb. When they reached his floor, they were both exhausted; they clung to each other. He felt her warm breath near his ear. He took out his key. A heavy hand closed on his wrist. It was Jeff, blocking the way. "What the hell are you doing here?" Jeff said: "You damn well know." "Where's Marie?" "She's gone off... with somebody else." Jeff was younger than Mark, and heavier: a good athlete. The wise man might have let Daisy go. But if he had, he would have been forced out onto the street, to join IF the gangs. And that was hell. He would rather fight. Then, too, he felt his blood grow hot inside of him, felt an animal instinct to defend his mate Cautiously, they circled about each other, looking for an opening. Daisy stood to one side, nervously smoking a cigarette. Whatever her preferences, she would go with the winner. She had to. The Great Change had been fatal to certain kinds of romantic love. Now Jeff darted forward and grappled with Mark; Mark struck back, savagely kicking, biting, and punching. He had to be vidous and fast; it was his only hope. Jeff's heavy fist caught him full on the face; Mark's jaw oozed blood. He shifted to one side breathing heavily; he caught Jeff off balance, tripped him, sent him crashing to the floor. Jeff reached for a knife. But Mark had thrown himself on top of Jeff's body; now he bit Jeff's wrist, as hard as he could; Jeff shrieked in pain; his arm spurted blood. The knife flew down the corridor. Mark pressed his advantage,, pounding Jeff's skull against the floor until his eyes glazed and his body went limp. Edna, the cleaning woman, stood in the shadows, himched over, like a buzzard, waiting... "Let's go," Mark whispered to Daisy. She crushed her cigarette underfoot and followed him. Jeff stirred and moaned dimly. Edna dabbed at his bleeding skull with a rag. Mark had the key now; he opened his door, pulled Dai in- side, they locked and bolted flwm- selves inside. They were sale now... They had food, warmth, and sane-; tuary... and a soft massive bed. D ays and nights passed by, in a dream-like frenzy. In the streets, the panic reached its beit. Angry mobs pillaged every hmise with an unlocked door. It seemed to ihim the season had never been worse -- never more concenUated, frantic, unbound. Luckily, the bolts held on the door, and the windows were too hi to be dunbed. He was more thankful than ever for his privacy. God, the madness #f gang life, the insanity of those dormitories, for men and women alike... Toward the middle of the second week, Daisy's naood turned suddenly sour. She was pregnant, she said. She said, love made her sick to her stomach. But he was stiD a roaring fire "Danm it," he said, "it's too soon to turn off." She sobbed, she begged, she demanded. But his body still screamed with desire; and she was trapped. So, too, was he. A few days passed. He woke up shine stream through the blinds. Daisy was awake, reading a magazine in bed. He reached out and lightly embraced her. She yawned in his face. Her skin felt clammy to the touch. He disengaged bunself, showered and got dressed. It's ending, he said to himself. He stiU felt great affection for Daisy; from time to time, he caressed her, or gave her a brotherly kiss. She found a papback copy bf Gon With the Wind, and spent the day reading it, coyer to cover. Petite her nausea, she was ravenjous for dinner. He made her a feast, 'to celebrate," out of the rest jof his stock of food: a good strong steak, a salad and bread, washed Sown with a bottle of wine. "Till next year," he said, raising his glass in a toast. She puckered her lips. "Next year I might switch. For a change." "I'll kill the guy," Mark said. But he knew it might happen. Three years before, she had gone over to Jeff, halfway through, and he went to Marie. Next year, who knows? But the strain of this season was over; that was well worth a toast. The wine went to their heads; they giggled, rubbed noses, held hands and went early to bed. In the morning, a noxious fog crept through the window. He shut the blinds and shivered. They dressed like strangers, irritably waiting for a signal. Even the motion of a kiss was revolting. At ten o'clock the siren sounded; it was always a trifle on the conservative side. "Can I give you a lift?" he asked Daisy. h smd; "Take me home. I've got to picM up some stuff. Then you can drive me to work." By noon, they were all back at the office. Mark looked for Jeff; when he found him, they grinned and shook hands. Jeff's face was bruised and bandaged; one eye was still swollen out of shape. "Sorry, boy." "Forget it." The first day back at work was always hairy. The boss was illtempered and coarse, as expected. The men on the staff were exhausted; some limped and mused their wounds. The women were more or less morning-sick. Jeff said: "How about bridge? Tonight, at my place. You too tired?" No, it soimded fine to Mark. "Gooi it's a date." He drove out after work with Daisy and Marie. They ate pizzas and drank wine, and sang and played cards. A driving rain poimded on the windows, so the girls stayed the night, on the couches, and made breakfast for the four of them at dawn. The season was only memory now -- less real than a dream. At breakfast, not a whisper of the season intruded. They made waffles and drank coffee, and teased each other like small children; then they drove to the office in one car, tired but happy, laughing over and over again at the jokes of the night beIF IE  Nowlelie I, Sporkf am a true son of the Ayor, Buf what are the strange beings that look like me, who are called "human"? I T liad o bear in minfl tbaf, A unlike other Ayorians, I was yiMble to many more wavelengths hi lit than ultra-violet, yet I lted a perfectly dear view of the two T)eh tr. It was i matter of revenge, and my vengeance for Erne's murder must not be left jto chancel Near one of fiie Tepea traps there was a waterfall, cascading from level to levd high overhead. I climbed to a small depression about one hundred feet above the two traps, half-hidden by the splattering, chilled water. I used only my leg and arm muscles, all the time reminding myself over and over again, "I must dqend only on my physical strength, not my mind!" The ultra-violet hued sun overhead beat hot against my unprotected skin as I squatted down to wait restlessly. "How odd everything appears below," I reflected. Never before had I voluntarily turned off my telekmass -- mass sensing and telekinetic -- faculties. Far below me, here and there across the brilliant tapestry of the valley floor, I could see animals, and plants too, appearing and disappearing at random. Nothing had pattern or made sense... except for the stupid Gen. It was incapable of teleporting itself, so it stayed always steady as a rock, teleporting debris of every kind into its own huge stomach. The heat was almost unbearable. I could do nothing about it. I knew if I were to use my indirect faculties to teleport away the moleades of high kinetic energy near my skin, thereby achieving comfort, I might all too easily become prey of the evil Tepeh! I crouched further bdiind the water-spray seeking its filtering protection from the mercilessly hot sim. Time passed while my body, unused to such energy burdens, quivered in agony. As my mind slowed, I dreamed fitfully. I dreamed primarily of Erne... of her loss... of how I came to accept not only her twinning problem but the obligation to avenge her death. I dreamed of the longdistant day when I first came to Enithra, and she found me... he big red ball bounced before me as I crawled on hands and knees, reaching expectantly for the bright, elusive object. It stopped. I grabbed for it with my hands and arms, only to miss as it jumped away again. Next I remembered the feel of the sharp prick-pain of the needle, the softness of my bed and cover-ing pressure pushing against me, month old body with the terror of falling. Then blessed sleep, so peaceful and calm, though each cell screamed still with its individual entrapped fear. On that same day Emes thoughts were chiefly on her inability to twin, though she was long in years. When her telekmass receptors sensed the large, hot body falling through Enithras outer atmosphere, she extended her finetuning sensitivity to detect its twisted and tortured metallic compartments. IF V ' Evn ms the dropfing object scooped' out. ten mUes or more of viotep and vHtra-rdolet jnngle grotit and Wi. before coming to test. Erne tdeported to the object. Now it rested. Within it she sensed Mo fine layers of organic chemictds, charred and flattened on two formed holding platforms. Slightly forward of these were mechotUccd instruments which triggered gyeed fear in her slight body. They might be traps buUt by Tepen -- har heredory enemies. It was already too late for retreat; the acthity of her masssensing probes and tdekinetic movements wovdd have given her away instantly. But nothing happened. She was greatly relieved when no Tepen energy net clasped at the magnetic structure of her bdng. But when she sensed the strange shidd of polarization surounding, in turn, the exceedingfy stardense mass endonng many directaction instruments, her caution and fear sprang forth again unbounded. In fha center of this red-hot mass was me. Was this a new kind of Tepen trapt Wovdd the Tepen use ordinary animal life, surrounded by strange machines and materials, to capture the 'Ayor?. Portunately for me, the code of twinsUng preverded her from Seedsing furthr help of he kind, TMs puzzle was only hers to solvat Erne, like oE other Ayorians except me, was transparent to every frequency except ultra-violet between # " and #  cydes -- a fact which has occasionally been used by the Tepen in their capture. Site found herself a well hidden cave several miles from the intensely radiating object where she cotdd feel at least partially safe from Tepen while her indirect facuUies continued to probe the wreckage. She threw d protective tdeHnetic shield over the conglomerate of metal and fused plastic to protect it from the ever-seeking tdehmass fingers of other Bsdthra plant and anitnal life. Then she carefiMy studied the sUdd of polarization 'and its associated heavy mass, the broken and twisted direct-action instruments and the animal body which, at that time, was mine. She carefiMy studied every aspect of the gross geometry too, for one of the lowest philosophical leads in supprt of twinning requires knowledge of the geometry which replicates. Just above the two flatten smears of organic matter and immediately before the shield of polarization were the strange figures; Her "humlge of ivttural staUstiIF cdl puttems suggested that these figures might represent forms of direct-action communications. Per haps meaning lay in the spaces between each figure, or in thdr shapes. She died before this part of her twinning problem cotM be confirmed. dozing mind screamed its -grief helping to wake me as my musdes, too, began to shri their anger as I crouched so long and steadily beneath the waterfall waiting for the Tepen. I longed to teleport the diemicals of fatigue away from the periphery of my musdes, thus decreasing the pain sensation. But I dared not. The sun was lower now, only a few diameters above the tall moimtain peak at the end of the valley. I stretched my leg and arm musdes with direct-action physical motion. It gave me considerable release from the pain for a moment; then I forcibly stilled my body again. The pain returned; and it and the burning sun once again drove my thouts into reveries, back to Eme and her twinning problem, though every light and sound receptor of my being remained set on alert for Tepen... As Emes mass sense passed back and forth through the smouldering object, it slowly cooled until all that remained to be studied was the animal -- which was me -- in the cetder, surrounded all around by Tepen#ike direct-action machines. Still wary of Tepen magnetic traps, she inspected the machines atom by atom. One, she discooer ed, seemed to move in periodic rhythm corresponding, roughly, to the period of motion of our planet Brdthra; but always it moved a tenth of a cycle faster. This same cyclical equipment seemed to cordrel the flaw of electrons in other parts of the complex apparatus. Wires and tubes attached to me pulsed with the life of chemicals or electrons. Vluids flowed in and cut of me; while certain skin areas of my body changed density causing changes in dectrornc flows. These changes, in their turn, caused other equipments to blow heavier or Ughtef, dir particles thrmghoul the hollow cubicle. Once she teleported radioactive particles away from the internal structure of the power source, noting how it affected the fhm of electrons in support of dd equipments -- except one, the shield of polarization, wMch seemed to be generated as a by-product of the very dense metal surrounding all. Fate had handed Eme a powerful puzzle as part of her tiwirming cycle; a puzzle which was completely foreign to either her personal experiences or those af ht group! Now satisfied that no Tepen traps existed here, she opened her philosophical self to assist in her studies. Would that flow be animal blood? Could the other flow be the product of animal waste? What chemical was it? With her sensitive mass-receptor she explored the fine details of structure. She learned -- iron so much, carbon so much, nitrogen so much, a little phosphorus here in just this shape. Swiftly, starting with the smallest chemical consist uents and their structure she pieced together her conclusions. Her original conjecture was verified. A form of animal life was trapped inside the hollow object. Erne had need to call on ereative aspects of her philosophy. Other than distorted information about the direct-action devices of the evil Tepen, she had no other experiences remotely connected to this. It was a wonder she did not twin right at that point in time! As the jungle hours passed, animal, but primarily Enithra plantlife, slowly reclaimed the charred area around the broken fragment from the sky. Erne, using the same methodical pattern she had used in study of the equipment surrounding me, now began study of my immature form. How great her surprise must have been when, on exploring the neutral patterns of my mind having to do with ability to teleport and to sense mass, she discovered these patterns to be incomplete! I had no telesenses at all! Time passed -- I in my cubicle in drugged sleep and Erne in her cavern arranging and rearranging conjectures of her twinning problem. The jungle was now nearly covering all. Though I was Emes personal twinning problem, the time of Ayorian grouping approached -- the time when all Ayors, hemisphere to hemisphere, stack themselves in a line as long in length as there are Ayors to form it. Tor much of my early life I was  unclear as to what occurred during the grouping. I have the wrong shape for it. My arms and legs, my light and sound and chemical receptors, do not match the Ayors. To fit the grouping pattern (me needs the "#" shape of the Ayorian, where the top hemisphere is hollow on one side and the bottom hemisphere is hollow in the opposite direction. Furthermore, my magnetic structure is weak. It is diffused cell by cell, rather than strong and unitary in nature. Later I learned that the time erf grouping enables all twinning problems and their solutions to be shared by individual Ayors -- as well as assisting the Ayor, as a racial whole, to achieve a higher evolutionary level. It was easy to understand Erne's IF dilemma when she found me. If she left for the grouping, she would miss her individual advancement by skipping her personal twinning problem -- me. On the other hand, if she didnt attend the grouping, she missed her opportunity to assist in the advancement of the Ayor as a racial whole. She also would lose other Ayorian experiences which might materially assist her toward her next twinning. Since I was the central part of her twinning problem she resolved her difficult dilemma by teleporting me out from the wen protected cubick directly to the Ayorian grouping chamber some five miles below Enithra's surface... Spray from the falling water chilled me in the here-and-now. The formerly broiling sun overhead was much cooler. Soon my skin shivered and tiny bumps formed from the cold. Thick haze appeared, consisting mostly of dust and vegetable oils. It thickened as the sun's weakened image cast longer rays through the atmosphere. Along the valley floor, the teleporting plant and animal life merged into blurs of violet shadows. Hunger pangs began. I relieved them by groping and grasping with my arms and hands for fruits and nuts lying along the waterfalFs edge. I wondered how long I could go without sle. But somehow, I vowed, in spite of cold, in ite of the lack of use of my indirect faculties and other comforts which were yet to be taken from me, I would wait, catch and kill these evil TepenI Nr the clifFs base I quenched my thirst in a novd way. I used my hands; I stooped over, cupped both hands, filled them with water, raised them to my lips and drank! Could the Ayorian children have seen me, many hours of philosophical games would have been stimulated by this novel way of drinking. Between me and the Tepen traps lay the flat, thickened membrane of plant growth, designed by nature to cover and protect a maximum amount of soil nourishment from foreign seeds which might, by chance, have teleported to its base. The membrane provided a sufficiently strong telekinetic protective field to prevent such seeds from sprouting. More by instinct than reason, I tore this plant membrane from the soil with my muscles. I shook the small nodules of earth loose from its underside and wrapped it around my shaking body. The protective membrane provided satisfactory warmth at last I reflected on how discovery of such a novel use, alone, would have helped me to win in the children's philosophical games! I tied long strands of fibers to the two Tepen traps, being very sure to hide the dead strands beneath the soil Then I pulled the other ends to my hiding place overhead. Enithra's insistent plant and animal life would eventuy sense then tdqport needed materials from these dead, hidden strands, I knew. But probably they would last until mdining. Mjr stomach was full now, though I had accomplished it throQ the most unusual -- and fatigpoing -- way of diewing and swaSowing. With my body warmed by the organic membranes and the Tepea traps secured, weariness filled my body. I slept to dream again... Teff below Enithras surface,  Erne experimentally forced my nemomc growth, completing it. My indirect powers grew. This enabled my body to assume the autonondc duties of self-protection from other seeking Enithra life forms, as my slower body growth consciously and unconsciously began the arduous tasks which accompany use of tdekmass faculties. I recovered my conscious awareness for the first time on Enithra whUe the Ayorian grouping assembled overhead. Bvorywhere around me were fascinating Hoys of different shapes, sizes and feeP I reached with my hands and arms to grasp arid fosfle them. Though my new masssensing receptors assured me these 'object were within grasp", my physical efforts were fruitless. My fingers came away empty. Bventudly I learned to reach for these new objects with my mind. By turning sensitivity for mass up or down, I could make small objects appear large or small according to my interest of the moment. Though awakened in darkness, I perceived; though deep in the bowels of the earth, lacking food and oxygen, I nourished and breathed. Erne kept watch on my needs. Up around me, on all sides of me, were the Ayor, every one aligning himself according to their respective polarities and their respective philosophical attitudes, each sharing his twinning problems and twinning experiences. Even one of Enters wonderftd talents could not completely solve my babyhood need for human attention and affection, though she came dose. By use of her telekinetic power, she could cause different parts of my body to feel warm with pressure -- as would be the case if a genuine human held and cuddled me. When an adult Ayorian Hwins," he becomes two independent, separated Ayorian childrenJ Each Ayorian chUd has increased abilities along the lines which caused his parenV to twin; but none has the memories of his parent. IF Ayorian evolutionary po gress can be measured by individual twinnings as ieeU as group growth from group-accepted poSlems. My 'dreams, hdmuped for but a moment, continued with my first groupng where the dialogue, weaved itself into my dreams: Ee is atdmal in body, thus non'Ayorian" said one of the group. "He has a completed neuronic powth giving him the indirect factdties," another forced into the coordinated assemblage. "He must be Pought to full self-sufficiency," another respotided. 'Place him with the children until he develops; Bme shall guide him until her twinuing." In my sleeping mind echod clearly the 'Ayorians booming tones over and ovet again, "Erne shall guide Mm; Bme shtdl guide him; Bme shad guide Mm...I" But Bme was dead. n Qeardung, scorching beat of the  sun wobe me up. Below an# all arountl Eidtbrai life stirred. It moved in jerky, discontinuous jumps, grasping with hungry power. No dou hid the sun's rays. And as far as my lit receptors could percdve, ' no evil Tepm traveled on the vqr floor hdW. I scurried qui(Iy down to the waterfall's basin, again using only my direct faculties of arms, legs and mouth to dean, move, eat and drink. Though my musdes ached excruciatingly, I returned to amt the Tepen. I was fully consdous on this second day. Certainty I was suffering less from exposure to heat than the day before. Almost relaxed, I ddiberatety brought to mind my most early life with the children. Constantty thq laughed at me; my awkwardness in the use of indirect faculties was as dumsy as the very yomigest of the Ayorian children. "Spork!" thqr shouted wiUi glee. In Ayorian language it means "moron." They could talk and bear by vibrating the concave side of the hemihere which composed the top half of thdr body. It was my only advantie over them. I s far superiw in these two faculties. But it was trivial. What was important was the tdmass -- mass sensing and tdekinetic -- faculties. Like duldren everywhere, Ayorian children played those games, which were si # q)osed to prqjare ititftm for the serious rensibilities of maturity. In "hide-and-seek", one playing member teleports an object to an unknown location. When the dgnd is given, all others enlarge their tdekmass network in eyer-expand ing radii in search of the hidden object. Though the object might be hidden, say, only twenty miles away, each position in a three-dimensional sphere surrounding each playing member must be inspected. At each linear increase" of the searching sphere's radius, each member has need to strain; the volume of positions to be searched increases by the cube of the radius. Though most A#mrian children rapidly achieve a capability which includes all of Enithra, I could never find an object beyond a forty mile radius. This will give some idea of just how moronic I was I Another common game was called "squeezing". Each player attempts to teleport the other; each resists the other. If the players are evenly matched, each feels as though he is "squeezed." Eventually one gives way and loses. During my very early childhood, I was better at "squeezing" than other Ayorian children because of my greater mass. But, all adult Ayorians could always handle me with great ease. A third game was called "nullthought". It consists of shutting off one's thought processes. While most Ayorians, with their unified magnetic field of thought, were expert at it, I, with my biological processes and their associated small, cellular, independent magnetic-fields, continually broadcast loud identity waves in all firections. My best game was "philosophical speculations". An object or set of relationships of any kind is selected for the game. This object or set of relationships may be almost anything. Each of us children woidd contemplate on the object or relationship. If an object were chosen, we extended our mass-sensors down to lowest levels to learn and discuss composition of structure; or, if relationships, we all speculated and formed hypotheses. Those who advanced the most novel conjecture -- determined by majority vote -- which also fitted consistently within the framework of past "accepted" conjectures, won. Though I could not play this game until I was five Enithra years old, the first day I played I won. This caused much surprise to all -- Spork the moron, won! One of the children had selected as a particular relationship a triangle drawn upon the dirt floor of the jungle. It had one right angle. While all busied themselves in sensing the relationship of lines to lines and angles to angles while tiying to generate new conjectures, I walked up to the triangle and drew a square along each side using the sides of the triangles as one of the sides of each square. It seemed quite obvious to me that the sum IF of the areas of the two small squares was equal to the area of fit big square and I said so to the others. They decked and reecked this hypothesis -- then finally agreed to the worth of my conjecture. How big I felt on that dayl Usually though, speculation involved some object. Since I could seldom extend my tdekmass sens(w lower than molecular levels, I seldom ccHijectiured much that was new or novd... C ouds formed on the right side of my valley, now hiding the sun, I prepared another of the vegetable growths for cover, found food which I carried back to my hiding place and composed my mind on my tedious wait. How useless all those games were to the Ayorian children, I thout. They were designed to train them in self-protection from Tqpen. But they were miserable failures. The clouds overhead now grew faster than the valley's puffballs could consume th, as they freely floated in search of minute particles of air, moisture and other nutrients. Water dropped from them. I had often been exposed tl rain. I didn't mind it Always before I could tdeport the water away from my iin u fast as the rain dropped. But now, without the use of my indirect faculties, the water soon soaked me, making me even more miserable. To mature toward twinning, each individual Ayorian must develop new and novd philosophical qeculations about reality. Now, crouching in the heavy rains, groveling beneath the dead organic skin which provided me with some warmth, hiding beneath the heavy grief wWch was still mine, I almost smiled. I was thinking of how many philosophical games I could now win with what I had learned of direct-action effectsl But all these things were unimportant, compared to my need to avenge Erne's death! When I woke, late on the next morning, I was exhausted and stiff from exposure to the cold and wet. The sun was already above the valIqr's peaks, raising steamy tendrils from last night's rain. What water was left unused by Enithra's jungle life now flowed in tiny rivulets all over the valley. The waterfall behind which I crouched thundered louder, with a thousand new fountains fanning out wider and thicker from every splattering ledge. I moved closer against the rocky backdrop, trying to avoid the greater water-spra, to no avafl. My vegetable covering was now pitted and holed by the telekinetic acti(Hi of Eniriira' life during the night It offered little protection. After securing new covering and turned to my watching post My thoughts, as usual, returned to the evil Tepen and their source. TTundreds of thousands of years earlier, the Tepen and Ayor had been one tribe. During the time of twinning of some long foiv gotten Ayorian, his philosophical twinning problem involved speculation on the 'purpose" of material things. He solved his twinning problem with the conjecture that material tilings were to be used "directly' -- that is, without use of one's telekmass ilities -- rather than "indirectly" as would be the case with use of these two abilities. His children followed this natural line of speculation. From then to the present day, each of his descendants solved Ms twinning problems within the consistent framework of those assumptions. They separated from the Ayor, developed a material science and an urban society. Unfortunately, as thdr capadty for directly using material things grew, their capacity for mass sensing and teleportation declined. As these capacities declined, their philosopMcal sense of ritness and wrongness degenerated. They gave up groupings in favor of a single, all-powful leader and a distorted, evil drive toward mastering thdr environment through direct means. Capacity for tdekmass changed to a sense of a different kind. Each Tepen was surrounded at twinning with complex mechanical equipment responding directly to hb mental command. Their shells contained clever energy fidds capable of resisting the planet's life forms and their ever-present telekinetic tug. Different, more ingenious energy fields were devdoped to catch other life forms. These captures e placed into huge machines wMch ground them into proper size and separated out thdr chemical constituents. The results were injected as nourishment into the machinery surounding each Tepen. My first contact with the Tepefi came when we children chased "tree" nuts. As each tree teleported its ripened seed away, hopefully to land in a region of nourishment within the capability of its feeble sensing apparatus, we would spring after the seed. First to find the nut was free to use it for his own nourishment. How delicious th were! On that day we had all sensed the quickened ripening of one seed. It was ready for a quick journey. We tensed, ready to spring after it ho matter wMdi way it flew. The nut ripened, qrang fromi bur location, then disappeared from everyone's tdekmass sensors -- IF mudi to the surprise of everyone. Ovef was far the best of us in the game of "hided-seek". He found the nut first .  . but he also distqipeared from our sensing network We searched long and diligently for Ovct I was the lucky -- I should say imlucky -- member that found him. C'loating in the middle of a jungle clearing was a huge cage. I bad never seen anything like It befwe. It was surrounded by pulsating energy fields which cycled from low infra-red throng ultravirfet. As I watched the unusual disIy, I could see Ovef's small, now shrunken form reflected ba( to me each time the energy field passed fiirough its ultra-violet sequence. ThMi I noticed the nut. Somehow, diabolically, it had been drawn far beyond its normal range to land in the energy trap. Ovef, being the strongest, had sensed it and followed. And he, in turn, bad tripped the energy fields which now contained him. As soon as the other Ayorian children found us, without exception, they shouted "Tepenl" Then just as quickly tdeported themsdves away. Having no Rouping experience upon which to build my own fear of Tepen, I was not to be dissuaded so easily. I hid from sight and waited. Our past conjecture games had taught me the Tepoi used traps triggered by use of me's own telekmass faculties. So, I hid, using only my usually useless light receptors and other direct-action faculties -- just as I was now doing high on this ledge. I kept my eyes on the terrified Ovef. When evening came I heard the Tepen approach, their floating suit-tanks scraping agdnst Enithra foliage. Ugy protrusions of direct-action machinery covered the Tqen's metal suit-conveyances everhere. No wonder Erne suspected my arrival vessell It must have looked just like a trap of Tq)enl I thought, staring at the mechanical assemblages . Though they nne much noise whQe talking, and though the noises sounded mudi like the Ayorian language, I could not understand them. One turned a small knob on the outside of his metal suit. The differeit colors surrounding Ovef changed to a steady ultra-violet. I could see him crouch back terrified. Another Tepen unloosed a small photocell which sout out Ovef, then steadied on him. I later learned that this small photocell had pi(hed up Ovef's ultra-violet reflections, then transmitted the returned energy to a form which could be easfly sensed by the atrophied mass-sensor of the Tepen. As soon as the photocell steadied on Ovef, the Tepen produced a hose, which sprang from a complex cubical box. He pointed it directly at Ovef. An intense light beam poured forth from the top half of the hose and an energy stream came back from Ovef to flow through the lower half of the hose into the box. I saw Ovef shrink and puff apart, as though he were as tenuous as one of the puffballs which suddenly disintrate after their air is teleported from inside. The Tepen turned off the corusucating energies around the cage and reset the trap. Then the three quietly floated away from the clearing in the opposite direction from where I was hiding. I didn't follow them that day. Oh, how I wished I might have had the wisdom, the knowledge, the courage and the maturity to have done so. Erne might even now be alive if I had. his day of waiting was very  much like the other days -- hot, uncomfortable, and full of pain for both body and mind. Puffballs lofted above and floated ever#here. The predatory Ettel consumed its share of stupid Qens. The waterfall flowed on, though now decreased somewhat in size and noise; and the Tqpen cages continued to tantalize me below .    I remembered when I was twelve Enithra years old. life until then had been one long agony of attempts to overcome my handicaps. I couldn't mass-sense any better than the least of the young. I couldn't teleport much better. I did have some little advantage on abstract relationships. But I couldn't go below the chemical level in mass-sensing, nor could I reach beyond a forty-mile radius. I lost in every game; I was the moron. Yet I often wondered what it was about me which, unBke other children, enabled me to watch Tepen from hiding? Was this to be my twinning problem -- as I was still Erne's? And, if solved, would I then twin to become two helpless, moronic children? Life continued its pastoral flavor. We moved. We played games. Once each year the grouping occurred -- without me -- and twining occured sporadically here and there as one or another A#rorian individual reached his philosophical plateau. Though life continued the same for all the other children, it was different for me. How could Ayorians live so carefree when their very Eves were endangered by Tepens? I wondered time and again. When I asked the adults this IF question, tbdr only answer was, 'This must be your twinning ooblon. You are stOl a chfld in many ways. But maybe, for you, twinning comes early." How could a small animal-like child, as I was, make any impression on tbdr conqlacen(y? I know now that Ayms have no sense of hatred or revenge as I do. My emotions are probably doser akin to the evil Tepen than to the Ayor. Each game became for me a philosophical vessd within whidi to faon the fabric of Tepen revenge for Ovefs death. Each abstract conjecture was turned over and over in my mind to find some handle allowing me revenge. Still I did nothing any different from the other children. Not yet could I be stirred to actually change my cultural behavior pattern. T He day Erne was caught was beautiful to view witii light receptors. She and I were dowly teleporting through this beautiful valley, so covered with flowers of all kinds. I remember commenting to Eme on how much I wished die ors with light reciters like mine. Her comment was typical -- how much she wished I could sense the tieautiful energy levek operating below my thrediold level in the flowers I I described for her how one ticular flower slowly amassed bundles of red and green nodes as it reached seed maturity. I had to use Ayorian energy wavdength dimendons in my descripticm, instead of color names; so I diink the visual impact was not truly appredated by her. Yet I was so anxious for her to share my sensitivities that I forged ahead. I told hsx how each red and green node swelled up to form S hemisidierical dot which aligned itself among others like it to fmm an unusually beautiful pattern. Then, as eadt dark red node teleport at maturity, a shifting, changing pattern ai)eared. The background blue of tte flower-pod suddenly showed in place of the dark-red seed. Now one could see the shifting blues, reds and greens weaving over and oyer into captivating patterns. While I was trying to describe to Eme what I could view with lit receptors, I remember also seeing a row of the rounded diape of the Cien, a rather dinnb animal. They were teleporting debris of all kinds to their stomachs, without regard to food-value or type -- just as thqr were now doing below me. Usually th continued tills rather engorging bdiavior until their stomadi howled with protest, after which thqr Then, on awakening, they repeated thdr senseless qrde of satiation and pain. IP The predatory Ettd corild be seen tdeporting from hummock to hummock behind the rovr of Gen. One Gen disa)eared and Erne and I both could sense its rqq)earance in the stomach of the Ettd. The other Gen continued their placid Muttony unconcerned. We came to the end' of this valley surrounded on all sides by steep, sweeping dieer diffs. I was about to telKnrt to the top of one large diff when Erne tted the trap. Perhaps Erne was getting old and cardess. More Ukdy, her twinning problem was heavy on her mind. She made the error of assuming the trap was simply what it appeared to be. #ie carefully cautioned me to stOlness while e searched th ho mind for the trap's outer boundaries. Another trap, set just for this fcontingency, caught her mass-sensing probe and spnmgl It drew her to it and dosed with the same polyidic field I had seen endosing Ovef. Her voice screamed to me... then was suddenly cut off. I expected the trap to behave just like the one I had seen around Ovef. But this time the Tepen had energy field passed finrough the ultra-violet, and I could see Erne wither and dissipate as the ray of energy passed through her body. I raged with mixed anger and grief. I struck at the trap with my bare hands. Wilfly, See some stiid Gen, I threw ddnis at the machine -- to no avaO. Then, in total exhaustion, I droiqed to the gioimd, my recers strangely ' letting forth streams of liquid while my dtest heaved breathlesdy. Erne was gonel I tras alone. Of an the Ayor,oidy I would seek her revenge, I knew. When sanity returned to me, I carefully searched around both traps -- 'Bot with my mind, but with my body. I actuafiy used my # and arms to Walk, physicaUy, around each trap. In my mixture of aoga and grief, I perceived the philosophical principles which could be tested only by me -- not the Ayof' -- that these traps would be tri only by mind energyl Gtrefufiy, theii, I Walked around each trap. Tentetivdy, ready to draw back instantly, I held my hand around the sustaining fidd. I could feel only the normd pluck of mass-sensing fingers from the forest in the background. Then, as my hand passed physically through the net, whatever readual mind energy existed in the cdls of my mm triggered the trap. My arm felt pulled inward my body tensed muscles in the poate direction, easdy conquaing the pull. An around the iadde of the trap I moved my ann tmfil I came to tlie back ef aaother of the death-ray devices With something solid to grasp, I dosed my Hngers and pulled it toward me. It came easily and I crushed it imder foot. My hand came to the container from which the telekinetic field emanated. I reached for a heavy rock, and with my hands I raised the rock over my head and crushed the box flat. When I had done the same to the other trap, I searched the area carefully for any sign of Erne. Only a thin residue of dust bore witness to her once beloved presence. Many hours of philosophical conjecturing with the children had sharpened my mind insofar as relationships were concerned. Though I was a moron to the Ayor and their children, I knew now, without iuivocation, that only I was capable of handling the relationships imposed by the Tepen. These were of an order of abstraction foreign to the Ayor. But not to me. Also, it seemed somehow a sweet kind of justice that I, who was Erne's twinning problem, should carry on hr twinning goals -- What am I? What is my purpose in life? And I now consciously, deliberately accepted ha: twinning problem as my own. In the pseudo-clearness of thoughts genarated from my grief and now by my terrible anger, I could almost sense the end ibat ould have been Erne's to observe, to enjoy, and to use in raising herself bond her own philosophical limitations resulting, thereby, in the evolutionary necessity and pleasures of twinning. But not quite -- not quite! Much yet -- too much -- had to be done and learned! 'he next night I dreamed again.  The ledge was somewhat wider now because of the decrease in size of the waterfall. But I was wearying. I held myself in a tight ball to keep from falling off the hundred-foot ledge. In my hands and aroxmd my legs were twisted new strands of vegetable growth, tied to the Tepen traps below, ready to warn me should the Tepen return at night. I dreamed that Erne was alive again -- only ten times larger. My child-like form grew to her size, then went beyond until she appeared no more than fist-size. I reached for her, swallowed her, then began to sense her expanding form inside my body. Tighter and tighter she became until every cell of my body contained a part of Erne. When the pressure released I felt good over all my body. Afterward, I slept deeply and comfortably for the first time since Erne's death... IF m T ike shiny, tiny glow-light insects, teleporting here and there, now strong, then gone, the Tn's body-suit reflected electro-magnetic radiation from the sun as it weaved its way in and out of Enithra's thick foliage. Unlike any ether moving object in the valley, these tiny sparks moved continueusly -- contrasting greatly with the normal Enithra stop-and-go modes of locomotion. There were seven sparks. In my imagination I could once again view the monstrosities which had attacked Ovef so long ago -- metallic jacket, oval in shape; many mechanical protrusions of unlmown functions attached to their protective suits; each floating above the groimd as high as my knee, bringing their tops to about shoulder height. My mind raced, my muscles tightened and I placed every effort of my physical, emotional and mental makeup into the concentrated task of watching Tepen. I was close to avenging Erne's death. At their slow, lumbering pace, half the day passed before they reached their traps. Then they rushed from one trap to the other and back again. Excitedly they made their Ayorian-Iike but incomprehensible noises to one another. I rolled a heavy rock to the edge of my hiding place overhead. As one Tepen neared the base of the cBff directly below me, I dropped it direcAly on top of him and his machinery. I coidd see his yellowish fluid ooze between the crushed metallic membranes of his suit I had conjectured that since, except for themselves, their total environment was made up of life forms capable of only indirect action, not once would they think to focus their mechanical light cells upward in search of another directaction being. Apparently I was right Quockly now they unlimbered an odd-lookiiig box. Nervously they began turning and adjusting its controls. I dropped another rock. The five remaining increased their efforts with the machinery. I placed myself in their position and imagined what their chain of reasoning must be: If someone were teleporting rocks on them, their protective machinery in the traps, which normally sensed telekinetic fields then took protective action, was not working. Furthermore, no purpose would be achieved by fleeing from their hidden enemies, No conceivable escape speed could possibly outdistance teleported objects. I counted on such thinking on their part as I dropped yet a third rock. The yellow fluids gushed forth from another of the evil Tepen. A polyordic ligt surrounded their mechanioal assemblage as the its field. loeide this spectacular diqlay, marldhig off the limits of th aevr telddnetic feld, floated the four reuMuniog Tepen. At their head, aimed at the exact center of the surrounding barriar, sat another of (he automatic death rays which had killed Eme. Croudiing back further from the edge the ledge, with only the tep of my head and my tit reoqtms peng over, I gave thought to this new Tepen course of action. As (he nut-tree seed had beea caught aa soon as its telinetic Add had been activated, and as Ovef had been caut for the same reason, I believed that the Ten had established a dmilar trap. Were I to exmdse my own iniffirect facidties I would surely be instantly tdqrarted to the center of the tr: -- where the death ray would destroy me. I could, of course, continue to dn ro# on (he Tepen with UQf arm muscles. But, if I did, they wotdd sooner or later learn about my use of direct faculties. Then th Would probably be capable of takhog couBleiMiction against me. Sfoce I couldn't kill more than one at a time by this means, the risk was too great. Fhrtiiermore, did I want to let Tepen everywhere learn bf my pecidhur abifilfes? And were these seven to be the end of my revenge for Erne's sake? I thought notl For my kind of revenge, seven Tepen loould not satisfy the emptiness of my spirit I sensed, thou; only immaturely as yet, need for more knowledge and a greater campaign against these hereditary Ayorian enemies. T he sun slowly approached evening-line as both the Tepen and I patiently wdted in our deadly game. For some time each of the Tepen rotated his photocells in all directions of the compass. Finally, tiring of this profitless task -- none ever thought to point his photocell up in my direction -- th hung the cells back on thdr protective suits unused. My plan was Weil formulated now. I descended along the waterfall out of their posdble hue of until, reaching their level, I was well hidden behind the final Und largest fountain of falling water. I cirded qtdetly behind the rear bf tto water-spray, finding additional screen from thick growing trees. Further bqrond, well hidden from the Tepen lineH)f-sight, sat # row of Giens. One was asleep. This one I grabbed with my arm muscles, carefully transporting it directly behind the foliage near the fomr Tepen trappers. I reasoned tfoit sooner or later the Cien's indiscriminate appetite IF Z# would cause a piece of material to follow a telekinetic line beginning with its source, throu the field of the Tepen trap and ending in Its huge stomach. When the Gen's telekinetic field readied forth to seize its prey, the Tepen trap would automatically pull it in -- just as it bad for the tree nut and for Ovef end for Erne. The Tepen death ray at the center of the trap Would automatically and nearly instantaneously destroy the Gen. I hoped the Tepen would condude that their Ayorian enemy had been killed. Back again on my ledge overlooking both the Tepens and the sole Gen, I waited for its awakening. When it came, the sun had reached its lowest point before disappearing for the day. As with all Cien, it opened its huge stomach sack to receive all manner of organic and inorganic materials for possible nourishment -- an # dhing at all which was within its sphere of telekinetic strength. I could almost feel the Tepens' jubilation over their success when the Gen was caught and instantly disintegrated. They talked to one another in their strange Ayorianlike gabble as they disassembled equipment and turned back across the valley floor in the same direction from which they had come early in the morning. The sun was half below the horizon as I dipped from stone to stone down the w to follow them. The remaining Tepen advanced steadily toward the valley's side, never once turning photocell to the rear. Wiin a matter of minutes I readied the traiEng Tepen. I dubbed it to death with a broken brands The dusk lit vanished. The Tepen forged ahead before me, bobbing, weaving and floating, each in a sphere of radiated light. Where they floated above the broken valley floor, I had to scramble and push and tug around many formerly minor obstades. My musdes, nowhere near used to this unusual punishment, ached wifli dull pains of growth and sharp pinpricks of over-use. As their lit-cndrcled bodies floated easily the valley's steep banks, I nearly weakened in my resolve not to use indirect faculties. I could easily catch up by a small use of teleportation. But I dared not. I knew that other Ayorians, far above me in the use of indirect faculties, were falling to still unknown, hidden Tepen traps that used thdr own superiority against them... Eventually exhausted and crying from the fibers of every one of my muscle filaments, I reached the steep rim overlooking the vaBey beyond. There, deceptively dose in the dark, was the object of the Tepen's travels. Glittering lits shone from the floor of the valley dustered in near circular form. Many lights sparkled like teleporting fireflies as iSxey moved from point to point in the dark. The cool breeze blew jungle foliage back and forth between the lights and us. This sight of my first Tqen village fully explained the avoidance of certain areas by my fellow Ayorians, T forced air into my laboring lungs by forcing the expansion and contraction of my weak chest muscles. Then, taking a calculated risk, I rushed down the valley floor, ignoring noise and the possibility of discovery though direct sight. I slowed to a fast walk, taking more time to push organic materials away from my direct path of approach as I neared the closest moving light. Within the Tepen's light-circle I could see his photocell pointed away from me, as with the otha: Tepen, I struck him down with some elation. Only two to go! When the next rearmost member fdl as easily, we were better than halfway across the valley floor to the Tepen village. I airoached the last unsuspecting Tepen close onou to strike when my mind presented me with a novel conjecture. I could make this Tq)en teach me what I must knowl Fortunatdy for myself and the other Aymlans, I gave little thought to potentially dangerous devices available to the Tepens conscious defense and unknown to me. Possibly poisons from my muscular over-exertions clouded my thinking. Dropping behind the remaining Ten, I drew upon my mental images of one of the children's early conjectures. Quickly reconstructing their concept, I re-created the system of forces of their speculations by hand. I tied two stones to the end of a long vine and began whirling it around and around over my head. When I could feel both of the stones pulling against the muscles of my arm, I let the whole system of forces fly at the floating Tepen. It whizzed around and around his body, successfully tangling most of his outer instruments. I jumped on his suit, adding my weight to the total assemblage, then grabbed at his photocell and jerked it off. As the combined weight of my body and the rocks exceeded the telekinetic capacity of his protective suit, we settled to the valley floor. I kept my legs wrapped around the Tepen's suit. I reached for vines near us, using them to more completely entangle the captive. Then I broke off all of his suit's sensory jMrotruberances. This Tepen had the trap-box with its death-ray attachment I slung the trap-box over one shoulder and, using the end of one trailIP ing vine, tugged the monster along the valley floor in the opposite rection from the Tepen village. We traveled most of that night and the next, using only my powers of direct action. 'Yelekmass faculties had always made my search for food and water a minor task. Now, using only my direct faculties, I found the diore far more time consuming. In a valley far away frmn the Tepens point of capture, along a stream whose banks were lined with edible food, I took the precaution of tying every protruberance on the Tepen's covering machinery with live vines bound to sturdy trees. In view of the fact that I hadn't bothered to respond to the Tepen's noises, that it couldn't "see" without its photocell and that it couldn't mass-sense or teleport beyond the confines of its own mechanical protective suit, it must have been very puzzled indeed, I set the death ray next to him, carefully pointing it away from us. By changing control knobs and observing effects, I was able to learn how it operated. Then I turned it back toward my captive, plugged his photocell back into his suit of machinery and pointed the death ray directly at him. Finally, I tied his body to my foot with a long vine and slt. The Tepen did not move all that night When I awoke, the sun was well overhead. The air was cool and slightly misty. I ate and drank -- the hard way -- then turned back to my captive. When his photocell was moved to include me in its vision, I pointed it at my finger, which was hdd near the death-ray switch, I made motions with my finger, pretending to switch the death ray on. Even a stupid Cien could get that messagel I moved its photocell to cover me and said, "SporkI" Then I moved the cell to the stream of water, using Ayorian terms to say "water." The beast and I learned. Its language was rooted in the Ayorian tongue, though concepts were structured around material things rather than philosophical ideas. I am sure that without the peculiar characteristics of my sensory network -- light and sound receptors, etc. -- I would have had as much difficulty learning its language as would any other Ayorian, Most nouns had concrete referents which I could point to, merely by moving his photocell from object to object. I don't mean to imply that I was unusually bright It was just that my Bmited capabilities happened to match the Tepen better than they did the other Ayor. Tn a matter of weeks I was able to converse with my captive, tbou haltiitgly. I learned wbere his fooid bos was located, allowmg it to t whatever nourishment needed. As his food decreased, his rage would sometimes bo# over; im, #:e me, he could preface anger. Then I would learn thinp which I am sure it had no initial intention of communicating -- Ifte tte novd idea that messages could be sent from him to his fardistant village. I Aut off its photocdl and denied it food until it taught me about the form of electromagnetic radiation which could bounce around the planet very nidly. It took me somewhat longer to learn tiiat one of the metallic suit protrosioas, whidi I had already luckily broken, bad been, constructed for the purpose of sending such messages. Even though I now felt confident that I could separate its lies from its truthful statements, I moved to a further valley and kept even more careftd watch for searching Tepen. Months passed while I learned not only the language, but the function and Bmitation of every one of the sint's appendages. Some were for grasping objects, others for plugging into equipment found only in their viige or larger cities. Some were spedal puixose protrusions whose functions were related to the trapping of Aycnian life. It was this latter feature which gve me the most difticulty, and about which I wanted the most information. As day followed day, I reflected ever more frequently on how difficult it would be to kill the Tqen, without motive, so to speak. As my ability to communicate increased, a certain empathy grew between us. Can anyone  anotii being xmder such conditions? I wondered often. Then I learned the Tepen purpose for trapping my Ayorian brothers and toe intended purpose of Erne's death. As toe death-ray tube worked on Erne, the return enagy given off by her death was collected and trapped in side attachments. Thdr sole motive in so capturing this peculiar life-energy was in toe sensory pleasures its rdease gave them. Just as I considered the meat of the nut tree to be a ddicacy worthy of expending time and energy to obtain, the Tepen considered Ayorian life a delicacy worthy of toe search and death of their fomor ancestor. How depraved toe Tqpen had becomel When every drop of knowledge 'ms squeezed from toe Tepen, now finding it anotionally easy to kill, I pushed a toarp stick through opoiings in its armor. Then, using my indirect faculties for toe first time in months, I teleported toe dead organic mass out of toe armor. IP I studied the suit piece by piece, putting into play the many hours of philosophit conjecturing I had practiced :ivith my playmates. There ms not much about the machinery jrhich I did not learn, of my senses, including mass-sensing and teleportation. T manipulated the machinery with my mind, and I also doubled my body inside the suit, directing it to move from potet to point. It was imcomfortable, but possible. So long as I trigger no mind traps, I could be free to move within their village should the need arise -- that is, assuming they did not notice the small light receptor holes which I had created in the suit -- and assuming I actually understood as much about the Tepen as I thout I didi IV 'hough, I, Spork, the Ayorian ' moron, determined to become Spork, the Ayorian avenger, I was not so stupid as to think I could yet imitate the Tepen in their own village. Furthermore their village was but a tiny ou#ost of their complete civilization. Time and chance had caused the number of Tepen to be approximately equal to t of the Ayoe -- nearly one hundred thousand each. I needed to convince the Ayor of their need for eliminating Tepen before we Ayors were all hunted down and killed. As yon will immediately know from what I have said of my foster race, this was to be a most difficult task. Even more difficult was the problem of just how an Ayor could kill a Tepen, even if he so desired. The. only abilities native to Ayorian life were the indirect faculties which Tepen used against theml The time of Ayorian grouping had arrived. There I h(ed to make my plea, and so I teleported the death ray, the empty Tepen suit and myself to the place of gathering, a good five miles below the surface of Enithra. Even Tepen direct-action technology could not go this deep -- yeti As the Ayor arrived for the gathering, they arranged themselves into their new patterns of polarity. Their line curved along tiie top of the immense cavern and seemed to throb with intense philosophical thout, as their individual messages contributed to total racial growtii. As usual, they ignored Spork, the moron. Using my indirect faculties, I filled the huge cavern with sufficient air from the planet's surface, so that sound waves could be formed. Then, with a loud voice, I shouted, "Listen, fellow Ayoriansl I have discovered many new things about the Tepen which all must diare." Unable to break their chain, the Ayor ike back in unison, one himdred thousand strong. "What can Spork, the diild, contribute?" From the fonn of their response I knew I had met with great pessimism. In the adult mind, I was yet a child because of my obvious limitations. "I am as a diild Ayorian, but am not a child for me," I responded. "Hear me out. Can the Ayor escape the Tepen traps? I can I Can the Ayor kill the Tepen? I have! Can the Ayor talk the Tepen language? I can! Should I say, then, that all other Ayor are children because they cannot do these things which I can?" This thought, as I knew, was original and novel to my brothers. Their interest and respect had been aroused, so I pushed my advantage. I explained how their "squeezing" and "null-thought" games were useless -- indeed, worse than useless, for the very act of protecting one's self with such mental energy activated Tepen traps. I demonstrated the death ray and Tepen suit; I explained the depraved purpose of the energies taken from dying Ayors and I told concluding with the logical appeal that all Tqen must be killed everywhere. 'his became the longest grouping in the history of the Ayor. There was much new to learn, discuss and iare. I had upset some of the most cheried attitudes found among my brethren, and they knew me to be truthful. They had need to re-structure their complete phibsophical concepts. Weeks passed while they weighed, assessed and evaluated each concept. I felt I was winning my main point -- and so I dM, but in a way very much different than I supposed. First, they abolished the squeezing and null-thought games. They were to be replaced by another called "non-sensing" which was to be played very much like the nullthought game. This, they felt, would give the children practice in not triggering Tepen traps. I tried to explain they were talking "nonsense" with their new "non-sensing" game... but got nowhere. Second, they abolished the nut game to avoid traps of the kind which had killed Ovef. I tried to explain that Tepen would make other traps and other ways of accomplishing the same objective. They were little concerned. They felt that, statistically, it was improbable the Tepen could harm the Ayorian race very badly. I didn't try to explain my idea of the need for Ayorian revoke, since this concept would have been completely foreign to their nature. IF a Yet I tried to describe the great loss to the Ayorian race when individuals such as Erne were prevented from completing their twinning problem. This only brought the response I had heard before. That is yowt twinning problem. If you are not a child, solve itl" Thus, Spork the moron became Spork the only Ayorian avenger! I teleported ba to Enithra's surface dong with aU the other Ayorians, my emotions in turmoil over their refusal to face what I felt was reality. Alternately grief-stricken, then furious with rage, I moved from point to point along the surface without thought to my direction or purpose to my motion. One hundred thousand Tepen were too many individual life forms for me to wage war against alone, I knew. Yet my deep loss over Erne and my non-Ayorian vow to seek revenge burned deeply. Tventually, almost by accident,  I foimd myself in the valley where I had been led by the Tepen who had killed Erne. There, far along the valley's lu violet and ultra-violet floor, shone the reflected metal of the Tepen village. I teleported myself to a point close by the village, then walked to its edge with my legs and feet. There I physically climbed one of the larger trees overlooking some of the metallic huts to better observe the Tepen activities in secret Had I not known of their common genetic heritage I would have thought the Tepen and Ayor to be totally different races of beings. Where the Ayor Kved freely, nomadically, across the planet's surface, the Tepen built and lived in cavelike metc structures tied together by concentric circles of metal-like paths that spread out from the center of the village. I could tell the metallic humps were living quarters because the Tepen floated along the paths into and out of the structures. When night came, I retreated from the tall branch of the tree by use of direct action faculties and, in similar manlier, filled my mouth and stomach with berries found on bushes nearby. As I ate, I watched ripened berries teleport themselves in random directions, as was normal for all Enithra seed. Since my present indirect sensing faculties were deliberately self-protective only -- automatically protective against Enithra's ever-seeking plant and animal life -- I was incapable of following any of the berries' flight paths. I knew the approximate teleportation strength of the berries. Thu# I knew, within a radius of several arm lengths, about where they uld be appealing. Since me of IF tile Tepen metal paths ms locate jnitiiin the se's radius of strength chance alone I uld expect the ipearance of ripened seeds scatter along the path. Ncme could be seen. Nor did any appear while !E ate. Knowing now that Tepen protective devices were operating throuiout the vQlage, I returned to my watch above the village with even more caution Nighthdl deepened and artificial lighting turned on. Yet, during all the long, cold night of watch, nothing stirred bdow me. At sunrise, three Tepm floated toward the village exit, carrying traps and photocdls. I quickly descended to ground leved where I puriied my w through foliage and fallen jungle debris to hastily follow than. We travel for three days, rieegmig nits, across five different valleys, lore reaching the first trap. This time my direct action fatties -- my leg and arm muscles -- were hardened. I had no difficulty following behind in seaet. As they worked over their first Ayorian trap, rain tumbled from lingering clouds ovahead. As I bad learned to do once before, I quickly covered mysdf with vegetable growth to keep off the cold rain and to cture some heat for my body. llie rain provided me th suffideot cover so that I could now creep doser to the working trio. Thdr vdees were dear and I now knew thdr language. Stimulated and dted over success in capturing another Ayorian delicacy, they re-set the trap and began their slow flotation toward the next one. When they had gone beyond thdr normal seeing distance, I drded the re-set trap to study it from every angle. There were two of them, the same type which had caught and killed e. I could easily trigger them or destroy them. I coidd eaaly follow the Tepai and destroy every trap they set. But what then? Sooner or later, Tepen would know of my presence. Could I, dngle-handedly, kin one hundred thousand Tn? But if I let the traps lie untoudieS Ayorimi brothers would die, one at a time. Even at the risk of being discovered by Tqen, could I allow this to happen? One tr was conspicuous while the other was bidden. Both were protected from Enitiura's ever-seeking life-fingers by tiny, mechanically generated indirect-action fields. Thus they could lie on the jtmgle floor indefinitely in wait for unwary Ayorians. Whai the Ayor sensed the obvious trap and reach ed to switch it off, the mechanically generated entrapinng field hid several feet away was activated -- and the wary Ayorian to be tricky into trafping himsdf. # eaching tbrough the trap's telekinetic barriers physically, I pulled away one of t two death lays. I set it beside the other, orienting it in the opposite direction but hidden low. FMcking the switch to the on position, I separated a strand of fiber from one of the plant growths and tied it to the switch. Then I wrapped the other end of the fiber to the "off" switch of the other ray, and thus set up my Tepen trap. Carefully, I turned the "off" switch "on" -- and the strand of fiber tugged the "on" ray "off." Since both switches were constructed the same way, whatever happened to one switci caused the other to do the opposite On their next rounds, the Tepen would see the energy field surrounding an obviously "on" death ray. Then, when they extended a mechanical appendage to turn it off, they would be positioned just right to be blasted by the other ray as their action tum it on. I was highly pleased with this arrangement. Ayorians might still be trapped, but it was not as likely. And it was almost certain that investigating Tepen would be. With heightened aithusiasm, I followed behind the Tepen, resetting every one of the fourteen traps they visited. Sooner or later th would begin to suspect my presence. But I s determined to put fear into them while they were learning! The rain had ceased several days earlier. While I was not entirely comfortable, I was not cold and wet as before. 'he three Tepen approached their home valley late in the afternoon, moving as quickly as their mechanical devices would allow. One Tepen trailed far behind the others, beyond their hearing distance. I leaped upon his suit, grasping it tightly with both arms and legs. I struck first at the long distance radio message wire, breaking it off while my legs clung to his cold, metallic coating. My weight prevented it from moving. Reaching for jungle vines, I quickly tied the waving appendages of the struggling Tepen, hoisted him to my shoulder and ran into the jungle, away from the village, faster than any Tepen could follow, until I felt myself to be sufficiently far away. Then I put the Tepen down for a careful surveillance of every feature of his suit. I ignored the items which were familiar to me and broke all those which were unfamlBar. Once sure that no traps could remain hidden in these features, I teleported both of us to a distant spot. Interrogation of this prisoner went swiftly. I drew a design of the village on the jungle floor and asked for the function and purpose of every building. Though the TepIF en d not ye me pcoper answers at first, several days of starvation broHt truthful statements. I learned the village was one of several himdred scattered aroimd the planets siurface, each having file ef function of trailing the Ayor. I learned the purpose of each metal mound -- which building was their laboratory, whidi was their resting quarters and which was their long-distance communications center. I knew where the source of thdr iergy was located. And, I bdieved, I now knew how to destroy their villages safely. But if I could teleport only forty miles per jump, how long would it take me, Spork the moron, to find several hundred villages scattered across the complete planet? Also, how could I handle their citadel village, where sat their ruler -- the one for which most of the Ayor "delicacies" were being collected? At, say, fifty Tepen per village, two hundred villages made only ten thousand Tepen, I could hope to destroy one by one. I would still be facing ninety thousand at the other main center I I continued surveillance of the viflage, harrassing its members while puzsling over my extra twinning problem. Obviously I needed Ayorian assistance. Equally obviously, the other Ayor needed to hdp themselves; for, even should I be successful in my campaign against Tepen, Ayors were still untrained to the art of self-preservation. What of the next unpredictr bale obstade in their racial progress? The next captured Tqen taught me about planetary maps and described how Tepen travd swiftly from dty to dty merely by stepping into the grid of one of the little metal mounds. It looked and sounded very much like a kind of slow, mechanically induced teleportation device. This Tepen started the idea which slowly percolated upward to my consdouaiess. There were exactly forty-two members in the village. If I could dose off their tranxartation door as well as their means of longdistance communication, I believed the village would be mine. V T ate that night I dressed myself in one of their mechanical suits and slowly made my way to the communication center. I inspected everything very carefully for traps before teleporting chunks of instrument, far away in the jungle. Except for a slight tinkling of certain materials as my mental shearing cut through the equipment, all was yet quiet. I worked my way just as carefully near their transportation door where, in the dark, my infra-red presence would look to any watching Tepen as though I were another Hepen. Any dose inspedloin mmld certainly give me away, however, so I depended on their habit of nitly deep. Again I carefully Inspected the tranrtadon device for Tepen traps. Emding none, I also teleported part of this assemblage away from tte village. Neither communicator nor door were any longer operationaL I should now find exay forty-two helpless, or near hdpless, sleeping Tepen. I quietty counted thdr floating figures. Yes, there were exactly forty-two floating figures. I unlimbered one of thdr death rays and sprayed its beam slowly across the awag figures. Deliberately missing one of them, I watched as it rushed past me through the dooriway. The forty-one dead Tepen were ho longer a threat As the escaping Tepoi ran first to the Transporter, then to the commimicator, I teleported out of the mechanical suit, keeping it afloat and active-looking with my indirect faculties and directing it to follow the Tepen overtly while I followed seaetly. The stage of damage found on both the communicator and transporter gave the remaining Tqen its due to my nature -- at least I hoped so. It headed from the useless communicator directly to the laboratory, with my empty suit trailing behind. I made the mechanical tqpendbge on the suit aiqear to open fte door and follow it, as my mass senang extended throughout the tirea sensing his every move. It reached for a bulky device, swiveling it around to face the trailing suit As soon as I sensed his appendage reach for the "m" switch, in rapid sequence I mentally shoved the empty suit forward to distract its attention, teleported a large chunk of wall away from the building's side for my own entry, damped mental energy on the Tqh en's appoidage to keep it from activating the bul weapon and, with my musde jumped through the open hole to its side. The creature was completely surprised. My musdes were more than suffident match for his mechanical linkages. Furthermore, if needed, I was now free to use my indirect faculties without fear of traps. Once it was tightly tied with metallic cords I turned with antidpation toward the bulky object of my search -- a device which intuitive reasoning, alone, told me must exist. It was nearly tidce as large as me and nearly exceeddl the limit of mass which my mind could transport Its barrd-diaped body was linked by cables to S square box, th the usual switch. I reached out with my mind beyond the village to find a Gen and (continued on pEe #) IF IF  Feature Such stuff as dreams are made on rphe average man probably does not remember too much of what he dreams, and that may be a good thing. Aside from nightmares -- often based on some standard form of total helplessness or estrangement -- most dreams don't leave a vivid impression because there really isn't enough interesting material in them to be worth remembering. Even nightmares depend on emotional rather than intellectual interest, as a rule. Apparently the human mind spends a great deal of time in sleep in dreams, many of such low intensity that they aren't remembered at all. Tests have indicated that this activity is far from useless, however; a man who is interrupted whenever his brain pattern shows dreaming to be taking place gets very little real rest out of his sleep. And if he is prevented from dreaming for several nights, he becomes disoriented to a large degree, even though he seems to sleep enough. Apparently the memory gets loaded down with assorted bits of garbage and random associations during the day, and dreams act as the mental garbage collector; the useless material is dumped. But the sleeping mind can't afford to clear itself without some care, so samples are played back and examined. It seems a shame, however, to think of all that time spent in dreaming with so little obvious reward in enjoyment. We know that a dream can be an interesting experience. Now and then, one with some stronger angle will apparently trigger the ideeping mind to build some kind of a story around it, and the personal sense of involvement makes it seem far better than it probably is. A few people are lucky enough to dream mostly in stories -- so far as they can rememba:. IVe known a few who could be waked up and go back to sleep deliberately to finish their dreams. And IVe talked to a couple beside myself who have caught their minds delaying a dream until they could replot it, and then finishing it in the improved version, without waking up. Probably that happens mostly to writers, who spend a fair amount of waking time re-plotting basic story ideas. A ndre Norton is obviously touching on a matter dear to our wishes with her expert dreamer who can control all of a dream (supposedly) and supply this welldeveloped story as a dream to an-, other. Obviously, if we could do it only from one mind to another, it would be as expensive as she indicates -- limited only to the filthy rich. Others have suggested taping or broadcasting dreams. If there were some way to program a better grade of dreams for most sleepers, it should be even better than television, and save the apparent waste of several hours we now spend in sleep. Of course, someone would pitiably figure out how to add commercials, but most roses have thorns somewhere. Most of these stories in science fiction deal with entertainment. But there is no reason why it shouldn't serve a serious purpose. A dream done by a man who could really play the piano might be very helpful to the dreamer who hasn't time for steady practice; a dream of Valley Forge could give a sense of the cold and misery that no movie could convey to a history studeit. So far, nobody has been able to do much to influence dreams, beyond such crude things as dropping an object with a loud crash -- which sometimes produces a dream of some random kind around the noise. But dreams are an intrinsic part of sleep -- as even careful study of a dog or cat will show. As such, they must be tied into the gaieral mysteries that surround the whole matter of sleeping. Here science has developed a wrinkle that isn't exactly new, but is finding new interest though better means of appl#dng it. This was once called electronarcosis, but now goes under the simpler term of electrosleep. It's a fairly old idea, first developed by a French scientist named Leduc near the turn of the century. Today, the Russians seem to have gained the lead in this field, using far more sophisticated equipment than was possible until recently. American scientists are just picking up the idea and experimenting with it. The basic idea is to make the brain sonmolent through "negative" IF stimulation with pulsing electric current. Here modem electronics has provided us with excellent means of adjusting voltage, amperage and frequency, as well as the pulse shape. The brain generates a number of pulses of its own. One of these, known as the alpha rhythm, is always strongest and most regular during sleep. Scientists working with electrosleep usually use this alpha rhythm as a model, preferably while stud)dng the alpha rhythm of the subject to be put to sleep. First treatments last for about half an hour, increasing gradually up to three hours, after which the subject is allowed to sleep normally. Many cases of insomnia can be cured with a dozen or so sessions, though more stubborn cases may take the course over again later for several times. The sleep induced seems to be normal, restful sleep, with none of the undesirable side effects that accompany most chemical means of causing sleep; there is no dopey feeling on awakening, nor is sleep unduly prolonged beyond the normal, healthy period. G ood results have also been achieved in some cases in treating schizophrenia. One theory to account for this psychosis is that the brain is overstimulated (by fear, worry, habit, etc.) until it is suffering from overexhaustion -- which makes sleeping more difficult leading to worse exhaustion I The electrosleep machine can break the cycle and give the brain cells a chance for the completed rest needed. Electrosleep equipment is generally available in Europe, such as the Elektrodorm models in use in Russian and French clinics. But so far they are not available for home use -- .nor should they be. The technique is still experimental, and the possibility for serious and permanent damage does exist without skilled medical supervision. But it seems probably that in the future, after enough is learned of this, every bedside might have its simplified Elektrodorm -- probably with a slot for the patient's own alpha pattern to be inserted. With mass production, the cost of a machine should come down to less than that of a television set -- and a black-and-white one, at that. Maybe by then scientists will also have been able to learn a bit more about sleep and how the brain manages it. They've had very poor success so far in trying to read what goes on with the encephalograph. The location and basic nature of the processes in the brain are almost as much a mystery as ever. By experimenting with the creation of wave patterns -- or the augmenting of them -- by electric currents and pulses, it may be possible to learn more. There is no way lo isolate a single type of brain wave from others when reading the signals of the living brain. But we can already isolate any type of signal to be sent into the brain, and its effects can then be studied. WeVe bug suspected that the alpha rhythm is the basic clue to our sleep activity; now, by sending such a pattern through electrodes into the brain, weVe at least proved a direct relationship. AyTost of the other brain patterns are more difficult to pin down than the strong alpha rhythm. Eariy work with the encephalograph showed a fairly simple series of fMitterns, but it was often deceptive. The early recording macUiies had a limited ability to handle higher frequencies, and often smoothed off the sharp peaks of the pulses -- they were like a bad tape recorder tr#dng to handle piano music! Modern "high-fidelity machines have shown that the brain's activity is far more complicated than the early traces indicated. Here we can again approach things from the other end. If there is a suspicion diat certain pidse patterns are involved in the use of speech, they can be experimentally induced and modified, while the subject undergoes a continuous test to determine the effects. This may also have the additional benefit of helping people with aphasia and other mental difficulties with speech. Some work has already been done in tT#dng to alter dreams by means of pulsed signals. Speech patterns can be impressed on the wave trains -- or series of pulses -- just as speech modulation can be impressed on the wave trains of radio signals. So far this work is highly experimental, and no significant results have yet been published, but the beginning of dream shaping and dream creation is already with us. Andre Norton's dream-linking machine isn't Impossible, theoretically, either. We know a great deal about shaping, modifying and amplifying pulses; some of our electronic organs can turn out shaped pulses of fantastic complexity to produce the ready waveform of a clarinet or the effects of a whole percussion section going at once -- all from the electronic manipulation of the most simple pure tones. It seems entirely possible today to take the brain patterns of one person and impress them on the brain of a second individual, particularly if the recipient is sleeping, without interference from signals from his sensory organs. A highfidelity encephalograph can pick up the brain patterns of the sender and impress them on a train of pulses being sent through something like the Elektrodorm to the mind of the recipient. It can be done with animals as well as men for IF early experiments; such things as a pecking movement from a sending chicken to a receiving one could be easily detected, at least. There have been reports of such efforts to establish "wired telepathy" reported previously, but IVe yet to see evidence of adequate equipment being used, as should be the case now. Almost certainly there is going, to be trouble in trying to make the pattern of one mind fit another. The signal from the sender will probably have to be modified considerably before it can be effective. But with sufficient study and even today's computers, this difficulty can surely be overcome. Nobody can guarantee that there will be any clear transfer of thoughts -- though that remains a possibility -- but there is a good chance that at least certain basic mental activities can be impressed on one brain from another. The machine to do this is, of course, exactly what Andre Norton describes briefly in her story. It is interesting to note that she limits it generally to one person to make dreams and another to receive them -- as would be the case where some computer-controlled modification was needed to make the dreamer's patterns fit the recipient mind. T ike most "inventions in the ' egg", this presents all sorts of potential benefits and problems -- and most of them are ones we can't begin to guess accurately until the invention reaches common usage. It's too valuable a research and teaching tool to be wasted on entertainment, for instance; so was television, which was constantly being written up as a means to inform and instruct -- until the entertainment moguls made it a household commodity. The most obvious danger is the transfer of thought patterns that somehow deform the recipient's own thoughts (except where that is the therepeutic goal). Will a man who wants to learn to appreciate music from the mind of a great musician pick up such things as a terror of insects -- or some ugly racial prejudice he didn't have before? Or will use of the device weaken his own personality and establish a mere shadow of another mind in his head? This may be a serious problem because the impressed pulses can be made much stronger than the natural ones. I keep wondering, however, if dream-spinning will go through the phases that so often hit out ancient attempts to share our dearns -- will there be a "new wave" among the dream makers? Or will there be "adult" dreams restricted to those over sixteen? Where do you draw the line between dreams and nightmares? IF  Short Story Never mix pepper with nerve drugs -- or there'll be the devil to pay I he Coventry Drug Company, as you are probably aware has (due of the largest research departments in the business, with some himdreds of chemists, pharmacologists and others of related skills, all dedicated to the discovery of new and better, but confceivably more costly, drugs. Quite 'a few echelons from the top of Shis great organization was an unhappy yoimg man named Peter Five years earlier Pete Coghill, in somewhat erratic piursuit of his Ph.D., had been notably extroverted, given to beer guzzling, ball games and dates with good looking wenches. He liked everyone aroimd him and was liked in turn. Though not exactly anybody's genius, he gave promise of becoming a pretty good biochemist and in a gener sort of way he looked forward to a university career. This was not to be. The formidable Professor Metz assigned him a problem, the nature of which is neither here nor there. It was a neat enough problem, one on which Metz had already worked and published. Young Coghill was expected to do no more than fill in some detail. Injudiciously, Coghill undertook a new approach and came up with findings which completely (and beyond dispute) invalidated the great man's earlier work. If Peter had been a few years wiser, or if he had paused to consider the possible consequences, he would have found a way to save face for Professor Metz. Instead he discussed his findings freely and gleefully around the Department. Metz had perforce to admit his error, and, indeed, encourage Coghill to make the work a part of his thesis; but naturally he was bitter about it and began, as did some of his faculty cronies, to avoid seeing Coghill when they passed in a corridor. Just after Peter was awarded his doctorate. Professor Metz died of a broken heart, perhaps complicated by a kidney ailment, and the atPeter abandoned his plans for an academic career and went to work for industry. His first assignment with Coventry had to do with a drug called Neonexal, which had been passed by the Food and Drug Administration and was about to be put on the market. Peter was responsible in large part for the unwelcome discovery that occasional lots of the drug could cause a skin irritation which, while not serious, was unsightly and a likely basis for lawsuits. So Neonexal was held up for nearly a year while some changes were made to eliminate its allergenic properties; and one senior research man most unfairly blamed Peter Coghill for making an issue of a trivial deficiency. In the following year he discovered three errors, one of them serious, on the parts of colleagues, and he hadn't a friend left in the entire organization. Top management began to consider him an insurance policy against mistakes and oversights and gave him the task of reviewing the reports of many of his co-workers. It took most of his days and left nearly no time for constructive work of his own. Teing an insurance policy had  proved at first to be unrewarding. Little by little, however, Peter Coghill was adapting to his job, coming to value a discovered error as an accomplishment in itself and even savoring the act of pouncing on the perpetrator. He was in the course, that is, of becoming a thoroughly unpleasant character. His evenings provided little relief from the increasing loneliness of his days. The good looking wenches he had known in college seemed mostly to be married and he had mislaid the facility to locate new recruits. Most nights he drank a couple of beers in the corner tavern and retreated to his apartment with the worthy but unexciting excuse of keeping up with the scientific journals. One day near the beginning of his fifth year with Coventry, Dr. Coghill sat alone in his office-laboratory, considering whether to eat lunch first or to read Dr. Brock's monthly report. He decided to do them together. Brock was in the course of synthesizing compounds the derivatives of lysergic acid itself, but structures in which the parent substance was subtly altered in one way or another. This is not to say that Coventry wasn't just as aware as any other responsible group of the dangers of too much about the psychoses, the suicides, the accidental deaths and the crowd of pimply fizz heads which followed in its wake. Nobody like it; but it was much too valuable a clue to the biochemistry of the brain to be ignored. So Brock was synthesizing analogs, and other people were testing them in mice and rabbits and cats and monkeys, and Peter Coghill picked up his red pencil, all ready to find a good juicy mistake. Peter had given up going to the company cafeteria. It was no fun always to eat alone at a table for six. Most days he put together a lunch of sorts before leaving his apartment and, along with a few journals, his attache case would usually contain a couple of sandwiches and a thermos of coffee. Today his fare included a hardboiled egg, and he performed the neat trick of chipping the shell off cleanly without once looking at it. He read: "The free base (#-#J obtained from the hydrochloride with silver oxide had a strong blue color. MP #-#." "Now why the hell," said Peter aloud, "would it have a strong blue color?" He flipped back a page to look again at the structure, sensing the possibility of an error. "n esting in his in-basket was a collection of vials, each containing a minute sample of one of the experimental chemicals of current interest. Coventry circulated these in the hope, not often realized, that they might stimulate someone to serendipitous thought. Sure enough, there was Brock's #-#, along with several others of the series. The sample was blue, no question of that, even though it was a fine powder. Very odd. No reason at all for it to be colored. Carefully Peter spilled a little heap of the blue dust on a sheet of paper and even more carefully sniffed it. Odorless. He returned to his reading and his lunch. He found nothing to red pencil and very little to give him pause up to the last page, when the room shook. His first thought was that an explosion had occurred in one of the nearby rooms, and he shot out of his own laboratory and stood peering up and down the empty corridor. There was no sound or sign of excitement. No alarm bells clanged. It could have been a very small IF earthquake, he told himself. Leaving the door open, he went back to his desk and sat down with a thud on a chair that had suddenly become an inch higher than usual. Peter closed his eyes, then opened them and looked at the white pad that should have had a small heap of blue powder on it. The powder was gone, or very nearly. Next to the pad was another piece of paper, once folded neatly, now open. It bore a scatter of salt and pepper. There were crumbs of hard boiled egg on both sheets. He stared silently at the evidence and wondered what he had just done to himself. Structures like this one (to the extent that you could infer such things) weren't likely to be violently toxic, but they were very likely indeed to produce distortions of the mind or senses; some of them damned unpleasant. Peter knew this from reading and observing, not from personal experience. By habit he shied away from pill taking and had never been tempted to that practice of some biochemists to try things on themselves. The knowledge that he was now absorbing into his bloodstream a compound of totally unknown properties ws dinstinctly discomforting. The room shook again, quite sharply this time, and he was on the point of rising to see whether anything on the laboratory benches was in danger of falling off, but reminded himself that these tremors were subjective and unreal. So, of course, was the slow tilt which he was now perceiving -- a few degrees to the right, back to normal, then a few more degrees. He remembered reading about a hoped-for morphine substitute which not only slanted the room, but convinced several experimental subjects that they were hanging from the ceiling. His own laboratory came gradually to rest about fifteen degrees to starboard. Not a bad angle at all. The room looked rather nice that way. He wondered whether the entire Coventry Tower Building pointed slanting toward the sky, and told himself not to be vainglorious. Where the hell had that word come from? He really ought to let somebody know, so he dialed Dr. Brock who more than anybody should be interested in #-#. There was no answer. The wall clock told him it was a quarter after. Everybody would be at lunch. He tried Dr. Kinnison. No answer. Rather xmbut hung up before they answered. Oo okay, he would ride it out  alone. Lock the door, that came first. Against the rules to lock a lab door during working horns. Pfui. He wasn't working. He bent one leg against the tilt and made it to the door gracefully and with some aplomb. The latch made a satisfying snick, though his fingers weren't working quite right. Thurber had said something about nouns showing up in the past tense; that his fingers were becoming fungers. How neatly Thurber stated things. Back at his desk with notebook open and pen poised, he sat prepared for all things to be said or left unsaid. His clothes had tingled as he walked, which must be noted, and so he wrote (back-hand to compensate for the tilt), 'garments do tingle." The door opened and Dr. Hugo Carreford walked into the room. That he had entered through a just-locked door was less surprising than the visitor's identity. Peter had once heard Dr, Carreford make the keynote address at a very important meeting, had read several of his papers and had seen his picture many times. Carreford was an accepted authority in half a dozen an advisor to presidents, in short the prototype and paragon of scholars. Peter leaped to his feet, pawing the air only a little to correct his balance. Perhaps in the presence of so great a man the aberrant angles were correcting themselves. In any case the tilted room became unnoticeable. Tlease," said Carreford, and waved a bony hand in typical gesture. 'Tlease, Dr. Coghill, do sit down. Relax. You make me feel my visit is somehow dismaying. There, I'll take this lab stool. Time was, you know, when my rump was better contoured to the lab stool than the easy chair. I see that you smoke, so I'll take the liberty." Peter watched ratr numbly as his visitor fitted a cigarette to the long black holder which had become a Carreford trademark. He found his voice. To what am I indebted... ?" he began, then realized how utterly silly the question sounded, and let it trail off. Carreford blew a plume of smoke toward the ceiling and smiled, the corners of his mouth turning up till he looked like a sculptured sat#n. 'Yes indeed, a natural question, which I can and shall answer. First let me say that my appearance here, though made at some personal inconvenience, is a pleasure. One is always happy to meet a fellow who is due to accomplish great things." 'Hahl" said Peter. "I beg your pardon?" 'Hahl" Peter repeated with fervency. 'T know just what accomplishments I'm likely to make; tearing apart work that somebody else has done. That's what. And you know it, too." Carreford raised bushy eyebrows in astonishment. do?" Of course. For a minute I forgot I was doped up with a hallucinating agent. You walked in through a locked door, which should have been a tip-off, but I'm IF not thinking too dearly. Besides, you do look real, you know." 'Thank you," Carreford said drily. "Its reassiuring to be told. As a realistic hallucination, then, I should know what you know. Is that it? Let me assure you, the situation is not quite that simple. You wont mind, perhaps, if I ask you some questions?" P eter's laugh held a note of hysteria. 'This is asinine. It's one thing to see a hallucination, something else to debate with it about its reality. How screwed up can you get? So go ahead and ask your questions." "You have already answered a first and most important question. It required, you see, a rather spedfic concatenation of circumstances to bring me here; the drugs, that is, your character and your need." Peter lost the thread of this remark and took to staring around the laboratory. The effects of the #-# were now much more interesting than alarming, and the concern with which he had viewed his role as an unwitting guinea pig had disappeared. "Sam Brock," he remarked aloud, "is going to be very much interested. J'he light in the room seems to have increased not less than three-fold." In a mental aside he noted his casual use of the unfamiliar expression. "Three, four or five-fold. Dazzling. The walls are lacy and light permeable. Yonder Venetian blind has fulfilled itself with crackling streamers of blue. In fact, you're the only thing here that looks solid, and you're a phantasm. I could walk right through you." "Please," said Dr. Carreford, "don't try it, and I'd really rather you stopped peering at me as though trying to see through. My interior is, after all, rather personal. But now to business. You are unhappy because you find yourself cast as a critic of the scientific drama rather than an actor." "Who said I was unhappy?" "You are. Let us not belabor the point. You want greatly to be an originator, an innovator, a creative thinker, which, in fact, you must be. My kind of assignment, you know." Peter shook his head. "Are you telling me that you've been assigned to visit me to discuss my creativeness?" "Approximately that, yes." "Who assigned you?" Carreford gestured vaguely. "Well, um, the Committee, shall we say?" "Say it if you wish. You're a preposterous hallucination. Who's on the Committee?" "Different people, different people. Albert, of course, and Niels, Sir Humphrey. Some others. Lucifer is the permanent chairman." "Lucifer! You're an emissary from the devil?" ' I cigarette holder waggled in a manner suggesting annoyance, and left a zigzag of orange light in its wake. "Now, please, young man, let's not fall into that ancient error. Lucifer is the light bearer and was once an angel of excellent character. He fell, however, from heaven as a result of certain misdemeanors. Someday these will be expunged from the books, but in the long meanwhile he mittees. "I thought Lucifer was one of the names of Satan." "There is considerable confusion in the literature, I must admit. Let us consider him, notwithstanding, as a bearer of light. On this brief errand, my visit to you, such is assuredly my mission. To bear some enlightenment, that is. Now, young Dr. Coghill, I ask you, what is your attitude toward a mistake? Do you regard it as a challenge?" "What do you mean?" Dr. Carreford wreathed himself in silvery smoke. His cigarette had grown no shorter and now appeared to be a super king size. "I'll explain. I do in fact know something of your history. Early in your career you detected an error on the part of one Professor Metz. Metz, as I recall, had the manners of an ill-natured peacock, but he was an able scientist and he didn't deserve what you did to him." "But he was wrong." '"Of course he was wrong. But if you and he together had reviewed discrepancies between your findings, a more significant conclusion would have been reached. Why is # blue -- those few micrograms you swallowed?" "Probably contaminated. What's that got to do with anything?" "I've no notion," Carreford said. "It may be quite unimportant. But once upon a time somebody found some blue specks in a batch of phthalic anhydride, and a new dye industry was born. When you saw that blue color you were startled. You said, I believe, why the hell?' Now you dismiss it as an unknown contaminant. Um. Let us get back to the matter of mistakes." Peter grimaced. "I wish I could stop finding them." "You never will," Carreford told him. "You never will. You have a quick eye and a keen analytical sense. But you must never again turn a mistake to anybody's disadvantage. That's the easy part of my advice. But mark this welll What may at first seem a mistake may prove, if one is lucky, to be a wild fact." "A what?" "A wild fact. The point that lies off the curve, the analysis that adds to a hundred and five percent, the bacterial broth that unexplainably begins to foam, the hint of an odor where there should be none. Faced with what is difficult to explain. no IF you, my young friend, are given to deducing a mistake, and you may often be right. But make that deduction as a last resort, if you please. Hold the belief, for a time anyway, that your odd datum may be right, even if that requires you to sacrifice some things you know and dierish. Examine your wild facts forward and backward, upside down and inside out, and one of these days you'll be known as an original thinker." "Is that how you did it?" Peter Coghill inquired. arreford grinned and looked  alarmingly satanic for a moment. "So now you ask the old phantasm how he, as Hugo Carreford, achieved success. Well, there are a variety of approaches to recognition, but those of us who possess creativity -- I include both of us, naturally -- seem to display the trait at an early age. You, for example, are reported to have built a seismograph of sorts before you'd ever heard of such an instrument, and succeeded in detecting trucks as they passed a block away." "Aha," said Peter, "oho. That proves it. You're a figment of my imagination, otherwise you coiddn't remember what I've almost forgotten. On the other hand -- " Peter held up his left hand and regarded it surprisedly, since it appeared to be backward. " -- on the other hand, you're giving me some good advice -- well anyway, advice -- which strongly suggests that you want something from me in return. So-o-o-o." The sound of the last word pleased him and he continued it for some time until the air was quite full of little round O's. "So?" Carreford prompted. "So you must be an emissary of the devil." "Lucifer, as I told you." "Lucifer, the devil, Satan, Beelzebub. You're trying to buy my soul." Carreford chuckled, seeming in high good humor. "And what is your soul, my dear Dr. Coghill? As a biochemist of course you must have a theory. Would it be a ductless gland, a hormone perhaps, a peculiar sequence in a hidden helix invent a new enzyme every time you want to explain a biological event. Well, whatever your soul happens to be, I don't really want it, and neither does the Committee." "Then what do you want?" "Just to help you get back on the course of a career from which you have been straying." "For a hallucination, you've been making some statements which sound uncommonly sensible. I wonder if I'll remember it later. Wait." He seized his pen and wrote in an ungainly scrawl. When he looked up Dr. Carreford had become rather dim. "I can so," said Peter suddenly. "Can what?" "See through you. No detail, but I can see the doorknob about where your liver should be." "Ah, yes. I'm about to depart and this is the easiest way. I am, at the moment, attending a conference on education in Rome and I should be getting back. Somebody might say something intelligent, you know. Concerning my advice. If you decide to act on it, you may -- just possibly -- incur a slight obligation. Nothing to do with souls." "Then what?" Peter asked. "You might be asked to go on an errand someday. An errand similar to this. Nothing arduous, but you do get into some of the damnedest conversations. One last word. Don't mix pepper with drugs likely to have a central nervous system effect. Capsicum is frequently synergistic." TTith that the figure dimmed   still further until it was barely visible, then it disappeared with a small popping sound. After a minute Peter rose and prowled the laboratory, navigating now without difficulty. Feeling foolish, he waved his arm through the air over the lab stool. Naturally there was nothing, nothing beyond a faint unfamiliar fragrance of Turkish tobacco. "Well," said Peter; then, after some thought, "Well." The clock m stood at one ten, but he had not perceived the passing of nearly an hour. To all intents and purposes then, he had been asleep, and he foimd himself stiU overpoweriny sleepy. He slumped into his chair, elevated his feet to the desk and slept dreamlessly until nearly five o'clock. The following day, with no evident aftereffects from his encounter with #, he was inclined to smile at his recollections, already becoming a little hazy. He gave a much abbreviated account to Dr. Brock. In due course, #-# was tested in mice for toxicity and in cats for behavioral effects. It proved to be quite inactive and was presently abandoned in favor of other, more promising structures. At no time during the next year did anyone become aware of any change in Dr. Coghill's character, or realize that their attitudes toward him were changing little by little. By the end of that time, however, his comments on programs were being sought out, because so often he had something helpful to suggest. Let's kick it around with Pete, became a frequent expression and his table in the cafeteria was the center of a lot of productive discussions. In later years, as we all know. Dr. Coghill accomplished much. But his first major accomplishment was in some respects one of the most interesting. It began not long after his marriage to an exceedingly good IB looking wench who thought that biochemistry was an odd way for a grown man to make a living... But she liked to cook, she liked most of his friends and she knew how to listen. They got along fine. his particular thing started one day when he'd gone into one of the animal labs to share a coffee break with Joe Polanetsky. Joe was standing before a collection of white rats, scribbling notations on a clip board. There was a score or more of the rats, each quartered in a separate cage. They were largely comatose. "Here's your coffee," said Peter. "What are you doing with those?" "They're for Doc Siever," Joe said. "For his anti-shock drug work. Once a week I've been putting a collection of rats into mild shock, then he tries to bring them out of it." "How do you do it." "Put rats into shock? Various ways. These got a series of electric shocks ranging from barely perceptible up to fairly unpleasant, along with lights and noises. Vary the timing and the sequence. After a while poor old rattus gets to the point he doesn't know what's going to happen next and he doesn't much care. He turns pale, ceases to wiggle his whiskers and so on." "What about number five?" Peter asked. "That one. He looks pretty frisky. Held out as a control?" "Nope. He's had the treatment, too. Sometimes you get rats that don't give up. At least they don't go into shock in up to twice the usual period." Peter went over and watched number five thoughtfully. "Mind if I tickle him?" Joe looked severe. "If you enjoy tickling rats, you may. I don't know what Freud would have made of it." Peter lifted the lid and prodded number five with a cautious forefinger. Number five looked interested. "Would Siever let me have him, do you think?" "He's no use to Siever. I'll put him back in stock, marked for you. What do you want to do with him?" "I don't know. Do these resistant rats come in both sexes?" "Never noticed." "How many do you get?" "One in a couple hundred, maybe." "Save me some more, will you?" "Sure enough." polanetsky called him on the phone a month or so later. "I've got six. Four of them are females. If you still want them, you owe me a drink." "I do," Peter said, and went to see Helen Markley, the geneticist. He still had no idea what he was going to do with them, but he wanted to know the pattern of inheritability of the resistance. WhUe Helen was finding this out -- purely as a favor, since there was no official project on the books -- Peter Coghiii began to look for biochemical variations in his rats and Polanetsky bootlegged some behavioral studies. These were interesting. The rats which resisted shock also learned mazes more rapidly than their fellows and took longer to forget them. By choice they ate a little more heavily and, in the jiggle cages, showed higher than normal activity. Peter took to carrying one of them in his side coat pocket, and several times carried him home. Let it be said for Susan Coghill that, after some initial reservation, she became quite fond of one exceptionally intelligent rat called Hugo. The search for biochemical variations proved, however, to present difficulties. The Coventry management tolerated, and to a degree encouraged, research bootlegging, but they had about reached the point of clamping down on any further work on shock-resistant rats, when Peter received from Anal#d;ical Department this note, still unofficial and correspondingly informal: 'We reanalyzed the nerve fibre extract. The second cut was trimethyl hydroxyethylphosphonium chloride. Elemental analysis is damn near on the nose. Confirmed by titration and IR. If you want an blessing." Carried by Peter to the Director's office, this brief report had immediate impact, and before the end of the working day he had received his topside blessing, an allocation of funds and two new assistants. Susan heard him banging around in the kitchen. "What's up?" she called. "Hugo and I are going to have a martini," he shouted back, then added generously, "You may have one, too." "Well, thanks. Did you get a raise?" "No, nothing like that. This is important." Tt must be recorded that Hugo did not like his first taste of martini. Deplorable, but one can't expect too much of a rat. "OK," Susan said presently. "Settle down and tell me about it. Easy words only, remember." "Very good," said Peter. "First of all, you recall that Hugo and a few of his cousins are very superior rats." "How could I forget it?" "Right. And we're beginning -- Helen Markley is -- to be able to breed this quality into them. But we hadn't found out why they were the way they are. Not until today. Not until today. We had dissected out some nerve fibres and analyzed them six ways from Sunday, but we kept missing it. IP 'So-#. In our nerves -- yours and mine -- there's a material called acetylcholine. It can come apart and go together again very rapidly like an on-off switch and this effect causes impulses to travel along the nerve. Okay? Well, choline consists of a centrd nitrogen atom with three methyl groups and a hydroxcthyl group attached to it." Hvdroxethyl group. Sort of like dcohol?" 'Sort ot. i:jo our nerves contain this choline and so do rats' nerves, including Hugo's. Only, as we found out today, his contain something else, too, in a very small quantity. It's a central atom of phosphorus with three methyl and one hydroxethyl group attached. You see? The same thing except for the central atom." 'T guess I see." "Of course you do. The molecules aren't exactly the same shape, but they should have the same function in the body, almost certainly." "And this is important? Is this why we're having martinis?" "Right. Heres the rest of the picture. Hugo is smarter and healthier and has a finer moral character than other rats. Haven't you, Hugo? Somewhere among the branches of his family tree he learned to synthesize this phosphorous compound and how to use it, along with choline, to carry nerve impulses. Presumably it's a little more efficient than choline, and this accounts for his smartness although there isn't yet any solid evidence for that presumption. I'm making an inference. Right? "So okay. Humans, at least so far as we know, haven't learned to synthesize this compound. Question: If we provide it, say by injection, can human nerves learn how to use it? Will it increase human abilities to resist shock and to think better and to find our way through our own frightening mazes? This is speculation, of course. LrOts of work still to be done. In the meanwhile you had better not mention it." "Mention it?" said Susan. "I can't even remember it." 'his, then, was only the first of a number of important developments in medicine which are credited to Dr. Coghill. You must have seen his picture in Time quite recently, when he was given another honorary doctorate in California. He travels a good deal these days and makes a lot of important speeches. Not long ago Peter and Susan were in Paris, he to attend an international conference, she to pick up a few dresses. Late one afternoon they came back to their hotel and who should Peter see but Dr. Hugo Carreford sitting in the lounge with the American ambassador. Here is music composed on computer and transducers, ranging from computer-played versions of Cbristmas carols and rounds to the complex sounds that offer a new dimension in musicology. Composers indude Dr. John R. Pierce, Dr. M. V. Mathews, David Lewin, James Tenny, etc, etc. # selections on a #-inch, high-fidelity, long-playing record produced by Decca. A "must" for your record library and a conversation piece for all occasions. Priced # postpaid -- send in the coupon today. I Galaxy Publishing Corp. # #I Hudson Street,  New York City # I Yes, send me my #-inch hi-fi  record of Music from Mathematics I right away. I enclose check or I money order of #. I Nome  Address I Gty  State Zip Code .   .  (Offer good in U, S, A, Only) "Let's walk over this way," he said to Susan. That's Dr. Carreford over there, and I'd like to get a good look at him." They would have walked past, looking as casual as possible, except that Carreford rose and waved his cigarette holder in greeting. "Peter," he called, "Peter Coghill. So good to see you again. Ambassador, I'd like you to meet Dr. CoghiU and -- I presume -- Mrs. Coghill. How nice that you could come along to Paris." Peter shook hands numbly and, unable to find words, said nothing. Dr. Carreford filled the gap. "This young man. Ambassador, is the fellow who fathered the drug that stimidates learning and has turned our whole academic world topsy turvy. He also has the distinction, if you can call it that, of having a strain of white rats named after him "I do trust, Peter, that you have not been mixing pepper with any of your experimental products. Capsicum, you know, has some odd synergistic effects. Don't look so baffled, Mrs. Coghill. Just a private joke of ours." That was four months ago, and Peter Coghill hasn't heard a word from the Committee. OO IF An Interview with T must have started writing sdence fiction in #, or thereabouts. A little bit earlier IM read Mark Twain's Connecticut Yankee and been thrilled by it and tried to write a sort of imitation of it called The Castle of the Seven Gates. I used up all my material ,on the first page. ! . When Hugo Gernsback's Amazing Stories came out, which was in #, this was exciting to me. Earlier I'd thought about science, hoped to be a scientist, saw no real opportunity; but at least I was interested in science. And when I discovered science fiction, why here was something I could do about it, I suppose. I started writing science-fiction stories in my spare time, sending those I could finish to Gernsback. And in '# he published one of them, called The Metal Man, After I'd been writing for a while I got acquainted with Edmond Hamilton through Jerry Siegel, the inventor of Superman, who'd been corresponding with Ed and with me. I met Ed for the first time in a hotel in St. Paul, Minnesota. We had originally planned to buy a houseboat and drift down the Mississippi River. The houseboat idea didn't work out, so we got an outboard motorboat and went down the river, camping on the banks the first part of the trip, then later night. Finally, when the outboard motor wore out, we sold the boat and went on down the river on the Tennessee Belle, which was one of the last of the old riverboats. The trip on that was something like a chapter out of Mark Twain's Life on the Mississippi. Ed and  talked about science fiction, and the captains on the boat talked about old days on the river. Mostly IVe never done anything else but write science fiction. I was on Air Force weatherman for about three years, # to #; and lately, for the last dozen years, IVe been edging back into the academic field. In my Army service, when I went to Fort Bliss for induction, and got shipped to Chanute Field, I had three choices of what I wanted to do when I got in. I put down first "glider pilot" -- thank tte Lord I didnt bome a glider pilot! -- and second "intelligence" and third "weather". I got to be a weatherman. I was very happy about it. I spent eleven weeks at Chanute Field learning to be a weather observer, and six months in the field practicing weather observation -- that is, taking observations, plottingaps and so forth -- and went back to forecasting school at Chanute Field for twenty-two weeks. I came out as a weather forecaster and spent fifteen months at Hobbs, New Mexico forecasting the weather for a four-engine pilot training school flying B-#s. Finally, in #, I went overseas to the Southwest Pacific and briefly had a try at forecasting tropical weather for the Marine air groups that were heckling the Japanese in the Northern Solomons. I had started out to become a chemist. But when I got into chemistry, it began to look like sort of drudgery. Physics turned out to be far more interesting. I suHose if I could have been a scientist, I should have liked to be a theoretical physicist, or an astronomer. I'm still very much interested in such branches of science. I had dropped out of college after three years. I entered college first in #; and I got my bachelor's and master's degrees in # -- after a lapse of # years, I believe it is. I got my Ph.D. in #. Since # I've been teaching English at Eastern New Mexico University, and I've been writing science fiction in the summers, since I finished my doctoral dissertation. That was: H. G, Wells: A Critical Progress, my idea being that there is an unfair stereotype of Wells as a sort of materialistic Utopian who believed that machinery and science and progress could solve all our problems. My thesis in this is that Wells had been apprehensive about change from the beginning, afraid of what was going to happen, and that in much of his life -- when he was writing The OMtline of History and The Science of Life and his work on economics -- he was trying to educate the human race, to make them fit citizens for a World State that he hoped might be the salvation of the race. I think in his latter years he became pessimistic about his education effort -- and about IF anybody saving the human race. He was -- well, a great man, I think; and the real father of modern science fiction. Most of modern science fiction has been written in patterns that Wells pioneered. In modern science fiction, the big names that occur to me are Heinlein and Arthur Clarke -- and Ray Bradbury, I suppose; it's debatable whether he writes science fiction, but he writes literature. Heinlein and Clarke are two people I like to name because they can see good things happening in the future because science can be used to solve problems and make the world, possibly, better. There are only a few writers you can think of who take this point of view. Most of the best modern science fiction belongs to the dystopian and anti-Utopian school, the school of the early Wells, and Huxley's Brave N ew W orld and Orwell's #. They see nothing good coming out of progress; even if science solves our problems, it destroys us in the process. At the university, I used to teach a course in writing the short story. Now I have a course in science fiction that is about half appreciation and half writing; most of the students are interested in writing science fiction, and I let them write either critical papers or sciencefiction stories. Some of them have been writing some excellent stories; I've been thinking I might publish a class magazine this semester. Among the new science-fiction writers, I was very much taken with Delany's The Einstein Intersection -- written in a dazzling style; a wonderful story with a flavor of its own. Half of the way it reads like fantasy, but it has. a disturbing amount of reality in it, also. It's something new and exciting. I haven't read too much of Ballard. But his story. The Drowned Giant, strikes me as a classic. It has a sort of mythological impact to me. Of course, I'm generally a little cool toward the "New Wave". As I understand the New Wave, what it does is essentially to throw out the tested ideas of plot and characterization in favor of radical experiments in language, style and presentation, and most of the socalled "New Wave" things leave me cold. But when you have something like The Einstein Intersection, that has believable characters and interesting action, why, it's wonderful. In the forty or so years I've been writing science fiction, I suppose many writers have influenced me. In the beginning I was a tremendous admirer of A. Merritt. In a way, I still am. But I've recently been looking at some of the old stories that I wrote under Merritt's influence, and they seem to me too flowery, with too many adjectives and too much elaboration of style. What I try to do nowadays is something leaner and simpler. The influences have been too numerous to mention, I suppose. Now I like the way Hemingway writes. There was a writer named C. E. Scoggins, who used to write for the Saturday Evening Post, whose style and way of construction I admired, and attempted to imitate when I was becoming Will Stewart for John Campbell dining the war, when he wanted a new name on the contents page of Astounding. Science-fiction writers are pretty much the same as when I first got started, nearly # years ago. They're vocal, they're full of ideas that are challenging and interesting to me. They don't agree on anything, and they're likely to disagree explosively. It seems to me that the New Wave writers are a little more pessimistic or soured on the world. It's possible that more writers were more optimistic about the future thirty years ago than they are now; more of them felt that science would do us good, and not so many were convinced that science would do us harm. But they weren't all rosy optimists even then. Wells was pretty pessimistic about the possible futures. When I was in England, I looked for Wells' country. London has since sprawled out over all of the War of the Worlds territory, so it wasn't like WeDs had described it. But I got a thrfll out of seeing familiar names on street intersections and so forth. What was countryside when the Martians came is now built up with modern housing. On that trip, my wife and I flew to Spain, spent a week in Madrid, crossed North Africa to Egypt; we were there for five days, seeing the Pyramids, et cetera. Then we came back through Athens and made some tours to the Greek islands; a few days in Italy, then up across Europe to England. When we were making this part of the trip it was fascinating to me to see the evidences of how civilization was born in the Near East and spread across Europe. Then, from England, we spent a couple of weeks on a guided tour to Russia. Russia had a sort of science-fictional interest of its own, in that it is a society very much like ous Western society, but based on slightly different assumptions -- the assumption that Marx was right. This gave it a kind of familiarity with a difference that was poignant, partly because the Russian cities -- with the trees in the streets and the absence of motorcars -- had a sort of nineteenth-century aspect. So Russia was exciting and a lot of fun; and then we came back to London in time for a science-fiction convention, which sort of finished this tour of the past to the future that began with the Pyramids. IF IF  Short Story Some tourists will buy anything ! police Sergeant Herbert Slocombe was strolling leisurely down Maxcombe Parva High Street. He was an imposing figure this Police Sergeant Herbert Slocombe -- tall, perhaps huge is more the word, with a waistline that laughed mockingly at diet sheets, and a pair of feet to put the Queen Mary to shame. Police modernization had spread to most parts of the country, where patrol cars, personal walkietalkies, helicopters and mobile headquarters were no longer new terms, but progress is slow in some parts of the country, and nowhere more so than in Maxcombe Parva. Here at night Police Sergeant Slocombe still ambled slowly along his beat on his size thirteens, able and ready to deal with all the terrors that the world of crime was prepared to throw at him, normally consisting on an average week of half a dozen traffic offenses, an occasional break-in, young boys stealing apples, and poaching. And poaching. And poaching. The local poacher was Geoffrey Rye. And he was a poacher par excellence, a poacher whose sheer uncanny ability left everyone else in the shade. He could sniff rabbits miles off, and he knocked down pheasants by the score -- silently -- with an old crossbow he had made himself. Everyone knew this happened. But could they catch him? Not on your life. Once in a while, to be sure, Geoff would accidentally round a corner too fast on his old bike and run straight into some arm of the law, too unexpectedly to get rid of the sack full of dead stock over his shoulder. There would be a fine, perhaps a couple of months in jail, but he was soon back to take up where he left off. He was no criminal, no member of the underworld, just someone who couldn't see quite eye to eye with the local gamekeepers, and who happened to like rabbit pie. In the summer months, the situation got a bit different, for Geoff rather tended to fancy himself as a bit of a con man. This part of the West Country was Toiurist Country, and large portly foreigners in enormous befinned cars, festooned with ultra-modern cameras and other wondrous gadgets, (descended on Maxcombe Parva and the near area, determined to drink in the beauty of the English countryside. And Geoff loved it. Originally he had simply hung arotmd the local pub, told fascinated tourists at great length and in great detail some of the more lurid if more imaginative historical details of this particular area ('Ar yes, m'dear, that there chair you'm sittin' on be the selfsame chair that old Charley the Second sat on to rest when we were being chased by the Roundheads.") in the hope of making out of it a couple of drinks and a smoke. Then he discovered the engaging fact that these tourists were same chair to take home with them to Connecticut, to show off to the folks. And so the idea had mushroomed. Sergeant Slocombe, being the senior police officer of the district, had smiled amiably at such goings-on, merely shaking his head sorrowfully at the seemingly endless naivete of tourists, until Geoff had started selling things that were not his to sell. This had to be stopped, and a few fines imposed by the local Bench seemed to have had a salutary effect. But only seemed. Geoff went on from strength to strength, and on one famous day he sold the entire Town Hall clock complete with tower to no less than five people on the same afternoon. And oddly enough, most of the time he got away with it. When their astonishing gullibility was pointed out to them, the tourists were so appalled with themselves that they left the district immediately without ever bothering to press charges. So Geoff prospered, relatively speaking. Once in a blue moon, he made a fortune from some enterprising idiot, but it all got spent at once, or else an enormous great fine took most of it off him, so he was reduced to poaching again, come winter. His relations with the law were friendly, almost neighborly. No one bothered anyone much. IF They remained the best of enemies. B ut on this day in question, Sergeant Slocombe was puzzled. A sort of miniature crime wave seemed to have hit the sleepy village, and he was determined to find out the cause. Six cars had been reported stolen in the last three hours, which -- considering only two others had gone since the end of the war -- was an astonishing fact, to say the least. Sergeant Slocombe had nothing to go on as such, except his local knowledge. Naturally the County Police had been notified, searches and checks were being made in all the surrounding districts. But Sgt. Slocombe had ideas of his own. In a small community like Maxcombe Parva news travels fast, and someone had mentioned to him only a few minutes ago that Geoff Rye was in the Tup and Pistol' spending more money than he'd seen for many a long year. Geoff with a lot of money was a factor which always interested him, so Sgt. Slocombe strolled through the gnat-filled summer twilight and pushed open the door to the Public Bar of the Dog and Gun, long ago christened the Pup and Pistol by its regulars. Ther bar was full of smoke and conversation, and Sergeant Slocombe immediately made out Geoff Rye leaning against the bar, clutching a half-empty tankard in his fist, a gigantic cigar blazing like a miniature bonfire in his mouth, with an admiring crowd of locals around him listening to tho story he was telling. Sgt. Slocombe crossed over to this group, and the conversation suddenly and miraculously stopped. Geoff Rye looked at the sergeant and grinned companionably. "How do, Bert," he declared with a grin. "You drinking?" "Not on duty, Geoff, you know that," Sgt. Slocombe replied. He looked around him. "Been buying drinks for all these people, then, Geoff?" "Ar." "Very sociable of you, isn't it?" "Ar." "Come into some money, have you?" "Ar." It very much appeared that Geoff was not in the most communicative of moods, so Sergeant Slocombe took him by the elbow and said, "Come on, Geoff,! think you and I had better go and have a little talk." Geoff grinned. Then he downed the last of his pint and followed the sergeant out of the bar and into the carpark, where they both sat down together on the low stone wall and listened for a time in silence to the hum of the insects in the dying day. "o have you done this time, thei?" asked the sergeant. "I don't know what you mean." Oh, come on, Geoff," continued the sergeant, cheerfully enough. We've both known each other for years. If you suddenly produce a fat wad of notes, we all know you didn't dig it up in your back garden. Who have you done?" 'I'm not saying a word," Geoff replied, idly drawing a pattern with his shoe in the gravel of the carpark. Look, Geoff, you know as well as I do that I can't do anything unless someone makes a formal charge, so you needn't worry. We've both got pretty well the same opinion of the tourists, so why don't you tell me? If they do make a charge, you've had it anyway." 'Why are you so interested?" asked Geoff, eyeing him shrewdly in the twilight. Qgt. Slocombe shrugged. There  are circumstances," he announced rather officially, about this particular case that are a little unusual." 'Which ones?" 'T'll tell you in a minute. Now who did you do?" Geoff shrugged. 'T don't see as how it'll matter to tell you, Bert," he said casually. Though I don't think this one will complain. He seemed too satisfied." "Who was he?" asked the sergeant. "Anyone you've seen before? American? European?" "Oh, I don't know who the fellow was, "Geoff replied, spreading his hands and hunching his shoulders in a massive shrug. "He spoke English well enough, but with a bit of an accent. He was one of them foreigners all right, but I couldn't tell you where from." "All right then, what did you sell him? The Town Hall clock again?" Geoff grinned. "No, Bert, that's old stuff. This chap would've bought anything." He drew closer to the sergeant and winked conspiratorially. "Personally I'm of the opinion he was drunk." "Why?" "He'd have to have been drunk to take what I gave him." Sergeant Slocombe sighed. "And just what was that, Geoff?" he asked heavily. "Well, he said he wanted souvenirs, right? But he acted as if everything was strange to him -- everything, cars, clothes, furniture, the lot. I don't know what country he came from, but they couldn't have had very much. Except money. He said the cars were fascinating, so I sold him six." Six? Mentally Sgt. Slocombe sat up. "And he couldn't get over our funny clothes, as he called them, so I said he could have his pick of the ones in John White's shop, and the furniture in Martin's, and... oh I don't know. I was enjoying myself too much to remember what I IF said. But he wrote it all down in a little book, and seemed very excited. Kept telling me how generous we were, to sell all these things to a visitor." Geoff sniggered. Don't know how he thought he was going to collect them." Sergeant Slocombe was feeling unaccountably worried. Geoff," he sud slowly, that's what I came to see you about. Six cars disappeared today. I don't know about the rest." He had a strange premonition that back at the police station they would at this moment be at White's and Martin's and elsewhere. Geoff's grin had disappeared like magic. But he canH have," he said. 'How do you take away six cars? It must be coincidence." Tossibly." Slocombe got to his feet. 'But I think we ought to see this foreign fellow, whoever he is. Do you know where he's staying?" Geoff shook his head. No," he said. He said he was leaving almost at once. Said he landed over there, past Druid's Wood. I kept thinking he might be some Arab sheik or something, didn't know cars or that, lots of money, and he was all dark and suntanned. I thought he probably meant he had his own private helicopter, perhaps." He stopped, worried. "Let's go and see," said Sergeant Slocombe. We might get a clue or something." 'hey drove in Sergeant Slo combe's car to as near as they were able to Druid's Wood, then continued on foot. The wood in fact was a sort of circle of trees; there had always been a great cleared space in the very center, and it was towards this that they walked. When they stepped out of the surrounding trees, they both stopped in silent astonishment and indeed some fear. All the vegetation, the grass, the bushes, the shrubs, in this clearing to a diameter of a hundred yards or more was squashed flat as if by some gigantic weight, the grass around this perimeter blown outwards around the huge circle as if by a hurricanestrength wind. The trees on the edge of the clearing were shredded of leaves, and the bark facing it had been peeled in places, and lay in thin wafers on the ground. Blimey I" murmured Geoff Rye. "That would have to have been a bigger helicopter than you or I have ever seen," commented SerDO WRim Do you write short stories, poetry, articles, books and plays? And do you wish to place, sell them? Then mail your manuscripts promptly for quest full particulars. It will be nice to have you with us. # B'way (DeptFC-#)  N.Y. # geant Slocombe, scared despite himself. " Something enormous has landed here and taken off again. I don't know who your man was that you thought you'd swindled, but it looks very much as if he's collected, and he has the machinery to do it with." He turned round, to see Geoff as pale as death, his eyes staring in a kind of horror. 'What is the matter?" he snapped, urgently now. "Do you think he'll collect?" whimpered Geoff almost soundlessly"He already has done." Geoff sank to the floor, moaning softly. "I thought he was mad, Sarge, really," he said. Slocombe grabbed him by the shirtfront with more force than he had used on anyone in years and hauled him to his feet. "What did you do?" he hissed fiercely. "He said our way of government was so archy... what's the word, means old?" "Archaic?" Yes. Said it fascinated him." "So?" "So, I think I got carried away. I said he could have it. For five himdred pounds I threw in LonI I I i I I I I I I This Month in Galaxy Witch Hunt by James E. Gunn Bncketis of Diamondis by Clifford D. Simak (Winner of ihe # # Galaxy Award) And Xow They Wake by Keith Laumer I  i I i April Galaxy on sale now -- at your favorite newsstand today !  IF  Novelette aumer I C"T"wenty thousand years ago," said Cultural Attache Pennyfool, "this, unless I miss my guess, was the capital city of a thriving alien culture." The half dozen Terrans -- members of a Field Expeditionary Group of the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne -- stood in the crater of a narrow strip of turquoisecolor sward that wound between weathered slabs of porous, orange masonry, rusting spires of twisted metal to which a few bits of colored tile still clung, and anonymous mounds in which wildflowers nodded alien petals under the light of a swollen orange sun. "Imagine," Consul Magnan said in an awed tone, as the party strolled on through a crumbling arcade and across a sand-drifted square. "At a time when we were still living in caves, these creatures had already developed automats and traffic jams." He sighed. "And now they're utterly extinct. The survey's life detectors didn't so much as quiver." "They seem to have progressed from neon to nuclear annihilation in record time." Second Secretary Retief commented, "But I think we have a good chance of bettering their track record." "Think of it, gentlemen," Pennyfool called, pausing at the base of a capless pylon and rubbing his hamds together with a sound like a cicada grooming its wing-cases. "An entire city in pristine condition -- nay, more, a whole continent, a complete planet I It's an archeologist's dream come true I Picture the treasures to be found: the stone axes and telly sets, the implements of bone and plastic, the artifacts of home, school and office, the tin cans, the beer bottles, the bones -- oh, my, the bones, gentlemen I Emerging into the light of day after all these centuries to tell us their tales of the life and demise of a culture #" "If they've been dead for twenty thousand years, what's the point in digging around in their garbage dumps?" an assistant Military Attache inquired sotto voce, "I say Corps funds would be better spent running a little nose-to-ground reconnaissance of Boge, or keeping an eye on the Groaci." "Tsk, Major," Magnan said. "Such comments merely serve to reinforce the popular stereotq)e of the crassness of the military mind." "What's so crass about keeping abreast of the opposition?" the officer protested. "It might be a nice change if we hit them first, for once, instead of getting clobbered on the ground." "Sirl" Magnan tugged at the iridium-braided lapels of his Hvercolored informal field coverall. "Would you fly in the face of six hundred years of tradition?" "Now, gentlemen," Pennyfool was saying, "we're not here to carry out a full-scale dig, of course, merely to conduct a preliminary survey. But I see no reason why we should not wet a line, so to speak. Magnan, suppose you just take one of these spades and we'll poke about a bit. But carefully, mind you. We wouldn't want to damage an irreplacable art treasure." "Heavens, I'd love to," Magnan said as his superior offered him the shovel. "What perfectly vile luck IF that I happen to have a rare joint condition known as Motormans Arm -- " "A diplomat who cant bend his elbow?" the other replied briskly. "Nonsense." He thrust the implement at Magnan. #utrageous," the latter muttered as his superior moved out of earshot, scanning the area for a likely spot to commence. "I thought I was volunteering for a relaxing junket, not being dragooned to serve as a navvy." "Your experience in digging through Central Files should serve you in good stead, Mr. Magnan," Second Secretary Retief said. "Let's just pretend we're after evidence of a political prediction that didn't pan out by someone just above you on the promotion list." "I resent the implication that I would stoop to such tactics," Magnan said loftily. "In any case, only an idiot would go on record with guesswork." He eyed Retief obliquely. "I,, ah, don't suppose you know of any such idiot?" "I did," Retief said. "But he just made Ambassador." "Aha!" Penny fool caroled from a heavily silted doorway flanked by a pair of glassless openings. "A wellnigh intact structure, quite possibly a museum. Suppose we just take a peek." The diplomats trailed their enthusiastic leader as he scrambled through into a roofless chamber with an uneven, dirt-drifted floor and bare walls from which the plaster had long since disappeared. Along one side of the room a flattopped ridge projected a foot above the ground. Pennyfool poked a finger at a small mound atop it, exposing a lumpy object. "Eureka!" he cried, brushing dirt away from his find. "You see, gentlemen? I've already turned up a masterpiece of the Late Meretricious!" "I say, sir," a plump Third Secretary addressed the expedition's leader. "Since Verdigris is a virgin world, and we're the first beings to set foot here since its discovery, how does it happen the era already has a name?" "Simple, my boy," Pennyfool snapped. "I just named it." "Look here, sir," an eager information Agency man who had been poking at the find said, "I think there's been an error. This place isn't a museum, its a lunch counter. And the masterpiece is a plate of petrified mashed potatoes and mummified peas." "By jove, I think you've got something there. Quagmire," a portly Admin Officer said. "Looks just like the stuff they served at the Testimonial Dinner for Ambassador Clawhammer -- " "He's right," Magnan announced from his position farther down the line. "Here's a side-order of french fries." IF "Dunderheads I " Pennyfool snaped. "I'm not in need of uninformed conjectures by amateurs in order to properly classify priceless antiquities. Kindly leave such matters to experts. Now come along. There seems to be an adjoining room with an intact roof -- a room unvisited for twenty centuries I I'll wager my fig-leaf cluster to my Grand Cordon of the Legion d' awaits us there!" His staff followed him past the edge of a metal door standing half open, into a dark chamber. The next moment, pale yellowish light flooded the room. "To stop where you are! " A weak voice hissed the words in a breathy .alien tongue from behind the delegation. "To raise your digital members above your cephalic nodules or to be incinerated on the spot!" II A spindle-legged creature in a flaring helmet and sequinned greaves emerged from the deep shadow of the door, aiming a scatter gun carelessly at Magnan's knees. "What's this?" Pennyfool's voice cracked on the words. "Groaci? Here?" "Indeed, Soft One," the alien confirmed. "To comply at once with my instructions or to add your osseous components to those already interred here!" Other gun-toting creatures appeared from alcoves and behind columns, closed in, clacking horny mandibles threateningly. "See here. Captain," Pennyfool said in a high nervous voice to a larger than average Groaci in jeweled eye-shields who carried no weapon but an ornamental side arm. "What's the meaning of this unwarranted interference with a peaceful party of duly authorized official personnel of the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne?" "The meaning, Mr. Pennyfool," the officer replied in accent-free Terran, "is that you are anticipated, forestalled, preceded." He casually waved a dope-stick in a foot-long ivory holder. "You are interlopers, trespassers on Groacian real estate. You note that out of delicacy I refrain from use of the term 'invaders.' " "Invaders? We're scientists! Artlovers! And -- " "To be sure," the captain cut him off curtly. "However, it will be necessary for you to indulge these fancies elsewhere. Verdigris, as an unoccupied planet, has been claimed by my government. Unfortunately, we are at present unable to issue tourist visas to the curious. You will therefore repair at once to your vessel, pay the accumulated landing fees, demurrage, fines for illegal xarking and lifttax and be on your way." "This is an outrage, you fiveeyed bandit #" the assistant military attiuiie yelled, thrusting to the fore. "This planet was discovered by a Corps scouting vessel! It belongs to usl" "I shall overlook your tone, Major the Groad whispered acidly, "induced no doubt by envy at my racers superior (tical endowments and simply inquire whether any Terran daim to tie world was ever registered with the appropriate tribunals?" "Of course not," Pennyfool snapped. "We didn't want every claim-jumping Tom, Dick and Irving in this end of the Arm swarming in here to see what they could loot!" "An unfortunate oversight." "But the Survey boat planted a claim beacon. You must have seen it." "Dear me, now that you mention it I seem to recall my chaps vaporizing some sort of electronic noise-maker which was interfering with radio reception. Too bad that not a trace remains." "That's a gross violation of Interplanetary Rules!" "So? Possession is nine points of the law, Mr. Pennyfool. But enough of these pleasantries; at the moment, the matter of accounts receivable requires our attention. I'm sure you're eager to clear up the trifling indebtedness and be about your no doubt legitimate activities dsewhere." "How... how much," Pennyfool asked, "is this going to cost us?" "If one of you will hand over twenty-two thousand six hundred and four galactic credits -- cash, no checks, please -- you can be on your way." 'wenty-two thousand!" Penny fool choked on the words. "That's highway robbery!" "Plus an additional thousand penalty fee for each insult," the captain added in an ominous whisper. "And of course I need not remind you that the demurrage charges are piling up minute by minute." "That's out of the question," Pennyfool gasped. "I have no such amount in my possession! We're a scientific expedition, not a party of bank messengers!" "Too bad," the captain whispered. "In that case..." He made a curt gesture; ariried troops stepped forward, guns at the ready. "Stop!" Magnan yelped. "You can't just shoot diplomats down in cold blood!" "Since higher organisms sudi as myself employ no vascular fluids, I am under no such restraint," the captain pointed out. "However, I agree it would be less than couth to fail to observe the forms. Accordingly, I shall refer the matter to my chici." He murmured a word to a soldier, who slung his weapon and hurried away. The captain saunterm IF ed off, humimng a gay little tune to himself. "Verdigris was supposed to be the best-kept secret of the year," Pennyfool muttered brokenly to Magnan, "Who would have dreamed the Groaci would be here ahead of us?" "They couldn't have found it by accident," the Information Agency man said glumly. "Coincidences like that don't happen." "You're right, Crouchwell," Penny fool said, staring around at his staff. "Gentlemen -- somebody leaked I " "Well, gracious, don't look at me, sir," Magnan said, an indignant expression pinching his narrow features. "# hardly breathed a word, except to a few highly respected colleagues." "Colleagues?" Peimyfool raised a pale eyebrow. "Fellow diplomats; high-type chaps like Ambassador P'Yim-Yim of Yill and Slunk the Fustian Minister, and... and..." 'And?" Penny fool prompted. "And Consul-General Shilth," Magnan finished weakly. "Planetary Director Shilth, if you don't mind," a voice susurrated from the doorway. 'here was a stir among the troops ringing in the Terrans. A tall Groaci in an elaborately ribbed hip-cloak strolled forward, waved jauntily at Magnan, nodded to Pennyfool. "Well, gentlemen, good of you to pay a courtesy call," he said smoothly. "Consul-General Shilth," Magnan said in a hurt tone. "I never dreamed you'd be so uncouth as to betray a confidence." Shilth frowned, an expression he achieved by crossing two pairs of eyes. "No?" he said in a surprised tone. "Why not?" He vibrat his throat sac in a manner analogous to throat-clearing. "By the way, Pennyfool, just what was it you expected to find here?" His whisper was elaborately casual. "You're standing in the center of a treasure house," Pennyfool said sourly, "and you have the confounded gall to ask me that?" "My chaps have devoted the better part of the past ten hours to fruitless scrabbling in these ruins," Shilth hissed. "They've turned up nothing of the remotest utility." "You've allowed your troops to dig here at random?" Pennyfool yelped. "Ahal" Shilth wagged an accusatory tentacle. "In spite f your subtle dissembling, your reaction proves that treasures do indeed lie beneath this wilderness." His tone became crisp. "Kindly icify precisely what it is we're looking for, and I might -- might mind you -- find a way to reduce your port fees." "You... you assassin I" Pennyfool yelled. "You have no right to so much as set foot on this hallowed ground!" 'Still -- I am here," Shilth said blandly. "And I see nothing in interest." He stirred a heap of potsherds, bottle caps and broken phonograph records with a horny foot. "Ergo, there must be a subtler prize awaiting the lucky finder." "Shilth, you Vandal I" Pennyfool yelped. "Have you no reverence for anything?" "Try me with gold," the Groaci said succinctly. "YouVe out of your mind, you Philistine! IVe told you I don't have amy cash on hand!" "You refuse to speak?" Shilth turned to the attain. "Thish, I tire of the Soft One's lies and his insults. Take him out and execute him." Penny fool squealed as the guards laid hold of him. CFrxecute him?" Magnan bleated. "Couldn't you just strike him off the invitation list for cocktail parties or something?" "If it's gold you're interested in," Sector HQ will come through with a tidy sum in return for Mr. Pennyfool's hide, unbroken." "Splendid notion," a member from the Commercial Section piped up. "I'm sure the ransom money -- tt is to say, the port fees -- will be forthcoming the minute they see us all bax:k to Sector HQ." "Indeed?" Shilth said in a bored tone. "And if I allowed you to depart, what surety would I then have that the just indemnities will be paid?" "You have the word of a diplomat," Magnan said promptly. "I admire your coolness, Magnan," Shilth said with a little bow, "essaying jests at such a moment." "I suppose I might consent to go alone," Pennyfool said, blinking his eyes rapidly. "Although of course I'd prefer to stay on as hostage myself, my rank will undoubtedly be helpful in expediting payment." "One may go," Shilth said in a pointed at Relief. Thish stepped forward, pointing his over-decorated hand-gun at the victim. "Watch him closely. Captain," Shilth admonished. "He has a reputation as a trouble-maker. As well have him off our hands." As Thish, close beside Relief, waved the gun toward the entrance, Relief, with a swift motion, swept the weapon from the other's grip, took a step, caught Shilth by the neck and backed against the wall, the muzzle of the pistol pressed against the hostage's ventral carapace. Ill CC'ell your boys to stand fast,"  he said in a conversational tone as the Groaci official writhed IF and kicked futily, while the soldiers looked on as if paralyzed. "Mr. Pennyfool, if you're ready to board ship, I don't think Planetary Director Shilth will voice any objection." "My soldiers will shoot you down like nesting nid-fowlsl" Shilth hissed. "In which case I'd be forced to pump your thorax full of softnosed slugs," Retief said. "I've heard they penetrate the exo-skeleton and then just ricochet around inside until they lose momentum. Be interesting to find out if it's true." "I remind you, Pennyfool," Shilth cocked his oculars at the Terran, who had not moved, "my lads' scatter-guns are highly disruptive to flimsy organisms such as yourselves. Disarm your misguided colpense of a mass funeral, no less costly for lack of any identifiable remains I" "Better get moving, sir, before some bright lad gets ideas," Retief suggested. "They... we... I... " Pennyfool gasped. "By no means," Retief said soothingly. "They hold Shilth in far too high esteem to see him converted into a boiled pudding in the half shell." Cautiously, the Terrans sidled toward the door. Pennyfool went through in a scrambling leap, followed closely by his associates. "Retief," Magnan, at the rear ef the party said "How are you going to get clear? If one of them gets behind you -- " "Better get aboard, Mr. Magnan," Retief cut in "I have an idea Mr. Pennyfool won't dawdle around waiting for stragglers." "But -- but -- " "CaptainThish, perhaps you'd be kind enough to act as escort," Retief said. "Just in case any of the boys on the outside leap to conclusions." "To comply," Shilth whispered in Groaci as the officer hesitated. 'Xater, to visit this miscreant's crimes upon him in a fashion devised at leisure. Our leisure, that is." Magnan made a gobbling sound and disappeared, Thish at his heels. Shilth had stopped struggling. The Groaci soldiery stood in attitudes of alert paralysis, watching for an opening. It was ten minutes before the sound of the Corps vessel's drive rumbled briefly, faded, and was gone. "And now?" Shilth inquired. "If you contemplate a contest of endurance, I remind you that we Groaci can carry on for upward of ten standard days without so much as nictating a membrane. "Send them outside," Retief said. Shilth remonstrate, but complied. A moment later, a shrill but unmistakably human yelp sounded from beyond the door. Magnan appeared in the entry, his arms grimed by a pair of Groaci while a third held a scatter gun to his head. "They... they didn't wait," the diplomat wailed. "Release me!" Shilth hissed. "Or would you prefer to wait until after my lads have blown your superior's head off?" "Sounds like an even trade," Retief said. Magnan gasped and swallowed. "Much as I should dislike to see the Planetary Director's internal arrangements hashed in the manner you so vividly describe," Thish said from behind Magnan, "I assure you I would make the sacrifice on the interest of the Groaci national honor." "In the interest of his next promotion, he means," Shilth hissed. "What does he care if I'm diced in the process?" "O etief thrust Shilth away, tossed the gun on the floor. "If I didn't know you wanted both of us alive, I'd have called your bluff, Thish," he said. "Oh? And do I want you alive, Soft One?" Thish took aim with a borrowed rifle. T)f course you do, litter-mate of genetic inferiors!" Shilth snzped, massaging the point of his back where the gim muzzle had dug in. "At least until they divulge the secret of what they sought here I" He turned to Retief. "And now let us to business, eh?" Retief plucked a cigar from his breast pocket, puffed it alight, blew scented smoke past the alien's olfactory orifices, which cinched up tight at the aroma of Virginia leaf. "Certainly, Shilth. Who's for sale now?" "You are, my dear Terry," the Groaci said ominously. "The price of your life is a complete description of the nature and location of the riches hidden here." Retief waved the stogie at the blotched walls, the dirt-drifted corners, the broken tilework. "You are looking at them." "Ah, so we are to have the pleasure of assisting you in developing a more cooperative attitude, eh? Capital. Easy babblers are such bores." "You wouldn't dare torture us," Magnan said in squeaky tone. "Our colleagues know where we are. If we aren't returned imharmed, they'll extract a terrible vengeance!" "A sharp note to the Ambassador, no doubt," Shilth said, with an amused snap of the mandibles. "Still, there are subtler methods of persuasion than living dismemberment. Now, we Groaci are quite at home in enclosed spaces; but you Terries, it is rumored, are claustrophobes, an allegation I've often IF yearned to test. And I know just the setting in which to conduct the experiment." He gestured to Thish, who urged the two Terrans at gun point along a wide passage to a metal door. Two soldiers came forward to wrestle the heavy panel aside, exposing a tiny chamber no more than six feet on a side, windowless, unfurnished. "Gentlemen, your cell, A trifle cramped, perhaps, but well protected from excessive wind and rain, eh?" Retief and Magnan stepped inside. The two soldiers forced the heavy sliding door shut. In the total darkness, a dim spot of light glowed on one wall. Retief reached out and pressed a thumb against it. With a grinding of ancient gears, a groaning of antique cables, the elevator started down. IV TiTagnan emitted a shrill cry and attempted to climb the wall "Retief! What's happening?" "No, no, Mr. Magnan," Retief said, "Your line is, 'Ah, just as I planned.' That's the way reputations for forethought are built." "Shilth was quite right about the claustrophobia," Magnan said in a choked voice. "I feel that the walls are going to close in on me!" "Just close your eyes and pretend you're at a Tuesday morning staff meeting. The relief when you find yourself here should carry you through anything short of utter catastrophe." With a shudder and a clank, the car came to a halt. "N-now what?" Magnan said in a small voice. Retief felt over the door, found the stub of a lever. He gripped it and pulled. Reluctantly, the door slid aside on a large, column-filled room faintly lit by strips of dimly glowing material still adhering to the ceiling and walls, which were adorned with murals depicting grotesque figures engaged in obscure rites. "Tomb paintings," Magnan said in a hushed voice. "We're in the catacombs. The place is probably full of bones -- not that I actually believe in the curses of dead kings or anything." "The curses of live Ambassadors are far more potent, I suspect," Retief said, heading the way across the room and into one of the many passages debouching from the chamber. Here more cabalistic scenes were etched in still-bright colors against the ancient walls. Cryptic legends in an unknown script were blazoned across many of them. "They're probably quotations from the local version of the Book of the Dead," Magnan hazarded, his eye caught by a yividly pigmented representation of a large alien being making what seemed to be a threatening gesture at a second alien from whose ears wisps of mist coiled. "This one, for example," he said, "no doubt shows us the God of the Underworld judging a soul and finding it wanting." The passage turned, branched. The left branch dead-ended at an ominous-looking sump half filled with a glistening black fluid. "The sacrificial well," Magnan said with a shudder. "I daresay the bottom -- goodness knows how far down that is -- is covered with the remains of youths and maidens offered to the gods." Retief sniffed. "It smells like drained crankcase oil." They skirted the pit, came into a wide room crowded with massive, complex shines of corroded metal, ranked in rows in the deep gloom. "And these are the alien idols," Magnan whispered. "Gad, they have a look of the most frightful ferocity about them." "That one," Retief indicated a tall, many-armed monster looming before him, "bears a remarkable resemblance to a hay-baler." "Mind your tongue, Retief!" Magnan said sharply. "It's not that I imagine they can hear us, of course, but diy tempt fate?" T here was a sharp click!, a whirring and clattering, a stir of massive forms all across the gloomy chamber. Magnan yipped and leaped back as a construct the size of a fork-lift stirred into motion, turned, creaking, and surveyed him with a pair of what were indisputably glowing amber eyes. "'We're surrounded," Magnan chirped faintly. "And they told us the planet was uninhabited!" "It is," Retief said, as more giant shapes moved forward, accompanied by the squeak of unlubricated metal. "Then what are these?" Magnan came back sharply. "Oversized spooks?" "Close, but not kewpie doll," Retief said. "This is the city garage, and these are maintenance robots." "R-r-robots?" "Our coming in must have triggered them to come to alert status." They moved along the row of giant machines, each equipped with a variety of limbs, organs, and sensors. "Then... then they're probably waiting for us to give them orders," Magnan said with returning confidence. "Retief! Don't you see what this means? We can tell them to jump in the lift and ride up and scare the nether garments off that sticky little Shilth and his army -- or we could have done," he added, "if they understood Terran." Terran under stood , a scratch bass voice rasped from a point just opposite Magnan's ear. He leaped IF and whirled, banging a shin smartly. Retiefl They understand us! We're saved! Good lord, when I first planned our escape via the lift, I never dreamed we'd have such a stroke of luck!" 'Now you're getting the idea," Retief said admiringly. "But why not just add that extra touch of savoir-faire by pretending you'd deduced the whole thing, robots and all, from a cryptic squiggle on the contact party's scopegram?" "Don't be crude, Retief," Magnan said loftily. "I fully intend to share the credit for the coup. In my report I'll mention that you pushed the lift button with no more than a hint from me." "Maybe you'd better not write up that report just yet," Retief said, as a robot directly before them shifted position with a dry squeal of rusty bearing to squarely block their advance. Others closed in on either side; they turned to find retreat similarly cut off. "My, see how eager they are, Retief," Magnan said in a comfortable tone. "There, there, just stand aside like a good, er, fellow," he addressed the machine before him. It failed to move. Frowning, Magnan started around it, was cut off by a smaller automaton -- this one no bigger than a commercial sausage grinder, and adorned with a similar set of blades visible inside a gaping metallic maw. "Well! I see they're in need of re-programming," Magnan said sharply. "It's all very well to fawn a little, but -- " "I'm not sure they're fawning," Retief said. "Then what in the world are they doing?" Terr an are surrounded, a voice like broken glass stated from behind the encircled diplomats. "IFe are judging Terran an imoiled tenor stated from the rear rank. And finding you wanting, Frightful oversized robots will jump on your smoking remains chimed in a third voice, reminiscent of a file on steel. "PFe are eager for crude contact, Broken Glass agreed. #'hey have a curious mode of expressing themselves,' Magnan said nervously. "I seem to detect an almost ominous note in their singular choice of words." "I think they're picking up their vocabulary from us," Retief said. "Retief -- if it wasn't so silly, I'd think that one intended us bodily harm," Magnan said in a tone of forced jocularity, as a ponderous assemblage of sharp edges came forward, rumbling. "PFe intend you bodily harm File-on-Steel said. "But -- but you can't attack #," Magnan protested. "You're just machines! We're alive! We're your rightful masters!" T# Masters are better than robots Broken Glass stated. "Fom are not better than us. You are not masters. We will certainly harm you, You will not escapey a redeyed monster added. "Retief, I suspect weVe made a blunder," Magnan said in a wavering tone. "We were better off at the tender mercies of the Groacil" "What's it all about, boys?" Re. tief called over the gathering creak and clank as the machines closed in. This planet is not your world. We are programmed to give no mercies to you fellow. "Just a minute," Magnan protested. "We're just harmless diplomats. Can't we all be friends or something?" "Who gave you your order?" Retief asked. "Owr masters replied a voice like a sand-filled gearbox. "That was a long time ago," Retief said. "Matters have changed somewhat." "Yes, indeed," Magnan chimed in, "You see, now that your old masters are all dead, we're taking over their duties." "#r duties are to see you dead, Red-eye boomed, raising a pair of yard-long cleavers. "HelpI" Magnan yelped. "We wouldn't want to stand in the way of duty," Retief said, watching the poised cutting edges, "but suppose we turned out to be your masters after all? I'm sure you wouldn't want to make the mistake of slicing up your legitimate owners." "You see, we took over where they left off," Magnan said hastily. "We're, ah, looking after all their affairs for them, carrying out their wishes as we understand them, tidying up -- " 'There is no mistakey Terran, You are not our masters, "You said masters are better than robots," Retief reminded the machine. "If we can prove our superiority, will you concede the point?" V S ilence fell, broken only by the whir and hum of robotic metabolisms. " you could so prove, we will certainly concede your status as our masters," Sand in the gears said at last. "Gracious, I should think so!" Magnan jerked his rumpled lapels into line. "For a moment, Retief, I confess I was beginning to feel just the teeniest bit apprehensive." You have one minute to prove your superiority," Broken Glass said flatly. "Well, I should think it was obvious," Magnan sniffed. "Just look at us." 'Indeedy weve done so. We jind IF you Utile, silly, crude, tender, apprehensive and harmless!' "You mean -- ?" "It means we'll have to do something even more impressive than standing around radiating righteous indignation, Mr. Magnan." "Well, for heaven's sake," Magnan sniffed. "I never thought I'd see the day when I had to prove the obvious ascendancy of a diplomat over a donkey engine." 'We are waiting," File-on-Steel said. "Well, what do they expect?" Magnan yelped. "It's true they're bigger, stranger, faster, longerlived, and cheaper to operate; and of course they have vast memory banks and can do lightning calculations and tricks of that sore -- which, however, can hardly compare with our unique human ability to, ah, do what we do," he finished in a subdued tone. What do you do?" Red-eye demanded. "Why, we, ah, demonstrate moral superiority," Magnan said brightly. "Shilth was right about your sense of humor," Retief said admiringly. "But I think we'd better defer the subtle japes until we discover whether we're going to survive to enjoy the laugh." "Well for heaven's sake do something, Retief," Magnan whispered, "before they make a terrible blunder." He rolled his eyes sideways at a scythe-like implement hovering as if ready to shear at any instant through the volume of space he occupied. Time is up," Broken Glass said. 'he machines surged forward. The scythe, sweeping horizontally, clanged against the descending cleavers as Retief and Magnan jumped aside from the rush of a low-slung tree mower with chattering blades. The latter swerved, collided with a massive punch-press, one of whose piston-hke members stabbed through the side of a ponderous masonry wrecker. It wobbled, did a sharp right turn and slammed into the cast-concrete wall, which cracked and leaned, allowing a massive beam to drop free at one end, narrowly missing Magnan as he rebounded from the flank of a charging garbage shredder. The falling girder crashed across the mid-section of the latter machine with a decisive crunch I pinning the hapless apparatus to the spot. It clashed its treads futilely, sending up a shower of concrete chips. The other machines clustered around it in attitudes of concern, the Terrans for the moment forgotten. "HsstI Retief! This is our chance to beat a strategic withdrawal!" Magnan stage-vhispered. "If we can just make it back to the elevator -- " 'We'll find Shilth waiting at the top," Retief said. "Mr. Magnan, suppose you find a comfortable spot behind a packing case somewhere. I'm not quite ready to leave yet." 'Are you insane? These bloodthirsty bags of bolts are ready to pound us to putty!" "They seem to be fully occupied with another problem at the moment," Retief pointed out, nodding toward a post-hole digger which was fruitlessly poking at the end of the beam which had trapped its fellow. The scythe-armed robot was as busily scraping at the massive member, without result. The ranks parted to let a heavy-duty paintchipper through; but it merely clattered its chisel-tips vainly against the impervious material. And all the while, the pinioned machine groaned lugubriously, sparks flying from its commutator box as it threshed vainly to pull free. Retief stepped forward; Red-eye swiveled on him, raising a large mallet apparently designed for pounding heavy posts into hard ground. "Before you drive home your argument," Retief said, "I have a proposal." What proposal? "You don't seem to be having much luck extricating your colleague from under the beam. Suppose I try." "Owe minute, I will lift the heamy a deep voice boomed. A massively built loading robot trunIF died forward, maneuvered deftly into position, secured a grip on the concrete member with its single huge arm and heaved. For a moment, nothing happened; then there was a sharp clonk! and a broken duralloy torque rod dangled from the lifter's forged-steel biceps. The girder had not stirred. CC'ough luck, old fellow," Retief said. turn." 'Good heavens, Retief, if that cast-iron Hercules couldn't do it, how can you hope to succeed?" Magnan squeaked from his comer. "Fow have the ability to help our colleague? Broken Glass demanded. "If I do, will you follow my orders?" " you can do that which we cannot do, your superiority is obvious "In that case, just pull that bar out of there, will you?" Retief pointed to a four-inch diameter steel rod, twenty feet long, part of a roller assembly presumably once used in loading operations. A stacking machine gripped the rod and gave it a firm pull, ripping it free from its mountings. "Stick one end under the edge of the beam, like a good fellow," Retief said. "You there, jack-hammer: push that anvil under the rod, eh?" The machines complied with his requests with brisk efficiency, adjusting the lever as directed, with the fulcrum as close as possible to the weight to be lifted. "Retief -- if you couldn't even lift the lever how are you going to... " Magnan's voice faded as Retief stepped up on the treadskirt of a sand-blaster and put a foot on the up-angled long arm of the jury-rigged pry-bar. Steadying himself, he let his full weight onto the rod. Instantly, it sank gracefully down, lifting the multi-ton beam a full half-inch from the depression it had imprinted in the garbage shredder. TTie latter made a clanking sound, attempted to move, emitted a cascade of electrical sputterings and subsided. "He's ruptured himself I" Magnan gasped. "Poor thing. Still, we've done our part." The other madiines were maneuvering, making way for a squat cargo-tug, which backed up to the victim, but was unable to get in position to attach its tow-cable. A dirt-pusher with a wide blade tried next, but in the close quarters failed to get within six feet of the disabled machine. The others had no better luck. "Mr. Magnan, find a length of cable," Retief called. Magnan rummag, turned up a rusting coil of braided wire, "One of you robots with digits tie one end of the cable to the patient," Retief said. "Cinch the other up to something that won't give." U# minutes later the cable was stretched drum tight from a massive stanchion to the cripple, running between closely-spaced paired columns. "Next, we apply a transverse pull to the center of the cable," Retief directed. "They can" Magnan wailed. "There's no room!" "In that case, Mr. Magnan, perhaps you'd be good enough to perform the office." "I?" Magnan's eyebrows went up. "Perhaps you've forgotten my Motorman's Arm." "Use the other one." "You expect me, one-handed, to budge that ten-ton hulk?" "Better hurry up. I feel my foot slipping." "This is madness," Magnan exclaimed, but he stepped to the cable, gripped it at mid-point, and tugged. With a harsh squeak of metal, the damaged machine moved forward half an inch. "Why -- why, that's positively astonishing!" Magnan said with a pleased look. "Tighten the cable and do it again!" Retief said quickly. The Machines hurried to take up the slack. Magnan, with an amazed expression, applied a second pull. The wreck 'moved another centimeter. After three more nibbles, 'the tug was able to hook on and idrag its fellow clear. Retief jumped gown, letting the beam drop with an incredible floor-shaking boom! "Heavens!" Magnan found his voice. "I never imagined I was such a brute! After all, the diplomatic life is somewhat sedentary... " He flexed a thin arm, fingering it in search of a biceps. "Wrestling with the conscience is excellent exercise," Retief pointed out. "And you've held up your end of some rather weighty conversations in your time." "Jape if you must," Magnan said coolly. "But you can't deny I did free the creature. Er, machine, that is." You have freed our colleague, Sand-in-the-gears said to Magnan. We are waiting for your orders, Master. "To be sure," Magnan placed his fingertips together and pursed his lips. "You won't fit into the lift," he said judiciously, looking over his new subj'ects. "Is there another way up?" "To be sure. Master." "Excellent. I want all of you to ascend to the surface at once, round up and disarm every Groaci on the planet, and lock them up. And see that you don't squash the one called Shilth in the process. I have a little gloating to do." VI n a newly excavated terrace under a romantically crumbling wall of pink brick, Magnan and IF Relief sat with Shilth, the latter wearing a crestfallen expression involving quivering anterior mandibles and drooping eye-stalks. His daborate cloak of office was gone, and there were smudges of axle grease on his once-polished thorax. "Dirty pool, Magnan," the Groaci said, his breathy voice fainter than ever. "I was in line for the Order of the Rubber Calipers, Second Class, at the very least, and you iled it all with your perambulating junk-yard. Who would have dreamed youd been so sly as to secretly conceal a host of warmachines? I suspect you did it merely to embarrass me." "Actually," Magnan began, and paused. "Actually, it was quite shrewd of me, now that you mention it." "I think you overdid the camouflage, however," Shilth said acidly as a street-broom whiffled past, casting a shower of dust over the party. "The confounded things don't appear to be aware that the coup is over. They're still carrying on the charade." "I like to keep my lads occupied," Magnan said briskly, nodding grandly at a hauler trundling past along the newly cleaned avenue with a load of newly uprooted brush. "Hielps to keep them in trim in case they're needed suddenly to quell any disturbances." "Neva fear, I've impressed on Thish that he will not long survive any thneat to my well-being." "Company coming," Relief said, gesturing toward a descending point of sun-bright bine light. They watched the ship settle in to a landing a quarter of a mile distant, then rose and strolled over to greet the emerging passengers. "Why, it's Mr. Penny fool," Magnan said. "I knew he'd be along to rescue us. Yoo-hoo, Mr. Pennyfool!" "That's Mr. Ambassador, Magnan," Pennyfool corrected sharply. "Kindly step aside. You're interfering with a delicate negotiation." The little man marched past Relief without a glance, halted before Shilth, offering a wide smile and a limp hand. The Groad studied the latter, tinned it over gingerly and examined the back, then dropped it. #T iver spots," he said. "How  unesthetic." "Now, Planetary Director Shilth, we're prepared to offer a handsome fee in return for exploratory rights here on Verdigris." Pennyfool restored his smile with an effort. "Of course, anything we find will be turped over to you at once -- " "Oh, ah, Mr. Ambassador," Magnan hazarded. "We Groad," Shilth said sourly, "are not subject to such pigmentational disorders. We remain a uniform, soothing puce at all times." "Sir," Magnan piped up. "I'd just Uke -- " Now, naturally, we're prepared to underwrite a generous program of planetary development to assist your people in settling in," Pennyfool hurried on. "I had in mind He paused to gauge reaction. "Per year, of course," he amended, judging the omens, "with adequate bonuses for special proj'ects, naturally. Now, I'd say a staff of say two hundred to begin with... ?" "Pennyfool, I have a dreadful node-ache," Shilth hissed. "Why don't you go jump down an elevator shaft?" He patted back a counterfeit yawn and stalked away. "Well, I can see that this is going to be a challenge," Pennyfool said, staring after the alien. "The tricky fellow is going to hold out for two "Mr. Ambassador, I have good news," Magnan said hastily. "We can save the taxpayers those billions. Verdigris belongs to me!" "See here, Magnan, the privation can't have scrambled your meager wits already! You've only been here seventytwo hours!" "But, sir -- there's no need to promise Shilth the moon -- " "Aha! So that's what he's holding out for. Well, I see no reason the negotiation should founder over a mere satellite." Pennyfool turned to pursue Shilth. "No, no, you don't quite grasp my meaning," Magnan yipped, grabbing at his superior's sleeve. "Unhand me, Magnan!" Pennyfool roared. "I'll see to your release after other, more vital matters are dealt with. In the meantime, I suggest you set a good example by cobbling a record number of shoes, or whatever task they've set you -- " "Master, is this person troubling you?" a torn-metal voice inquired. Magnan and Pennyfool whirled to see a rust covered hedge-clipper looming over them, four-foot-clippers at the ready. "No, that's quite all right, Albert," Magnan said acidly. "I like being bullied." "You're quite certain you don't wish him trimmed to a uniform height? "No. I just want him to listen to what I have to say." Albert clacked the shears together with a nerve-shredding sound. "I -- I'd love to listen to you, my dear Magnan," Pennyfool said rapidly. AyTagnan delivered a brief account of his capture of the planet. "So you see, sir," he concluded, "the whole thing is Terran property." "Magnan!" Pennyfool roared, then with a glance at Albert lowered his voice to a whisper. "Do you realize what this means? When I reported the Groaci here ahead of us, I was appointed as Terran Ambassador Extraordinary and IF Minister Plenipotentiary to the con" founded place! If we own it, then pfft! There goes my appointment!" "Great heavens, sir," Magnan paled at the announcement. "I had no idea!" "Look here, do you suppose we could get the Groaci to take it back?" "What, stay here, surrounded by these mobile moldy monstrosities?" Shilth, who had returned silently, hissed. "Never! I demand repatriation!" Retief caught Magnan's eye as Pennyfool turned to soothe the Groaci. "What is it, Retief? Can't you see I'm at a critical point, careerwise?" "I have a suggestion," Retief said... As Magnan rejoined Pennyfool, Shilth was still hissing imprecations. "Master, what say I prune this fellow a bit?" Albert proposed. "He seems to have sprouted too many eyes." "Not unless he says another word," Magnan said. He turned to Pennyfool with a thoughtful look. "I say, sir, suppose I should come up with a scheme which will insure you confirmation, and which will at the same time reflect favorably on the Terran image? You know, the kindly, selfless, helping-hand sort of thing?" es, yes?" "I daresay once established here, you'd want to surround yourself with a staff widely versed in local problems -- " "Naturally. Tliere are plenty of reliable team-men available doing Underground research work in subterranean libraries back at Sector. Get on with it, Magaan." "I want the Counsellorship," Magnan said crisply. "You, number two man in my Embassy? Ridiculous! Pd have to jump you over the heads of men with vast experience under their belts!" "Most of my experience has been at a somewhat higher level," Magnan said loftily. "No Counsellorsliip no scheme." "What's this, Magnan, blackmail?" Pennyfool gasped. "Precisely," Magnan said. Pennywise opened his mouth to yell then closed it and nodded. "Magnan, it's apparent you're more familiar with the techniques of diplomacy than I suspected. I accept. Now, just what do you have in mind?" # #Tt's a bit unusual," Ambassa dor Pennyfool said complacently, glancing out the window of his freshly refurbish office on the top floor of a newly excavated tower of green-anodized aluminum serving other hand, it is a challenge." "Gracious, yes," Counsellor Magnan said, nodding. "The first Terran envoy to present credentials to a mechanical Head of State. "I don't know," the Military Attache said darkly. "Freeing these inanimate objects and letting them set up in business for themselves may create a dangerous precedent. What if my cybernetic military equipment, for example, should start getting ideas about pensions and promotions?" "d office machines," the Budget and Fiscal Officer said worriedly. "If my bookkeeping computers took it into their transistors to start agitating for civil rights I shudder to contemplate the consequences in terms of, say, late pay checks." "I'm already having trouble with my Motor Pool picking up liberal ideas," the Admin Officer wagged his head, frowning. "I've had to enact strict rules against fraternization with the natives." There was a musical chime from the desk screen. The square-cornered sense-organ panel of Planetary Secretary Albert Sand-in-theGears appeared. "Ah, there, Pemiyfool," the robotic Chief of State said in a tone as genial as his vocal equipment would allow. "I hoped I'd find you in. I was just ringing up to ask whether you'd care to join me on the links this afternoon for a few holes of ballistic golf." "I'm sorry, Mr. President," the IF Terran said shortly. game in which one is required to score eight holes-in-one out of ten from a tee seven miles from the green is not my strong suit." "Of course. I keep forgetting you're not equipped with telescopic sights. A pity." The President sighed, a sotmd like tearing steel. "It was difficult enough grasping the idea of the superiority of my inferiors; trying to behave as equals is even more trying. No offense intended, of course." "Mr. President -- who's that sitting behind you?" Penny fool asked sharply. "Ah, forgive me. This is Special Trade Representative Shilth, of Groac. His government has sent him along to assist in getting the Verdigrian economy rolling." "How long has he been here?" # T ong enough to demonstrate my indispensability," Shilth leaned forward to leer at the Terrans. "I've already concluded Trade Agreements with a number of hard currency markets for export of Verdigrian antiquities." "You didn't," Pennyfool gasped. "Oh, have no fear, they're not the real thing." Shilth waggled an eye at Magnan, who pretended not to notice. "Though we let it be noised about that they're all bootleg National Treasures." "Oh, I see. Reproductions?" Pennyfool grunted. "Just so you don't ship any irreplacable objets d'arte off-planet." "We won't. We require them as patterns for the matter duplicators." "Eh?" "The locals are digging them out by the truckload; they sort them, discard the rejects -- broken pots and the like -- then scrub up the choice items and send them along to the duplication centers. We already have a dozen plants in full swing. Our ceramic fingering-knobs are already a sensation with the cultured set. In a year Verdigris will be known as the antique capital of the Eastern Arm." "Matter duplicators? You're flooding the Galaxy with bogus antiques?" "Bogus? They're identical with the real thing, to the last molecule." "Hahl The genuine articles are priceless examples of Verdigrian art; the copies are just so much junkl" "But, my dear Pennyfool -- if one can't distinguish a masterpiece from a piece of junk... ?" " can detect the genuine at a glance I " "Show me," the Groaci said, and whipped out a pair of seemingly identical shapes of lumpy blueglazed clay the size and approximate shape of stunted rutabagas. "... but unfortunately, I have something in my eye," Pennyfool subsided, poking at the offending organ. "A pity. I would have enjoyed a demonstration of your expertise," Shilth cooed. "Well gentlemen, that tears it," the Ambassador said to his staff after the screen had blanked. "After all my delicate maneuvering to secure self-determination for these unfortunate relics of a by-gone age, of paternal influence vis-a-vis their emergent nation, the infernal Groaci have stolen a march on us again. Fake antiques, indeed!" "Goodness, I see what you mean, Mr. Ambassador," Magnan said sympathetically. "Why didn't we think of doing that?" Tn the Chancery corridor ten minutes later, Magnan mopped at his thin neck with a large floral-patterned tissue. "Heavens, who'd have thought he'd fly into such a passion?" he inqiared of Retief. "After all, it isn't as if those silly little gobs of mud possessed an intrinsic merit." "Oh, I don't know," Retief said. "They're not bad, considering that the locals have to mass-produce them and bury them at night when nobody's looking." "Retief!" Magnan stopped dead. "You don't mean... ?" "It seemed like a good idea to sidetrack the Groaci away from the genuine stuff," Retief pointed out, in a completely serious voice. "Just in case any of it had any sentimental value." "Fake fakes," Magnan murmurred. "The concept has a certain euphony." They paused beside a pair of double doors opening onto an airy balcony two hundred feet above the freshly scrubbed city. As they stepped out, a small copter with a saddle and handlebars came winging in across the park to hover just beyond the balustrade. "Hope aboard, Retief, we're late," the machine called in a cheerful baritone. "Retief, where are you going?" Magnan barked as the latter swung over the rail. "You have the quarterly Report of Redundant Reports to compile, to say nothing of the redundant reports themselves!" "Duty calls, Mr. Magnan," Retief said soothingly. "My additional assignment as Wildlife Census Officer makes it incumbent on me to cement relations with the locals. I'm off to a game of sky polo with a couple of Cabinet Ministers." He waved and set spurs to his mount, which launched itself with a bound into the wide      IF continued from page #) placed it within the device's field. At once it appeared to "squeeze" down just as I had seen life do in other Tepen traps. The weapon acted as effectively as would any organically generated field. I learned how to make the field large or small. When, in time, I had the desired knowledge, I killed the remaining Tepen without qualms. Tow the sun was rising above the valley's rim and a cold wind blew through the village. Thankful that I could use my indirect faculties again, I teleported myself and the new weapon to the cavern of Ayorian grouping many miles away and five miles below ground. Though exhausted and badly in need of nourishment, I returned to the empty Tepen village quickly. I remembered how Erne had described the power supply surround ing me. She had learned that she could shut it down by moving radioactive particles away faster than they were produced. Though I couldn't reach this low energy level, perhaps something similar might be arranged at the molecular level -- which I could reach. I found a mixture of different elements in rodlike containers which furnished the main Tepen power source. By moving certain kinds of heavy chemicals from poorer to richer local concentrations, I increased the activity of the power supply. I had no knowledge of just how fast such an increase could take place. Fortunately I was well over thirty miles away from the village when the power supply blewl The Tepen were not dumb. As a matter of fact, they had been able to duplicate nearly all of the Ayorian senses by means of directaction science. I appreciated the truly stupendous amount of practical knowledge which they had gained. It would be possible for them to ignore the blowup of one village. Would they overlook more odd occurences? Not wishing to risk their further alarm and since my final plan required a full Ayorian grouping, I had nearly a whole Enithra year to wait. It would be dangerous to use the time in further harrassment of the Tepen, I concluded. But what should I do? he answer was obvious. I would " rejoin the children. Not only to avoid the long period of aloneness -- for we Ayor do not take well to long periods of solitude but also to prepare for the implementation of my plan. Any Ayor can always find any other. This is why we use objects for hide-and-seek, rather than oursdves. How this is accomplished I #o not know; but since I desired to rejoin my group, I teleported perhaps sixty or seventy times -- between two and three thousand miles -- and found them. On my way I filled my stomach with berries and nuts, stopping only long enough between jumps to sense nourishment and move it to my stomach organ. The day was nearly gone, the sun weakening rapidly, but the children were still deep in one of their philosophical games which all Ayorian children and adults love so well. When I arrived, they clustered around me excitedly as I brought forth concept after concept of a new and novel nature. All of them were familiar with my twinning problem -- not the real one which I had accepted at Erne's death, but the assumed one which the grouping had called upon me. I didn't attempt to argue my conviction regarding the Tepen. This would have been futile. My plan was far more subtle, and I was convinced that every Ayorian must as represented by Tepen or surely all Ayorians would one day be extinct. Had they ever thought of an infinite series of teleportations across an infinite set of points? I demonstrated what I meant by walking back and forth across the valley, so they could observe the characteristic of "continuous motion." Had they observed the relationship between twinning structure and language structure? I demonstrated the concreteness of the Tepen language versus the abstraction of the Ayorian language. Had they considered the requisite characteristics of tools required for direct" action on material things as opposed to "indirect" mental action? I demonstrated by using my body -- fingers, hands, arms and legs -- in new and novel ways, then moved on to the construction of crude implements. Sticks used for shovels, levers and other devices of this nature captured their attention for weeks before I could direct their attention to more sophisticated Tepen machinery. Needless to say, Spork, the Ayorian moron, kept their attention for the year of wait. Though Spork was still far inferior in mass-sensing and teleportation, he was proving to be superior in philosophical construct! This latter, as all Ayorians knew, was far the most important. Without it, how could individuals twin or the Ayorian race advance? One member of our children's group reached beyond his immature plateau level. He matured nearly to the point of twinning and thus left us for adult company. The excitement of this event caused all to press me even harder for novel philsophical ideas. I saved my best and biggest idea for the time of grouping, however. This idea consisted of two parts. IF Can intelligent beings exist which do not twin?" And: "What happens to a race when they refuse to accept their twinning problem?" VI 'he time of grouping came again. I waited silently in our huge grouping cavern, letting my mind wander back over the memory of my years, back to Erne's careful telekinetic caressing of my small body when I so needed comfort and attention. As the Ayor formed their grouping chain overhead I imagined I could once again sense Erne in her appropriate polarity position for this year. I imagined that I could sense her attention on me, supplying me with air and food and water as my needs became apparent. I imagined, too, that I once again could feel her love for me and her hidden puzzlement, always present, as to the purpose of her twinning problem -- namely me, Spork the Ayorian moron. I imagined I could answer her. I said, "# now know the purpose of your twinning problem. Bear with me through this next great trial and you, too, shall know. Then you will be free to complete your twinning!" When the cavern was filled with all the Ayor, lined up according to their respective philosophical polarities, and their grouping interchanges had begun, I turned on the Tepen field from the captured Tepen weapon. It filled the whole cavern to contain all the Ayor. Slowly I turned the dial to squeeze the field down. Slowly the whole Ayorian race was squeezed tighter and tighter with no way of escape. "It is the Tepen!" they shouted as one, in near hysteria. "No!" I shouted back. "It is Spork, the Ayorian moron!" "What are you doing, Spork? Why are you doing this?" they chorused. "I, Spork, was given my twinning problem last year at the grouping. I have come to solve it!" Their puzzlement was clearly evident. I let them think on it while I twisted the field down tighter. "We are not Tepen! Why do you treat us like this?" they cried together. "I am presenting the Ayor with a racial twinning problem!" I responded enigmatically. Then, no matter what they asked, I kept silent. I knew the Ayorian mind as I knew my own. My seeds had been planted -- now, as well as earlier with the children! D ays passed as I squeezed the field down always tighter. Each squeeze caused the Ayor more anguish. But each squeeze had the (Jesired effect. By now they were forgetting the insignificant philosophical points which formerly took so much of their energy and time. Every member was called on by the racial mind of the Ayor to contribute every bit of itself toward a solution to this dilemma. Weeks passed in silence... to be broken finally by the suffering Ayor. "We understand! We accept our racial twinning problem." And I released the field! The seeds I had planted in the children's mind during the past year had slowly worked their way to the attention of the Ayorian consciousness. "What happens to a race," I had asked the children just before the grouping, "when they refuse to accept their twinning problem? Can intelligent beings exist which do not twin?" Faced with direct threat to survival of the whole race, the Ayors now recognized that Tepen were, and had been for many generations, their chief twinning problem. They now knew how they had refused to accept the problem -- how stagnated at one plateau of development each of the groupings had become. They knew what I had done to them with Tepen equipment would eventually have been done to them by Tepen. Then the Ayorian race would die or be enslaved! With individual Ayorians, once the twinning problem is accepted, one accepts full responsibility for its resolution. It is the same with the race. The Ayor, having seen their error, fully accepted the problem of evil Tepen as their racial twinning problem. With one hundred thousand Ayorians now giving it their primary attention, I felt no obstacle could prevent us from quickly overcoming the Tepen. I was close to being very wrong I Never once had the Tepen been endangered by any form of life on Enithra. They would feel secure. They would puzzle over the disappearance of one remote village, but they would have no cause for suspicion, or need for Ayorian traps, within their own communities. It was safe, therefore, for the Ayor to scout out the location of each Tepen on the planet. The day of attack arrived. Each Ayorian was assigned to the destruction of at least one Tepen and surveillance of another Ayorian to give assistance in event of trouble. At a prearranged time, each Ayor telekmassed his assigned Tepen several thousand feet underground. The sudden appearance of Tepen atoms within the matrix of underground materials caused a spontaneous realignment of energy patterns... resulting in huge atomic explosions imderground, effectively destroying each Tepen. D egraded, selfish, bestial entities that they were, yet still they had keen brains. The Tepen IF leader had prepared equipment for his self-protection even in the remote possibility of an Ayorian uprising, Such a contingency was so logically remote and unnecessary that it demonstrates the degree of paranoia which must have accompanied Tepen leadership! As each Ayorian accomplished his single act of destruction against his assigned Tepen, he also observed the success or failure of another. Athie, assigned to the Tepen leader who was located in his more than adequately protected citadel, was trapped by the Tepen first. His mental probes activated the protective devices. The Ayorian observing fWe turned to help -- and was trapped next. As each Ayorian mentally flew to help another, his own mental probes entrapped himself, as Ovef had been trapped in chase of the nut during our "nut game". Faster and faster the Ayorians were caught while I, nearly a planetary diameter away, raged in frustration. I rushed to one group of adults only to watch as they disappeared before my light receptors. I, Sport, the Ayorian moron, Spork, the would-be avenger, had been the cause of this disaster! Was this mighty effort merely the start of total Ayorian extinction? One group of children moved me the planetary distance and I arrived, striking in frenzy and anguish at the mound of metal which served to protect the Tepen leader and within which so many of my beloved Ayorian brethren were now trapped. Whatever I did had to be right! It also had to be done without the use of mass sense or teleportation faculties! I physically walked to the doorway of the metal mound, stepping: cautiously inside. There, in the center of the huge dome, was the suited figme of the last remaining Tepen. He floated over a circular platform surrounded by my entrped brethren. Though the telekinetic cages had only begun to be filled with Ayors, each was squeezed tightly against another and more entered in the brief moment of my glance. Enraged at these evil doings, T ran swiftly toward the platform interrible Tepen leader with my bands and teeth. Never before -- not since the time of Erne's death, at least -- had I had to control such terrible pent-up emotions. I rang forward -- and it wa then I hit the new physical-barrier energy field to be knocked uncon sdous by my own momentum! W hen I regained awareness, all was as before -- except that now there were twenty or more energy cages containing the suffering Ayor. Whatever threat I might have represented to the Tepen chief he must have felt was successfully countered by the new, invisible physical-barrier shield which I had struck. The Tepen leader ignored me. I regained my feet to batter in futile rage at the invisible shield. Around and around the platform and cages I raced, battering and bruising only my fists against the impregnable barrier; while, just beyond my reach, new energy cages sprang into being. Helplessly, I sat exhausted then, to stare at the polycyclic energy fields encaging my tribe. As each cycle passed from infra-red to ultra-violet, I could momentarily see their agonized bodies. Then, thank the great one, I knew the final answer I I teleported myself toward the evil Tepen -- only to find myself, as expected, trapped in Hie of the energy cages with the Ayor. Ah, but I could move through the energy cages with my appendages -- arms and legs I As I d learned so long ago, the magnetic structure of my being was too weak to be held by the field as my brethren were. I immediately pushed my way through the limbless Ayorian bodies, and easily pushed myself kinetic entrapping field to land on the floor beside the Tepen chief. Only then did he take cognizance of me. He raised his death ray toward me. But I had long ago learned how swiftly I could move compared to them. I dodged his motion easily, swung to his side and crushed my fist completely through the top of his thin artificial, metallic shell. My hand withdrew, dripping his sickly yellow fluids onto the "off" switches of the telekinetic cages. How filled with joy we were with the release of nearly half our tribe I Now the evil Tepen were dead -- and not one Ayorian had died in the accomplishment. The last citadel of the Tepen was largest of all; it contained every device invented or in use by the Tepen. Though we destroyed all other villages, we left the power plant operational in this largest one so that its metallic structures would be protected from the seeking fingers of Enithra life. As a racial group, the Ayor had reached and passed a major twinning plateau, I was sure. Heretofore, the Ayor, who were the dominant species of Enithra, excepting their degenerate descendants, had interest and concern for only things mental. So long as they persisted in this direction,, they came closer and closer to their racial extinction. Thus a plateau had been reached, unknowingly, many generations back. IF ic hypothesis of life, their relationship to it and their tribal goals, they maintained their plateau position unchanged. They had disguised their lack of evolutionary progress in their terrible drive for "consistency." Even their philosophical games, as I had learned under the children, bore the marks of this rigidity. Only those ideas which were both novel and simultaneously consistent with their past philosophy could win in the game. Over the years, truly new and novel ideas that were inconsistent with past philosophy were unacceptable. Thus the rise of the Tepen was inevitable as some kind of divergent radial adaptation. Fortunately for the Ayor, I, too, was inconsistent to the Enithra way of life -- not just to Ayor or Tepen, but to all plant life and animal life. I was capable of indirect and direct action against the material environment. Thus, as the central part of Emes twinning problem, she had to recognize and accept my inconsistency from Enithra patterns. If my beloved Erne had only lived, I like to believe that her eventual recognition and acceptance would have led her genetic children to accept the principle of direct action along with their native-born instinctive, indirect action. JT'ortunately, too, I was placed with the Ayorian children for so many years. There I thoroughly learned the Ayorian mind, how it worked, and how each individual twinning led to divergent radial adaptations through changes in the magnetic structure of each twin. For the Ayor, form followed function almost completely. Once function -- that is, accepted premises of one's attitude toward the universe -- changed, then so did their structure and their potential. Only the children were sufficiently plastic to accept my ideas as worthy of consideration -- even though not consistent with past Ayorian belief. Then, too, only the terrible Tepen threat to Ayorian survival could force the Ayorian adult to re-structure his thinking. I could easily imagine the next plateau for the Ayorians ! First, tentatively exploring and stumbling time and again, the Ayor would reach for the knowledge of the Tepen. Slowly but surely, they would enlarge the fabric of their being to include the principles of both direct and indirect action against their environment. Then, and only then, they would become true masters of their environment -- ready, perhaps, for the next plateau. But why do I speak of them" so easily? Am I not, too, an Ayorian? If I were truly an Ayor, one who has accepted fully another's twinning problem and conquered it successfully as I had Erne's, would I not twin? Yet here am I, Spork the moron, Spork the avenger, untwinned. Release of tension which often accompanies death and its dangers brought me to a new low of emotional apathy. I could not understand my failure to twin, as would any other Ayor who had conquered a twinning problem. So in puzzlement and emotional apathy, I turned my back on my brothers. I teleported at random, from point to point, across Enithra's surface. The sun shone brightly whenever I passed through cloudless skies; the flowers still displayed variegated rivers of colorful motion; animal life jumped and struggled around me. Yet I passed through Enithra's delights with my mind slowed and my spirits sagging. # hadrCt twined! Who am I? What am #? The place was profusely covered with dense violet jungle growth -- it was the place where Erne had found me twelve Enithra years ago. Oddly, I had not given thought to this place during all my years of growth. Nearly all of the metal I had been found in was gone. Plant life had found it an easy source for nourishment from which, molecule by molecule, it was drawn. My hand touched the polarization barrier surrounding the untouched dense metal ball within which Erne had found me. Inscribed on some chemical structure still unwanted by Enithra life was the regular geometric inscription that Erne had described to me and puzzled over for so many years. It was shaped thus: Beyond this strange geometry was the dense sphere. Inside it lay only broken pieces of apparatus discarded or not yet used by the voracious appetite of Enithra's life. Clearly, there was no hint here as to what Spork really was I In much sadness and sentimentalism, I sat to stare at this odd figure. My mind searched all around to recapture the original scene. Where had Erne hidden? What did she hide behind? Was she in the small hollow cave only three miles away? Was she behind that flowing waterfall only a mile away? With strangely watering lightreceptors, I let my mind reach through its forty-mile limit to find what would have appeared to Erne to be a good hiding place from Tepen. Then I imagined Erne there, slowly letting her fine-tuned telekmass sensor reach out for IF study of the once hot body at my feet. As I imagined her mind pushing from atom to atom, always alert for Tepen traps, I let my mind wander over the small life form which was I, inside the protective sphere; I imagined how I must have lain so still to be fed by strange mechanical and chemical apparatus. As my mind dwelled sentimentally on the total experience, I imagined I could once again feel the touch of soft hands pressing and caressing my baby skin. "Much like Erne's telekinetic touch," I thought. 'hen, still in deep fatigue and  reverie, fragments of my memory coalesced to break open with blinding reality. I really was being held! I could feel her hands on my back and her breast at my chest! I could smell her clean perfume! I knew the security of deep contentment that comes only with a full stomach and a biological mother's love! She patted me on my buttocks while the other being spoke: "Though we headed the house of the galactic council, Patricia, the sabotage was inevitable. We may be genetically superior. But to the common people we are still only human. Place the baby in the life container now." I, Spork, the Ayorian moron -- Spork, the avenger -- was Spork, "only human!" Aside from new conscious memory of my parent's similarity to my structure -- with arms, legs, nose, mouth and so on -- their conversation was as meaningless to me as was the geometry proclaiming Though I now knew I belonged to another species, the knowledge was only that, not an emotional fact of my life. And the noises which my parents used just before placing me in the life container were "feeling" messages, not semantic symbols terminating in conscious understanding. I still had to discern meaning. "Only human" was just a part of the buried semantic content in need of deciphering. I slept a dreamless sleep, deep with comfort and contentment this night The weather was mild and ally composing itself in nature's way, also prepared me for the long future ahead. I slept in peace. Perhaps I could not twin, but I had been given a new twinning problem: to find the content for the symbol "human" -- hue Dear Editor: Since President Nixon has recently gone on record as opposing appropriations for deep-space exploration, there are good grounds for your concern that our race will elect to delay its full entrance into space and return to its "wars and squabbles". If the squabbling is carried out in the usual fashion, this clearly involves a net loss. But the closed-system approach to inhabited planets has spawned an odd and somewhat frightening conjecture which might be used to defend Mr. Nixon's position. The conjecture (I believe it was made by Fred Hoyle) is that any intelligent race on the verge of becoming spacefarers is apt to be threatened at exactly that time with a period of extreme social instability -- a mechanism ideal for reducing interstellar congestion. The argument for this is fairly simple. A race which is just reaching the technological level needed for space travel is starting to crowd the limits of its planet in several important ways. Its civilization's normal functioning is starting to get rough on global ecology (and other environmental features). Its technology can raise comprehensive hell in the (formerly tolerable) event of major war. And it is being pressured toward these hazards by the simple force of population pressure. In one sense there shouldn't be any problem. The ecological damage could be cut down, the social tempers soothed and the population quickly decrowded -- all by some simple applications of fast, highvolume space travel to lots of well scouted habitable planets. The efficacy of this "frontier" solution could be argued by analogy with the salutary effects that the opening up of the Western Hemisphere had on our own "old world". But there will not be enough time for this solution to develop. Before the race can develop and carry out interstellar exploration, it will have (at least temporarily) taken itself out of the running... unless it can develop other means of getting itself through the social bottleneck. If this conjecture is at all correct the races who inherit the stars will be, paradoxically, not those which devote their energies to space travel as soon as it comes within their reach, but those which divert their energies to fairly successful dealings with their wars and squabblesl I would be interested in hearing other people's reactions to this idea. I do not apologize if the above sounds neo-Malthusian. I cannot agree with Mr. Gold's listing of Malthus among the "great refuted theorists" of the past, particularly in view of the fact that Argentina, Australia and the U.S. -- the only nations now producing more food than they can eat -- were all pure frontier to his world. -- Wilbur Walkoe, Jr., # Lake Michigan Drive, Allendale, Michigan #. # Very good points, to be sure. But whether they can be used to demonstrate the space program should be canceled is another question. We think not. First, because a solution which may not work should not be abandoned on those grounds unless there are alternative solutions which are both more likely to work and competitive with the uncertain one. We have no such alternative solutions. Second, because there is no clearly visible future time which will be better for implementing a space program than now, so why not do it now? (Especially since if population gro? remains explosive, iEill future times are likely to have less in the wsqt of available capital than the present.) Third -- and probably most important! -- Because Space Is There. The Editor,  #P  Dear Editor: Why don't you conduct a poll where fans send in a list of their favorite authors and you get stories from the top half dozen or so for a special issue of Galaxy or If? It might take a year to get stories from the favorite authors, but would be worth the wait. I'd like to see more of Robert Silverberg, Clifford Simak, Gordon Dickson and especially Fritz Leiber. -- Donald Leach, R.F.D. ##, East Holden, Maine #.  The idea's fine, the mechanics are a problem. So we probably can't do a special issue; but what we do do, and have been doing for years, is place very heavy reliance on what readers ask for: Andre Norton, for instance was requested by many readers, and so we made a determined effort to get Andre Norton stories (like The Toys of Tamisen!). And, of the four you mention -- we're happy to say all are upcoming in near-future issues of Galaxy and If. -- The Editor. of Honor: Robert (Doc) A. W. Lowndes. At the Hotel McAlpin, New York City. Advance membership #, or # at the door. Two Progress Reports will be sent to members. For information: Franklin M. Dietz, # Orchard Street, Oradell, New Jersey # line Inn, South Capitol and I Street, S.W. Washington D.C. Guest of Honor: Lester del Rey. Membership: #, in advance; #, at the door. For information: Jay Haldeman, # Woodbourne Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland #. burgh regional convention). At Allegheny Motor Inn, # Beers School Road, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. Guest of Honor: Robert Silverberg. Features a banquet. Membership: #, in advance, #, at the door. iFor information: Peter Hays, #I Wightman, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #. four or six weeks, and college credit may be granted. Faculty: Robin Scott, Frederik Pohl, Fritz Leiber, Harlan Ellison, Damon Knight and Kate Wilhelm. The cost is # for each two-week segmant and includes full room and board. For information: Robin Scott Wilson, English Department, Clarion State College, Clarion Pennsylvania #. # Allen Parkway, Houston, Texas. Membership #. For information: Tony Smith, # Lynnview, Houston, Texas #. The North Plaza Motel, #I Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio. For reservation blanks and information: Lou Tabakow, # St. Johns Terrace, Cincinnati, Ohio #. Monica, California. Guest of Honor: Randall Garrett. Fan Guest of Honor: Roy Tackett, Toastmaster: Harlan Ellison. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. A supporting membership of # entitles you to all publications. For Monica, California #. Make checks payable to Ken Rudolph. Inn, just off #-# and #-#, Knoxville, Tennessee. Guest of Honor: Rachel Maddux, author of "The Green Kingdom. Membership: #. For information: Janie Lamb, Rt. ##, Box #, Heiskell, Tennessee #. August #September #, #. ST. Convention. At Chase-Park Plaza Hotel, # N. Kingshighway, St. Louis, Missouri #. Guest of Honor: Jack Gaughan. Fan Guest of Honor: Ted White. Features.: Project Art Show; Masquerade Ball; All-night movies -- every night; Rock Band; Panels and speeches featuring all your favorite writers, editors, and artists; Auctions; Awards Banquet and the Presentation of the Hugos. Memberships: #, attending; #, supporting. Join now and receive all the progress reports as they are published. For information: St. Louiscon, P.O. Box #, St. Louis, Missouri #. Make checks payable to St. Louiscon. Warwick Hotel, #th and Locust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Membership: #. For information: Tom Purdom, # Cedar Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvia #. New subscriptions and changes of address require # weeks to process! IF O O O ) o o o oooo o o o y oo oo o o won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. CM'# by Cullen Rapp No. CX-# by Lynd Ward # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offerl No. CF-# by Emsh No. CF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollory of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: 'No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." Including, if you wish. The Science Fiction Book Club invites youto tqke; AnySbookSoXI  with trial membership #: A Space Odyssey #: A Arthur C. Clarke Hunting an alien "presence" In the universe, # men and a computer gone psycho tic stumble upon the incredible secret of mankind's birth -- only to trigger the cosmic "booby-trap" that could spell its death. A controversial best-seller by the most acclaimed science fiction writer of our era.  Please arcept my application for membership and rush me I the # books whose numbers I have circled below. Bill me only I I #, plus shipping and handling, for all #. Then, every  I month, send me the Club's free bulletin. "Things to Come", which ( describes coming selections. For each book I accept, I will pay only I #, plus shipping and handling, unless I take an extra-value selection at a higher price. I need take ( only four books within the coming year and may resign at any time ( thereafter. delighted with my introductory ( package, I may return it in # days to cancel membership. best-telling novel and award-winning cinema spectacular Science Fiction has grown up.  Have you kept up? A new literary genre has come of age -- your age. Mature. Sophisticated. Provocative. And respected. You are invited to explore it now under an amazing trial ofter. Take any # volumes on this page (worth up to .# in original publishers' editions) for only I with membership.  New club selections will be described to you in advance each month. Choose from new works of fiction -- and fact -- by such acclaimed authors as Ray Bradbury, Rod Serling, Isaac Asimov, Arthur Clarke, Robert Heinlein and others. All volumes are full-length, hardbound -- and uncut. Though they sell for as much as #, # and more in their original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping. (You may choose an optional extra-value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept as few as four books during the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #. Circle the numbers of the # books you want. # # # # # # # # # # # # Novclfl Print I Name I CIty #-S# If under #, parent must sign here. (OfTer good in U.S.A. only) I If under #, parent must s Offer good In U.S.A. onl y)  Dying Man A Natural State-all complete. Pub. ed. # #. Prelude to Mars by Arthur C. Clarke. "Sands of Mars" A "Prelude to Space"both complete! Plus # short' .stories. Pub. ed. # #. The Foundation Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # #. Last Starship From Earth by John Boyd. Young lovers flee loveless society ruled by computer "god . Pub. ed. #. #. The Past Through Tomorrow; "Future History" Stories, by Robert A. Heinlein. Pub. ed. # #. Twice # by by Kate Wilhelm. A scientist in the #rd century develops a robot with a laser eye. Pub. ed. # #. A Treasury of Ray Bradbury. Great Science FlcFourty-four stories tlon. #-volume set. by the Grand Mas# pages. Counts ter of science ficone book. Pub. Uon. Pub. ed. # ed. # #. Chocky by John' Wyndham. Alien powers "possess" small boy in shocker from author of "Day of the Triffids". #. From The Twilight Zone by Rod Serling. # spine-tingling stories that breach the gap between science and superstition. #. Asimov's Mysteries by Isaac Asimov. # loveand-larceny spiced whodunits of the future puzzlers all! Pub. ed. # JO #. Dangerous Vl slons. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon, Anderson, others. Pub. ed. #  We're grateful to all the science-fiction fans who gave our publications a clean sweep of every professional Hugo Award at the # World Science Fiction Convention. And we're proud that you've selected us for the Best Magazine Award for the past two consecutive years. We're even more grateful to the many loya readers who have made it possible for botl on. That means we can bring you twice as many of the best stories being written by th best science-fiction writers of all time. To earn your continued support, we're debetter in the future. You'll regret missing a single issue. So t be sure instead of sorry, why not fill in th coupon -- or write the information on a shee of plain paper -- and send it in today? You'l save money, too! #I Hudson Street New York, New York # rate. I enclose my check or money order for:  # issues of each for #  # issues of each for #  # issues of each for #.! Name Address City  State ,Zlp Code Prices outside the Western Hemisphere add I .# per I # issues for postage Please check whether  new or Q renewal Vol. #, N. # Frederik Pohl, Editor letter del Key, Managing Editor Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by Robert Bloch by C. C. MacApp by Robert Weinberg by Andre Norton by Lester del Rey IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation. Robert M. Guinn. President. Vol. # No. #, Main Office: #lHudson Street. New York #. #c per copy. Subscription # Issues # In the United States. Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing CmrmmMm #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed In the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # IF  Editorial Sufficient Unto The Day By a popular school definition, fiction holds up a mirror to life. Our stories simply reflect what we are. And if that is true, we may be in for the end of what some have called our most precious heritage -- human dignity. The great bulk of the so-called mainstream literature (and of New WhatchamacalKt science fiction) seems concerned with petty anti-heroes who whine over the lot of mankind but do nothing about it And they may be reflecting accurately a tendency that is strong in current human development The concept that the human animal is entitled to earn and hold dignity as an individual is fairly rare in human history. We inherited it from three sources. The ancient Hebrews somehow developed it. The Roman Republic held it for centuries, and its tradition got passed on into Christianity to some extent And above all, the ancient Norse people brought it to its peak and passed it on to ,us. (Even their gods had human dignity, and did not -- uniquely -- violate the dignity of their worshippers.) But to most of the rest of the world, dignity lay only in high places, or in the horde known as the State. Probably it's a luxury concept an overcrowded world of nearly four And hence, our current literature may be correct in reflecting the loss of man's belief in his own particular dignity. But science fiction does not reflect. It projects. And mostly we deal with worlds where men must have sense of human importance and dignity. Without that feeling, men do not go pioneering into new worlds or developing new ways to handle the inhum an laws of nature. What would be an accurate reflection of now must inevitably be a grotesque and silly lie for the worlds with which we deal. Sufficient unto the day fo the evil thereof. We have no obligation to yoke our futures to it. Our strength as a literature comes from the fact that we don't limit ourselves to telling it as it is. We can and should tell it as it will be -- as it must and should be. Science fiction has its own dignity and need not reflect anything from the literatures that have abandoned all hope on their long descent into their uninteresting hells. New places, or people you pass in the street, may seem oddly familiar to you . Have you known them in a previous lifjs? You wonder why you are living on earth to-day and for what purpose you are here. Certain secrets of life and mental development cannot be divulged indiscriminately. If you sincerely feel the need for instruction in the use of your higher creative endowment, you have reached the stage where the Rosicrucian teachings will be of practical value to you in your everyday life. Learn how to quietly impress your personality on others, to better your business and social position. Use your own naturally endowed powers to achieve results you now think unattainable in your present state of untrained and undirected endeavour. Simple Rosicrucian teachings enable intelligent men and women to soar to new heights of achievement, new freedom, new contentment in life. Devoted to the attainment of the true Brotherhood of Mankind, The Rosicrucians are a Non-Religious, Non-Political, Non-Profit Making Fraternity. You are invited, though not urged, to write for the free # page book -- "The Mastery of Life," which has been written to give readers an outline of the world-wide scope and history of this noncommercial fraternity. This invitation is not to be taken as an assurance that every applicant receiving "The Mastery of Life" will be approved for membership by the Dean of Students. Please use the coupon helou) or write to # Scribe: V.G.N. San Jose, California #, U.S.A. Name  Address State IF  Novelette, Drool was alien and green and ugly . And there was no other rock group like him anywhere -- in the beginning . I Working for him was about as safe as practicing dentistry on an I started my writing assignment at alligator, but I needed the bread. the studio on January #nd. Ten Besides, he did my kind of picminutes after I checked into my ture -- hed just finished a spookoffice I got a call from my protacular, The Turn Of The Screw, ducer, Effingwell Wright. and was now considering a sequel, The Return Of The Screw . Which was why I'd been hired. At least that's what I thought until I arrived at Wright's office. "We're going to do Hamlet " he announced. "Hamlet?" Wright nodded through a wreath of cigar-smoke. "That's it, baby. Now we only got one problem. How do we lick the story?" I stared at him. "I'm afraid I've never had any experience with Shakespeare." "Don't worry, you won't be working with him." Wright's cigar waved dismissal of the problem. "But there's a ghost in this property, isn't there? And that's where you come in." That, actually, is where Wright's secretary came in and handed him a letter. "Here's the censorship report. It just arrived." "Censorship?" Wright scowled through the smoke. "From the Anti-Amusement League. They want some changes in the story-treatment." Wright scanned the letter, shaking his head and muttering as he read. "Relationship between Hamlet and his mother is unacceptable to this office. Suggest you make him an orphan." Wright frowned, then went on. "Rosencrantz and Guildenstem objectionable for ethnic reasons -- no Jewish names. Recommend you make them Negroes." Wright sighed and continued. "Be  sure to eliminate vioend." He began to frown again. "Imperative that you cut the phrase, To be or not to be . It might encourage suicide." Wright's frown darkened. "Remove business with skull in graveyard scene. Better still, drop graveyard scene entirely. Too gruesome for kiddies in audience. Finally, we cannot accept the ghost. There must be no cheap, morbid nonsense about spirits of the dead thirsting for revenge. Sincerely -- " Wright shrugged at me. "Sorry, baby. You can't fight progress." He rose and moved with me to the door. "I'd Jike to use you on this project, but the Anti-Amusement League carries a lot of clout in the industry. I suggest you go back to your office and clean out your drawers." I got the message. I was being tossed out on my assignment. Meanwhile, back at the Unemployment Office -- II nphe first thing I did at the Unemployment Office was read the bulletin board to see if there were any openings. It had only one listing today, and I glanced at it. "Nit-pickers wanted . Must be experienced quibblers" I shook my head. No government job for me. Better off to apply for compensation. So I bought a paper and got in line to wait for my interview. From the look of the headlines, the year was starting off with a bang. Wars were escalating abroad, prices were escalating at home and taxes were just plain rising. Eighteen people had been killed in a riot for peace, and there was talk that no such groups would be allowed to demonstrate in the future without a riot-permit. A small box contained a bulletin on #I traffic fatalities and a large front-page story dealt with the arrest of a local museum guard who had been accused of mummy-molesting. I sought solace in the sports section, reading the scores of the New Year's football games -- the Rose Bowl, the Cotton Bowl, the Sugar Bowl, the Toilet Bowl -- "Pardon me," the soft voice murmured. Glancing up, I saw this unnatural blonde, the lass with the psychedelicate air. "Are you three o'clock?" she asked. It took me a moment to interpret her question; she wanted to know the time of my interview. "That's right," I nodded. "Mind if I slip in ahead of you? I'm two-forty-five." Actually, I'd have guessed her to be #-#-#, so I gallantly allowed her to precede me and returned to my reading. When I looked up again, she was gone, and I stepped before the window to do the interview bit It wasn't until I went outside that I saw her again. She was standing on the curb beside the car parked just ahead of mine -- a beat-up old heap 'with a bumper-sticker reading I Want To Be Conspicuous. The car was decorated with the usual floral designs, but from the look on the girl's face I gathered that her Flower Power had wilted. "Trouble?" I inquired. She glanced up. "Oh, it's you!" There was no point in denying it, so I nodded. "What's the matter -- car won't start?" It was her turn to nod. I opened the door and got behind the wheel. "Here, let me give you a hand." I gave her more than a hand; I gave her a foot, on the gas-pedal. The motor coughed, spluttered, then gave an unmistakable death-rattle. "Don't bother," she told me. "It's totalled." And she started to walk away. "Hey, aren't you going to call the Auto Club?" "Not unless they'll give me a lift home." I climbed out hastily. "Where's that?" "Above the Strip. On Basic Drive. You know where that is?" I opened the door of my own IF car. "Get in, and I'll prove it." "Thanks." She slid across the seat, snuggling over on the passenger side. I climbed in after her and we peeled off. A s we turned up Highland, I learned that her name was Sandy Simpson. Making a left on Sunset, I discovered that she was a professional body. "That's right," she said, as I reacted by nearly ramming the car into a lamp-post. "I sell my body for a living. All, or any part of it. You know, like in a TV commercial with a star -- sometimes her hands show her age, so when they cut to a tight closeup, it's my hands in the shot. Or maybe my feet. I do knees and elbows, too, and I'm very good at cleavage." "In other words, you're a double?" "A dubber, too. I specialize in howls for the laugh-tracks on comedy shows." And she gave out with an ear-splitting screech. "Sounds like a good racket." "Not lately." Sandy sighed heavily. "Haven't had a studio call in three months. I'd have starved to death if it wasn't for a couple of nose residuals I got from an old sinus-tablet commercial." "So that's why you were down collecting compensation." Sandy nodded. "What's your excuse?" "I'm a writer. In this business we are constantly starving." "TV or movies?" "I'm versatile. I starve in both." I crossed Crescent Heights and moved on into Sunset Strip. "Couldn't you do like, books?" "I've done like, books. Three of them, to be exact. How To Drown A Fish, The Romance of Sewage Disposal, and one of those big special gift-books -- A Pictorial History of Dandruff" "Did they sell?" "Like hot-cakes." I shrugged. "Trouble is, nobody buys hot-cakes in a bookstore." "But you're really a writer?" Sandy eyed me curiously. "What's your name?" "Considine. Joe Considine." "You got a pad around here?" This time I nearly piled up the car against a street sign. Not because of the implications of her question, but due to something I suddenly remembered. Something weighing about # pounds of solid, unyielding granite -- my landlord. "I did," I told her. "That is, I do and I don't. I mean, I haven't been getting up the rent for a couple of months and the landlord is leaning on me. I figured on drawing a salary advance today, only my job was shot down. So when I show up tonight without a payment, it's outsville." "Tiat abotft your compensation?" "Two week waiting period before I collect the first check." "I knew it!" Sandy bounced up and down on the seat, squealing happily. "Now you can move in with me!" I gave her a double-take, and she nodded quickly. "The minute I saw you standing in line, I figured you'd be a good choice." This time I watched the road before replying. "You mean you came down to the Unemployment Office to shop for a room-mate?" "Not a room, man. A great big groovy spread. And you can pay your share of the rent when your compensation checks come through -- just like the others." "Others?" Sandy nodded. "Don't worry, you won't be crowded. You'll see." She gave me a reassuring smile. "Like I'm not pressuring you. Just think about it." T thought about is as I drove. Drove along Sunset Strip, passing all the familiar landmarks. Here were the shops and the signs -- Mr. Gladys, the hair stylist -- Mother Naked's Southern Fried Chicken -- Toilet A-Go-Go -- the interior decorator place where they restored antique furniture like new -- and the other interior decorator place where they aged new furniture to make it look antique. We sped by the Now Generation Clinic, specializing in youthful diseases like hippytitis, and passed the Topless Restaurant where I had once been thrown out for not wearing a necktie. Dusk was falling, and the hippies were rising; the under-achievers, members of the uptrodden masses, hiding from the world behind dark glasses and beards. This was the scene -- boots and bare feet, buttons and bushy hair and beads, the mod and the odd intermingled. I'd never been with it; among these Flower Children I was just an elderly weed. But now, under the circumstances, perhaps I'd better blossom forth. I glanced at Sandy. There were worse fates than sharing a pad with her. At least it might be a temporary solution, until my agent came up with another job. "Okay, it's a deal," I told her "I'll sneak my things out of' the apartment and move in tomorrow." "Crazy," she said. "Turn right at the next corner -- that's Basic Drive." I turned right at the next corner and started the climb up a dark and deserted hillside street. And that's where the crunch came. The crunch, and the squeal as I applied my brakes -- just a moment too late to avoid impact. Apparently the street hadn't been entirely deserted after all, because there was a crumpled figure lying on the pavement before my car. IF Sandy and I opened our doors simultaneously, and a moment later we stood staring down at the yellow-suited, gray-booted little form sprawled in the street "Hippy outfit," Sandy murmured. "But he's just a kid -- " I nodded, then stooped and turned him over gently. His eyes were dosed and I couldn't distinguish his features here in the deepening darkness. But his chest rose and fell regularly, and that's what mattered the most to me at the moment. "He's alive." I gestured to Sandy. "Hold the door open while I get him in." Lifting him carefully, I placed him in the front seat of the car, right in the middle, so that when Sandy climbed in on her side he was propped up between us. "Hang onto him now," I told her. Sandy nodded obediently. Then she gasped. "What's the matter?" "His face -- he's turning green #" "Shock." I glanced over. My diagnosis was correct, but I had the wrong patient It was Sandy who was in shock. She sat there, gaping and pointing, trying to speak, "His hands are green, too -- " I shook my head grimly. "Hold tight. We may break a few speed records, but I've got to get him to a hospital." It was then that I felt the stirring beside me. It was then that I turned to see the yellow eyes pop open and the wide mouth part in a grin. The head twisted towards me and I heard the words. "Not hospital." A hand rose up in a restraining gesture. A hand that was perhaps a paw -- with a thumb and only three fingers. "Not hospital," the voice repeated firmly. And the next words fell like a knell of doom. "Take me to your leader ." Ill Tow the Strip is filled with un dersized specimens who wear far-out outfits. Some of them even cover their hands and faces with psychedelic designs in paint. Down there I'd probably never have given this one a second glance, but here in the lonely darkness of the hillside it was different. Everything about him was different -- his costume, his complexion, his size and his eyes. The face was froglike and that three-fingered paw was neither batrachian nor human. "Crazy #" Sandy whispered. And it was. Sandy seemed relieved now that the creatine had spoken, but I didn't share her reaction. "Don't you understand?" I muttered. "He's an alien" "So what? I've got nothing against foreigners." "But he's not an ordinary foreigner -- he's extra-terrestrial." "Nobody's perfect," she told me "The important thing is he's not hurt." She turned to the creature. "Isn't that right, man?" "Not man. Drool." "Drool? Is that your name?" "Yes. In your speech. Mine is different. Like you say, something else." "You're something else!" Sandy shook her head. "Are you really an alien, like Joe says?" The creature nodded. "I tell it like it is, man." Sandy stared at him. "Where did you learn how to speak such perfect English?" "In the ship." I got into the act. "You came in a ship? From where?" "Up." The green hand gestured. "Another planet?" Drool nodded. "But the ship was yours. Krool found it. What you call spacecraft. Hardware. One of yours -- empty." I shook my head, but not in doubt. It was all too possible in these days of Top Security. We might have sent out an advanceddesign spacecraft on a secret test flight. If something went wrong and its crew was lost, the ship would go on, drifting through space until it felh into the paws of creatures like these. Creatures like -- "Krool," Sandy murmured. "Who is he?" "Boss. Big Daddy. Father of us all. Like me, only twenty times more. He looks like -- " Drool went on to describe his father's appearance, and I didn't like what I heard at all. According to him, his sire was a cross between a sabre-toothed tiger and a giant multi-colored leopard. And he had no paternal affection for his son, because Drool was the runt of the litter. "My brothers and sisters are nordon't grow. Maybe not the right chromosomes, maybe no blue genes. Krool is very up-tight about it. So when he found the ship, he took me off with him. A long journey, but the charts told him how to go, and the handling was simple. You are still quite primitive, right?" "Let me get this straight," I said. "Your father brought you here in a ship. But if the crew was missing, how did you learn our language?" "The crew left much literature to read and study. What you call comic books." TThat explained his speech pattern. I wondered what else this alien had learned of our contemporary culture. But there were more important concerns right now. "Where is this ship?" "Krool took it back." "After he landed you here?" "Not landed. Dropped. Bad trip, man." IF It was beginning to sound like one to me. "He dropped you out of the ship into space?" "Only a few feet. Nobody saw us because of the air. Like it's a gas, man?" "Smog," I told him. And visualized the hovering space-craft, the gigantic creature at the controls, dropping this little creature down to land before the car in the street with no one the wiser. It could happen that way. Anything could happen twenty feet above our heads and we'd never know it because of the prevailing pollution. It transmogrified everything it touched. "How cruddy!" Sandy exclaimed. "Cutting out on you like that -- leaving you all alone in a strange place, not caring if you live or die -- " "He cares," Drool assured her. "I am not left to die. It is just that I am so weak and small. I can't come on like my brothers and sisters when they are sent to the big, important worlds. So Krool brings me to this earth because it will not be a problem for me." He nodded. "Krool says even a child Gan do it here." "Do what?" "My thing." "Which is?" "The same as my brothers and sisters do when they go to the better-class planets. They conquer." I turned to him. "Let's have that line again. You're really here to conquer earth. That's your plan?" "That's my bag. So take me to your leader." "Sure." I nodded. "And then what?" Drool smiled happily. "Then I merely blast him with my superdisintegratosonic -- oppsl" . He sat there, suddenly silent as his green face slowly paled to chartreuse. Sandy eyed him anxiously. "What's the matter?" "Krool gave me one. I know I had it when he lifted me out. I must have dropped it -- " "Your weapon?" Drool nodded, frowning. "It's probably still floating around somewhere in the smog -- almost weightless, you know -- " He broke off and peered at me anxiously. "But if I lost it, how do I -- ?" "You don't," I told him. "And that's final." I tromped on the gaspedal. "Let's go." "Where are you taking him?" Sandy's voice was apprehensive. It was a good question, but at the moment I didn't have any good answers. Police? The Orphan's Home? Lost And Found Department? nphe answer cam,e with clarion clarity. For as I started the motor, the car was suddenly filled with soaring sound. "Ooh!" Sandy squealed. "The Galloping Cruds!" And indeed it was. With ear-splitling precision, that popular hardrock group belted out their latest hit. As the guitars twanged and the drums echoed the beat, the voices proclaimed a moving message. "Vd like to turn you on, baby , But I can # t find the switch -- " Sandy cupped her hands and shouted, "Groovy! But turn it down a little." "Sorry," I yelled. "I don't have a radio in the car." Sandy stared at me. I stared at her. Then we both just stared at Drool. His wide mouth was wide open, And from it poured the sound of electric guitars, the thud of drums, the cacaphonic blending of five male voices. "Impossible!" I breathed and clapped my hand across Drool's mouth. The sound blurred instantly. I removed my hand quickly and Drool looked up. "What's with you, man?" he inquired. Sandy was still staring at him. "Was that really you singing?" "Yeah. Don't you dig it?" Sandy nodded. "But how on earth -- ?" "Not on earth." Drool grinned, "In the ship. There was an instrument -- stereo tape machine -- I listened while I read the comic books." "Wait a minute." I stopped the car again and faced him. "Are you trying to tell us you can imitate anything you hear recorded?" Drool shrugged. "Why not?" "You mean you can do all those voices at once, plus the guitars and drums?" "The sounds are very simple." "Your vocal cords must be tied in Boy Scout knots." Sandy raised her hand. "Wait a minute." Drool glanced at her and she continued. "Can you do the Zappers?" Drool opened his mouth, and the answer came. The Zappers -- two male minstrels, two female minstrels, and one interlocuter-type -- began to wail their Golden Record classic, Doobie-Do Or Doobie-Don't You? With full orchestral background. Then Drool did a pop ballad by Eddie Breech and the Clouts. After that, a small filet of soul music, followed by a children's recording of East Indian raga, featuring the soft tones of a baby sitar. "Wild!" Sandy shook her head. "I don't believe it!" "Hearing is believing," I told her. "What you've been listening to -- pouring right into our laps." I put my hand on Drool's shoulder. "Still want to conquer earth?" I asked. He nodded eagerly, then frowned. "But how -- ?" "Leave everything to us," I asIF sured him. "I think it can be arranged." IV r  s Jack the Ripper used to say, how's that for openers? Between the time Drool finished his concert and the time we parked in Sandy's driveway I had it all figured. Sandy started to follow my reasoning and ended up way ahead of me. "It's a big deal. We're going to have to use the others." "WHat others?" Sandy gestured up at the imposing mansion which loomed against the hilltop horizon. "I told you I didn't live here alone," she said. "Come along -- you'll see." We left the car and moved up the walk. I put my hand on Drool's shoulder. "Remember your instructions. Speak only when you're spoken to and let us do the talking. Play it cool." He nodded, and we entered. Then it was my turn to remember instructions. But I found it very difficult to keep my cool in the overheated atmosphere of Sandy's pad. Somehow I hadn't expected her to live in a twenty-room mansion, complete with marble floors, a fireplace in every bedroom, and an indoor swimming pool. "Don't you recognize where you are?" she murmured. "It's the old Riga Mortice place." Something clicked, and I nodded. I remembered Riga Mortice very well indeed. She had been a popular entertainer during my childhood, until illness forced her retirement No longer a bouncy, bubbling ingenue, she became a victim of alcohol, narcotics and diet-pills. But her fans never deserted her, and when she emerged to make a comeback on a singing tour, her popularity boomed again. Her first appearance, weak and wan and forty pounds lighter, had sparked something in the souls of a hundred who identified with her because of their own hypochondria. Since they themselves were on a daily diet of sleeping pills, pep pills, water pills, reducing pills, tranquilizers and laxatives, Riga Mortice became their heroine. They flocked to her concerts, not to hear her voice but merely to see if she'd manage to last out the performance. Whenever she cancelled an engagement or took an overdose of liquor, popular enthusiasm increased; some of the adoring lady fans even kept scrapbooks filled with clippings on her suicide attempts. Her appearance on crutches brought applause; her tour in a wheelchair was a smash hit, and when she finally began to sing to her public from a microphone built into an iron lung, she was Number One Box Office. IF UDiga Mortice," I murmured. "Of course! Whatever hap pened to her?" "Something terrible," Sandy sighed. "She got healthy." I shook my head. "Sad, isn't it? Here was a gal who had everything -- neurasthenia, self-destructive tendencies, a manic-depressive psychosis -- what a shame to lose all that talent!" "She lost this house, too," Sandy explained. "That's when we moved in." "We?" "I and the others." Sandy was leading Drool and me along an imposing corridor panelled in solid mahogany from floor to thirty-foot ceiling. "But how can you afford it?" "Because we're all on unemployment compensation. There's six of us here -- that is, until we lost one of our tenants yesterday. He got a job and moved into a one-room furnished apartment. Now he can't afford to stay here." "But isn't he making more money -- ?" "Look. His job only pays him a hundred and fifty a week. We each get seventy-five dollars in compensation." "I don't understand." "Our seventy-five is net, tax free. But after this poor guy pays commission to his agent, and deductions are taken from his check for income tax, surtax, social security, state disability insurance and all the rest, he winds up with less bread than we have." I was beginning to get the picture. Six times seventy-five is lour hundred and fifty dollars a week -- more than enough to pay the rent on . even such a palatial pad as this one. And that's why Sandy had scouted the Unemployment Office; she needed to replace the sixth tenant with a new resident, such as me. Sandy smiled at me. "How about that?" she inquired, gesturing at the sweep and thrust of the threestory staircase which rose at the end of the hall. "Where else eould you find such a glad pad for seventy-five per, including food, liquor and gas for your wheels?" I glanced around. "Something's missing, though. I don't see any chairs and tables." "Oh, that!" She made a gesture of dismissal. "We don't have any yet. But we're planning to buy some period furniture -- on monthly payments, of course. Meanwhile, we just make do." She steered Drool and me toward an ornate double door. "But come on and meet the others." Hphe others were gathered ter the cocktail hour at the drained indoor swimming pool. Seated inside it, with their bottoms touching bottom, they gave us glasses and greetings. Seldom have I seen such a collection of disparate types, but as Sandy made the introductions I began to sense that they were desperate types as well. All of them had one thing in common -- they were bom losers. Sandy led me to a spade-bearded, scholarly-looking gentleman whose name was Mr. Barf. Regarding me mournfully, he started to rise and I waved him back. "Please don't get up on my account," I told him. Barf broke into a sudden smile. "Thank you. I prefer it here at the bottom of the pool." "Mr. Barf is our philosopher," Sandy explained. "He once tried to drown himself in Walden Pond." "Unsuccessfully, I fear," Barf sighed. "Next time I hope to be more Thoreau about it" The wan little man beside him scowled at me. "What did you mean by that 'on my account' crack?" he demanded suspiciously. "Don't mind Mr. Emia," Sandy whispered. "He's very sensitive about such things. He used to be the cashier in a blood-bank, but they fired him for embezzlement." Luke Emia glowered at me but accepted my hand in greeting Sandy moved with me to a mopheaded young man whose psychedelic jacket was covered with buttons, although he still looked as if he didn't have all of his own. "Mr. Grafitti," she announced. "He writes a column ior one of the underground newspapers." "Pleased to meet you." " -- ," said Grafitti, pleasantly. Warmed by his greeting, I moved on to the next tenant. This young man, introduced to me simply as Swinger, was so ragged, filthy and unkempt that I automatically pegged him as a musician. Such proved to be the case. He had once been part of a recording group, he told me, until he suffered a nasty shock -- when his electriconic harmonica had short-circuited on a high note and blown all the caps off his teeth. Since that time, apparently, he'd nursed a grudge against aU performers including singers, and carried on an active crusade against them. "I just got busted," he concluded mournfully. "Not again?" Sandy sighed. "What happened?" "Well, I read where Tony Bennett was opening at a club here in town, and you know what that means. Last night I went down there, and when he came on and started singing I Lost My Heart In San Francisco , I walked up on the stage and handed him one. It was only a beef-heart, of course, but the fuzz hauled me in anyway." Shaking her head in commiseration, Sandy led me to the last member of the gathering, a dapper balding man who greeted me with a firm handclasp. IF "Ko tic's the name," he told me. "But you can call me Cy." I blinked in sudden recognition. "Not the Drive-In Psychiatrist? The one who used to set up his couch in the parking lot over in Beverly Hills?," "Five couches," he announced proudly. "A regular open-air clinic." His smile faded. "But I got out of the racket. It is a racket, you know. Head-shrinkers don't do you any good -- the thing to do is get your head Sanforized. I retired to work out my new theories." D uring this exchange, Drool had been standing patiently and silently at my side. Now Mr. Kotic eyed him speculatively. "Who's your sickie friend?" he inquired. "He's not sick," Sandy declared. "Well, he's too short to be the Jolly Green Giant," Kotic muttered. "And you must admit he is green around the gills. In fact, during my entire professional career I've never seen anyone look greener. Ergo, he must be ill. Note the hyperthyroid bulge of his eyes, the reddish pupils, the nasal malformation and the labial deformity. I've been a psychiatrist too long not to recognize a real ding-a-ling when I see one." I gave Sandy a quick glance and she picked up her cue. "That's no way to talk about my cousin," she retorted. "Cousin?" Barf's eyebrows rose. "That's right. He's a hippy from San Francisco," he murmured. "Haight-Ashbury." Luke Emia rose and approached him curiously. "What's your name, man?" Drool had learned his answers well. "Sneed Hearn," he said. " I " sneered Grafitti. "You can say that again," muttered the Swinger. "Like, I mean all us old W.C. Fields fans know that 'Sneed Hearn' is a name he made up and used in The Old Fashioned Way" I paled. Stupid of me not to remember that today's In Group were old film buffs. "All right," Swinger persisted. "Lay it on us, man. Who is this creep?" Cy Kotic moved closer to the hapless Drool, who shrank from his professional scrutiny. "I can't identify the syndrome yet," the psychiatrist muttered. "But I am getting a definite gut reaction from him. That is to say, he's making me sick at my stomach." " -- ?" Grafitti inquired. "A good question." Barf joined the group clustered around Drool and nodded philosophically. Sandy gave me a helpless look, and I stepped forward. "All right," I said. "Guess there's no sense trying to conceal the truth from you. It would have to come out sooner or later." "Joel" Sandy's voice sounded an alarm. "I know what I'm doing," I assured her. "Come on, everybody drink up and I'll plug you in." And that, of course, was exactly the procedure. They passed the drinks, and I passed the word. Half an hour later they were falling out of their trees as Drool's open mouth emitted a stereophonic version of the latest protest-song recorded by that group of militant young rebels known as Tarzan and All the Apes. By the time he closed his mouth, theirs were hanging open. "Well?" I murmured. "How did that grab you? Think he can conquer the world now?" " I " said Grafitti. Which just about summed it up. V Qandy sent out for some Chin ese food from Pu King's, and we huddled over the meal discussing the deal. Grafitti's reaction was shared by most of the others. Only Barf seemed to have reservations. "I don't know," he mused. "This may not be the most propitious time for such a project. After all, Mars is in conjunction with Uranus -- " "Watch your language," Sandy cautioned him. Then to me: "Mr. Barf is not only a philosopher, he's an astrologer." "That's his problem," I told her, "My horoscope tells me not to put any faith in astrology." "I don't know anything about astrology," declared Swinger, his words filtering through a mouthful of fried rice. "But with that voice, we can't miss. And the way he does all of that instrumental accompaniment too -- man, it's something else!" Drool blushed a deeper shade viridan at the compliment and lowered his head modestly over the sweet-and-sour pork. I waved a forkful of chow-mein at the gathering. "The way I see it, we've got a winning team. As Swinger says, Drool has a voice that doesn't quit He can sing anything, in any style, imitating any group and any orchestration or accompaniment. But he's got something else that's equally important." "And what's that?" Luke Emia inquired. "What else has he got?" "The uglies." I jabbed my fork in Drool's direction. "Look at him -- did you ever see a more repulsive, disgusting specimen in your life?" Drool popped his eyes at me, and I quickly shook my head. "I'm not putting you down," I said, hastily. "This is your most important asset." "I don't get it," Sandy said. W "You will, if you stop and think. What makes one hard rock group more popular than another today? It can't be the difference in musical arrangements, because they all use the same beat or off-beat revved up to Total Sound, or Total Sound Effects. It can't be variations in singing style, because they all have the same delivery -- nobody understands the words. Even the soloist soul-singers and the protest groups sound basically alike, snarling about love or crooning about hate. So what's that extra ingredient which makes a star?" "Appearance?" Swinger ventured. I swallowed my chow-mein and nodded. "Exactly! Years ago it was enough for a nice-looking kid to come out on the stage and make anguished faces while he sang. Then it became necessary for him to contort his body in spastic spasms in order to make a pleasing impression on the audience -- since he sounded as if he was having a fit, he might as well look like he was, too. "But as audiences grew mofe sophisticated, that wasn't enough any more. Singers started to dress in weirdo outfits. Wild colors and sequins at one extreme, rags and blue-jeans at the other -- it didn't matter which, as long as the pants were tight enough. "Then came the real revolution. Not just the change in clothe? but the change in bodies. First we had sideburns, then long hair, then the bushy mop. The beards and mustaches followed -- mostly amongst the males. Now we have dark glasses, granny glasses, tattooing, psychedelic makeup, the works. The ugliest-looking singers, making the ugliest sounds and using the ugliest words, make the most beautiful dollars." C y Kotic nodded in emphatic agreement. "He tells it like it is," he declared. "Today's singing star must give the audience the whole sado-masochistic mystique, and no mistake. Oral aggression in the words, revolt against the Establishment in the clothing -- that takes care of the latent hostility. And for the self-pitying component, that finds its expression in the downbeat, beat-up look. "I see great possibilities here. Because our little friend is probably the weirdest-looking freak-out yet. Consider his assets! He's noseless, almost bald, built like a oneman disaster area, and best of all, he's green!" Cy Kotic smiled at Drool admiringly. "I don't want you to get a big head over this, but as a practicing psychiatrist it is my professional opinion that you're the most miserable-looking yutz I've ever encountered." It was my turn to rise and step forward. "You see? With Drool's natural gifts of voice and appearance he can't miss. All he needs is the proper management team behind him. And that's where we ah come in." "We do?" Luke Emia muttered. "Of course. Every star must have an entourage, and we're it. Sandty, here, will handle the secretarial duties. Mr. Emia, with his banking experience, is a natural for treasurer. Swinger, we'll need you for music and arrangements." Grafitti cleared his throat " ?" he ventured. "Songs are no good without lyrics," I reminded him. "And with your background in the underground press, you know all the right wrong words. Consider yourself a lyricist." " ," said Grafitti, gratefully. I turned my attention to Cy Kotic. "You, of course, will be invaluable as our psychological consultant in public relations. Handle our ads, our presentation format And I, naturally, am going to function as agent and business manager. And that's the wrap-up, kiddies." Mr. Barf cleared hut throat timidly. "What about me?" "Wdl," I hedged. "Maybe we can use some astrological predictions along the way. Advice from the stars to a star, that sort of thing." 'Tve got another suggestion." Surprisingly enough, it was Sandy who spoke. "Mr. Barf here knows a great deal about the World and its ways. After all, he's a philosopher." Barf nodded. "That's why I tried to kill myself," he agreed. Sandy moved to Drool and placed her hand on his shoulder. "You say all you know about earth is what you learned from listening to the radio and reading comic books." "Right," Drool conceded. "Then there you have it," Sandy told me. "Mr. Barf can be Drool's teacher. Let him educate Drool, broaden his knowledge, expand his horizons -- " "Okay," I said. "Just as long as he doesn't teach him so much that he'll want to drown himself." "Have no fear," Barf said. "The swimming pool is empty." And it was, because we all climbed up and crowded our way into the hall, glasses held high. Sandy refilled them quickly. "A toast, then," I proposed. "A toast to that new singing sensation of the nation -- that multi-voiced marvel, star of radio, television, motion pictures, recording artiste and just plain little old multi-millionaire -- Sneed Hearn I " We gulped our drinks. "That does it," I declared. "And now, beddy-bye for everybody. Got a big day scheduled for tomorrow." Drool glanced at me. "Where are we going?" IF "To launch your career," I answered. "Bright and early, we're off to Groovyland." VI Tt was early when we started, but not bright. As the car rolled down the ramp and inched itself into the morning traffic on the freeway, I switched on the fog-lights. It was the only way to go, here in the yellowish, billowing murk that shrouded our bumper-to-bumper crawl. Drool sat beside me. I glanced past him at Sandy. She sat utterly still, eyes closed in concentration. "Something wrong?" Sandy shook her head. "Just doing my yoga. The stop-breathing exercises. It's the only way to cope with the smog." Drool took a deep breath. "I like this air," he announced. "It reminds me of home. The -- what do you call it? -- smog is very nourishing." "That reminds me of something," I said. "You didn't touch your food last night." "I don't have to eat," Drool announced. "All I need is this." And he took another deep breath. "Well, I do." Sandy glanced at the torturous tangle of the interchange. "When we get out of this mess, let's have some breakfast." We were well past Pomona before the traffic thinned and we pulled off onto the highway leading to our destination. "Breakfast it is," I said. "Let's try this place." The El Ulcero was a typical roadside restaurant, very spic and Spanish. As Sandy concluded ordering, I whispered to the waiter. "Where's the Juan?" Drool accompanied me, although he had no need to. I eyed him curiously. He didn't eat and last night he hadn't slept -- just sat beside me as I curled up in the sleepingbag Sandy gave me. Apparently his physiological needs were different from ours. But at the moment it was the difference in his appearance that worried me. The waiter had stared at him suspiciously, and I began to wish that I'd told Drool to stay in the car. But I couldn't hide him away forever, and we rejoined Sandy at the table. Immediately the waiter was at our side. "The leetle boy," he murmured. "He ees not eating." "Not hungry," I said, curtly. "Mus' be seeck," the waiter observed. "Behold of the face. Ees very green, no?" "Yes," I challenged. "What's the matter, haven't you ever seen a green face before?" "Only after eating here," the waiter shrugged. He stepped up to Drool. "Observe of the hands. They also are green." "Of course," I told him, "The kid's a natural-born gardener. Haven't you heard of a green thumb?" N Nudging Sandy, I whispered, "Let's get out of here." We rose, paid the check and fled. The waiter stared after us, muttering to himself. "Got to watch it," I told my companions as we climbed back into the car. "Remember, when we get to Groovyland, I do all the talking." "What is this Groovyland?" Drool demanded. "You'll see." TT Te moved through the tourist   traffic and approached the glittering gates at a brisk crawl while I pondered his question. Once upon a time we were a nation of happy voyeurs . "Visuallyoriented by the theatre, motion pictures and television, we were content to move through life as spectators, even at sporting events. We went to zoos, museums, aquariums. But the more we saw, the more jaded we became, and the more we resented the barriers. The footlights barred us from the stage, movies and television separated us from events by a screen, the bars kept us from the zoo animals, the museum exhibits and the fish in the aquariums were under glass, and the sporting events took place in stadia a half-mile away from our reserved seats. Everyone wants a seat on the fifty-yard line. At a parade, the biggest thrill is to be up close. As we got up tighter in our daily lives, the need to get up closer in our entertainment-escapes increased. where you can actually walk down the reconstructed street of a preRevolutionary village. Came planetariums where the stars are still an illusion -- but they surround you on all sides. Came Marineland where the fish leap out of the water and the seals and dolphins perform close enough to splash you. Came Disneyland, with its trips and happenings. Trips and happenings . Perhaps that's the answer. The need to see combined with the need to be. To make viewing a personal experience, to momentarily enjoy a feeling of actual participation. In this regimented, automated, digit-dialling, zip-coded impersonal world where the tedium is the message, we're cut off from close contact with reality. So out of artifice, we construct our own. Drugs for trips, happenings for audience involvement. But drugs are dangerous and happenings demanding. Hence Disneyland, with its safe and easy surrogates -- synthetic trips to synthetic worlds,, happenIF ings where nothing really happens. That's a lot. But Groovyland is the most. "The most!" I repeated to Drool, guiding him through the turnstile and laying out # for three admissions. "Why lay out all the loot?" Sandy asked. "Don't worry, we'll be rolling in it right after we set our deal here. But first I want to show Drool around a little. He ought to know what he's getting into -- it's part of his education." We got into plenty, but I don't know how educational it was to our green-faced guest. Psycholand he didn't dig at all. The idea of entering a fake mental hospital as a make-believe patient and getting a free personality-profile and a ten-minute analysis from a plastic psychiatrist while lying on a plastic couch just didn't do anything for him. He wouldn't try on a straitjacket or take an I.Q. test, nor was he interested in the computerized dating-rating. Sandy tried her best. "Why don't you sit down and fill out the questions on this card?" she coaxed. "What for?" "The machine will process your answers and indicate your best choice for a marriage partner. It's what we call a computer match." Drool shrugged. "Who wants to marry a computer?" he asked. T took him out of there fast and led him into Grislyland. i lie results here were hardly more encouraging. The medieval torture devices left him cold; even the strappado didn't give him a boot. Nor did he care for the Chamber of Horrors with its wax-figure criminals and its replicas of television comedians. "Try Heroland," Sandy suggested, sensing Drool's lack of interest. "He should get some jollies there." I nodded. "Wait until he sees George Washington," I said. Quickly we entered Heroland and I led Drool proudly over to the little auditorium where, as I remembered, every fifteen minutes or so a remarkable event took place. Before the assembled audience an amazingly clever animated figure of the Father of our Country rose from a chair and walked to center stage, there to deliver Washington's Second Inaugural Address. "This you've got to hearl" I told Drool, happily. But when we reached the auditorium we found it deserted; the stage itself was bare. A bored attendant was sweeping the floor near the doorway and I collared him. "What gives?" I inquired. "Where is Washington?" "Took him away yesterday," the attendant informed me. "What a shame!" I glanced at Drool. "I wanted you to see it -- the most lifelike automaton you could ever imagine -- " "Too lifelike" the attendant volunteered. "That's why they took him away." "What do you mean?" "Hear tell he was sold to a bunch of politicians. The way election campaigns are going nowadays, they figure to put this dummy on television, let him give his speech, and run him for governor." "Might have a chance at that," I agreed. "Considering some of the speeches I've (heard other dummies make. After a #, he's got a good name and a familiar face. This is what they buy." "Not those lemon-faced voters in Orange County," Sandy reminded me. "The minute they remember that Washington had something to do with the Constitution, they'll vote against him. He's too left-wing for them." She had a point there. But I was rapidly losing points with Drool. There was just one possible way left to hook his attention, and I decided to take it. I dragged him over to Bodyland. Now all of the other lands in Groovyland are housed in separate buildings. Bodyland is different -- because Bodyland is the building. Drool's eyes bugged when he saw it, and frankly, I don't blame him. Even though this wasn't my first visit here, my eyes protruded. Picture a naked woman three hundred feet tall and proportionately proportioned, tipped over so that die is lying on her stomach. Fluorescent lights flash from her staring eyes as you approach her open mouth, and the lights blind you. Yet you must approach, because that's how you enter Bodyland -- through her mouth. "Step over the lower incisors," I told Drool. "Then sit on her tongue and we'll slide down her throat." Sandy glanced across at me over Drool's head and winked. It was unnecessary; I could already sense his kindled interest. 'Together we seated ourselves on  the pink, plushy surface of the tongue. Somewhere deep inside the inner recesses of the giant figure, a motor began to hum. Slowly the tongue elevated at an angle, propelling us into the throat cavity beyond. "Duck your head," I cautioned. "We're coming to the tonsils!" ly illuminated, and we passed them en route to the tunneling throat. It received us as we shot off the tongue and shot, at a steeper angle, along a neon-lit esophagus. Then we landed in the vast, hollow cavern of the stomach, its well-lighted lining disclosing a network of passages on every side and overhead. Drool glanced around in open curiosity. IF "Want to see the lungs?" I inquired. He nodded quickly. "Oh, yes. Everything." He turned to Sandy. "I never realized there was so much inside you." "I've got a lot of guts, if that's what you mean." But Sandy wasn't displeased by the observation. Quickly we led Drool on a conducted tour of the human anatomy -- through the lungs, along the aorta into the ventricles, past the bronchia, then doubled back along a maze of veins. Pausing to wait for arterial traffic, I branched off into the liver, spleen and kidneys. Everything was well lit, and there were little signs on the walls of each organ or passage to chart our route. "Remarkable, isn't it?" Drool beamed at me happily. "You're getting the real inside story," I assured him. "This exhibit is endorsed by the Secretary of the Interior." With plastic bone-structure and muscle-sheathing gleaming on all sides, we wound our way through the labyrinthine intricacies of canals, ducts and sinus cavities until we were confronted with another corridor, darker and longer than the others. Sandy peered into it. "What's this?" she queried. "One of the canals?" "Alimentary, my dear Watson," I said. Grasping her wrist, I started forward. "Join, hands now, because we're going to loop the loop a few times, and we'll need some intestinal traction." "Isn't there another way to go?." For answer I pointed up at one of the small, neatly lettered signs -- Please Exit Thru Rear . Climbing, clambering, then crawling, we did just that and finally emerged again amidst Groovyland's vortex of vacationing visitors. "Satisfied?" I asked Drool. He nodded. "It was fascinating. Next time we must go to the head -- " "They don't have one in there," I informed him, then realized what he was referring to. "Yes, we'll do that," I amended quickly. "But right now we've got another head to visit. The head of this enterprise -- Sylvester Schlock." Qylvester Schlock rose from be hind his desk and threw his cigar at me. "How dare you?" he spluttered. "How dare you come to me with a proposition like this?" I shrugged with outward calm, but inwardly I echoed the question to myself. Approaching this fabulous showman had not been easy. For I, like all the world, knew the Schlock story. IF Sylvester Schlock was the most controversial figure in the world of show biz. His admirers said he was a self-made man. His enemies agreed, but pointed out that this merely indicated . what you got when you used cheap labor. His boosters stated that Schlock had been bom in a log cabin. His detractors reminded you that the log cabin had been built atop his father's penthouse, where that mulcreate a rural atmosphere. It is true, as Schlock's friends state, that he worked his way through school. But it is also true, as enemies assert, that he had to do so because his father disowned him, and he had worked his way through medical college as a corpse-washer in a Forest Laundromat... In any case, Sylvester Schlock graduated and began his practice as a physician. His supporters remind you that he gained a brilliant reputation as a proctologist. His foes assert that the reason he gave up his spe cialty is because he could never identify his patients when they came face to face with him, and he took a dim view of humanity. Be that as it may, Schlock retired to an area east of Los Angeles, where he owned a thousand acres of barren desert land, and it was here that Groovyland was bom. At first he operated on the lowest level of entertainment -- the roadside tourist trap. Crude signposts along the highway urged motorists to Visit The Monster Museum! and Feed The Ravenous Reptiles! The monster museum turned out to be a small snake-pit Schlock stocked the pit with specimens he found wriggling over his own property, and the ravenous reptiles were merely toads or gecko lizards. But enough cars stopped and enough quarters poured in to enable Schlock to expand. He added a tiny restaurant to his enterprise. Here, his champions say, be attracted a growing clientele because of the unusual flavor of his 'burgers. His opponents admit the flavor was unusual, but hint he used the same source of supply for his food as he did for stocking his snake-pit. Snakeburgers or no, Schlock did have the only eatery in all that stretch of dreary desert -- to say nothing of the only restrooms. To say that Groovyland was founded on the receipts from a public pay-toilet would be a vast oversimplification, but it is true that Schlock always gave the customers what they wanted. He next incorporated an amusement park and carnival, not hesitating to use the lowest carny attractions. And it was here that his unusual genius for entertainment first came into play. Noting that people would pay money for almost anything -- even to see a geek bite the head off a chicken -- Schlock added refinements. On Thanksgiving Day he advertised that his geek would bite the head off a turkey. And before long, just for the kiddies, he had a junior geek who bit the heads off canaries. S uccess breeds success, and from that point on Sylvester Schlock soared. He obtained financing and started Groovyland with its first major attraction -- a typically phony frontier town which he called Tombstone Territory. It had the usual livery stables and saloons for atmosphere, plus Central Casting cowboys, but Schlock added an extra. No doubt harking back to his pre-med days, he built a Boot Hill cemetery plot, with genuine tombstones. Here, driving around in the comfort of a Rent-a-Hearse, one could follow the progress of a daily western drama; see an outlaw apprehended for rustling cattle, watch his twominute trial, attend the subsequent hanging (in which a very skilled stunt-man literally risked his neck at every performance) and then observe the digging of a grave and the burial of the outlaw as a grand finale. Perhaps this is the point where Schlock really made his start. Certainly it was a stroke of sheer genius when he altered the program to include audience participation. Now, for a given fee, one could purchase tickets to join a posse and ride after the outlaw. Another ticket entitled a customer to serve on the jury during the trial. For a considerable extra sum, some lucky member of the audience could play executioner during the hanging. And the biggest kick -- at the largest price, of course -- was to join the burial party and help dig the grave in which the outlaw was interred. Schlock had fathomed the secret at last, and now there was no stopping him. Within the next decade, Groovyland rose from the dusty desert like the pleasure dome of Kublai Khan. Came Monkeyland , where you put on the ape-suit and swung through the branches of the artificial trees; came all the other lands, plus facilities for weddings, christenings, conventions, bar mitz vahs and actual burials in what was somewhat painfully described as a "real, live cemetery" adjoining the private landing-field. Finally, came The Hall of the Mountain King -- a gigantic openair cavern, with rocky walls moulded of genuine papier-mache , in which outdoor concerts were held every weekend. Here the top singing stars performed, the hit combos, the Name Attractions. A booking at Groovyland could make a national reputation overnight and pave the way for television, a spot in Vegas, films, recordings, the works. So it was here, IF naturally, that I determined to launch the career of the entity Fd introduced to Schlock as Sneed Hearn. No wonder he'd hurled his cigar at me. But now, as I stared into Sylvester Schlock's heated countenance, I came on cool. "He's a great singer," I said softly. "Wait until you hear him." "This is a singer?" Schlock stared scornfully at Drool. "I can't even stand the sight of him, let alone the sound." "What's wrong with his looks?" Sandy inquired. "He's green l" Schlock lifted his arms in an imploring gesture. "Do you think for a moment I'm going to put my audience at the mercy of some green kid?" T his, as we say in the industry, was my cue -- and Drool's. I signaled, he stepped forward, he opened his mouth. Out came a perfect reproduction of that smash singsational group, Vermin and the Varmints. Schlock reached for another cigar, but he didn't throw it. He didn't even light it, just sat wideeyed and open-eared as Drool poured it on. Without pausing for breath. Drool launched into a second selection. This one, with an oriental beat, was Yogi and the Yo-Yos punching out What Makes Swami Run? Drool was just about ready id launch an imitation of Charlie Horse and the Bruised Tendons when Schlock's dgar levelled in imperial command. "Stop!" he shouted. "Enough, already!" I noticed that the hand holding the cigar was shaking. So was Schlock's head. "I don't know how you do it, young man," he jproaned, "but never in my life have I heard anything so atrocious, so abominable, so positively disgusting! In other words, you sound exactly like those groups you're imitating. And if it's bad enough few me, it's good enough for the audience." Pointing his Havana Xmperfecto at me, Schlock got down to business. "Our next big concert is scheduled for a week from Saturday. What do you say to a spot for your boy at three G's?" I shrugged. "Forget it." Sandy gave me a glance that was strictly distress merchandise, but I ignored her. "Okay, five G's but that's my top quote, and I'll want repeat options on -- " "No," I said. "But you can't get any more the first time out, not even from the Sullivan Show -- " "No," I repeated. "We don't want any money." Now both Sandy and Schlock were sending out distress signals. I smiled at them happily. "We'll let our boy perform for you absolutely free of charge," I told him. "But on one condition." "Name it." "He's not going to have a spot in your concert a week from Saturday. He is the concert." "The whole show, all by himself?" Schlock did something new with the cigar; he swallowed it. "What's the matter, don't you think it's possible? You heard him." "But -- " I brushed objections aside. "He can take the place of any solo singer, any singing group, any combination of instruments and instrumentalists. What more do you need?" "I know," Schlock conceded. "It's just that a one-man concert is practically unheard of. Even the so-called one-man shows are usually backed up by a supporting act to open the bill." "My boy supports himself," I said. "And if you'll give him a chance, he'll support you, too. This act is going to sell a lot of tickets." "After they've heard him and the word gets around," Schlock agreed. "But this first appearance, he's an unknown quantity. I can't advertise just Sneed Hearn in a one-man performance." "Then bill him as a group," I said. "After all, he is a group when he opens his mouth, isn't he? Call him -- oh, anything -- " Inspiration gleamed in Sylvester Schlock's flashing eyes. "Sneed Hearn and his Hearnias!" he shouted. I gripped his hand. "Okay, we have a firm deal." And thus, a star was bom. 'T'he ride back to Los Angeles I was something of a triumph. "That was a stroke of genius, letting him go on for free the first time," Sandy conceded. "After one exposure, you can name your own price. Joe, you're a genius." It is my policy never to contradict a lady, so I just nodded silently. But deep within myself I could feel the surge of supreme confidence. I knew now that nothing was beyond me; I could achieve the seemingly impossible. Right then and there I resolved to put my belief to the final test. The next time I stopped for a traffic light ou the Strip and a hippie came up to sell me a copy of The Free Press, I would sell him a copy of The Christian Science Monitor. My mood was heightened when we goi.back to the house and Sandy told the waiting group what had happened. "Incredible!" Luke Emia gasped. "Wait 'til they hear him!" "They'll go outta their skulls," Swinger predicted. " I " agreed Grafitti. IF I accepted the accolades with due modesty. After dinner I wandered out on the patio behind the house to compose myself and my thoughts. This was going to be a hectic week, and I had to plan a schedule. To my surprise, I found Drool standing there at the edge of the hilltop, staring up at the smog as though he could actually see the stars beyond. His face was expressionless. I moved up beside him. "What's the matter?" "Nothing." "Then cheer up. You're on your way. You heard what Schlock said -- with your looks and your voice you can't missl" Drool blinked at me. "I still don't see how I'm going to take over the world this way." "Look," I said. "It's all a matter of who has the clout, and in this world money is power. Your voice will make more money than anyone has ever dreamed of earning. With it you can buy anything you want -- " "But I don't want anything for myself. I'm only here to follow orders. And my orders are to conquer. If I just had my own little superdisintcgratosonic weapon -- " "This is your weapon." I pointed at his throat. "And for the moment, I'm your commanding officer. So forward march!" Luke Emia stepped forth from the shadows. "What's this about g weapon?" he asked. I filled him in on Drool's story. "Mean to tell me you haven't investigated any further?" Luke gestured excitedly. "If Drool dropped this gizmo of his when he fell, it must have landed around here somewhere, just as he did. For all we know, it could be lying out in the street." "Forget it," I said. "Who needs weapons?" "We do! Why, if this thing has half the power he says it does, we're wasting our time. We could sell a copy to the government for "Quit talking like a business man," I told him. But Luke was carried away with his own vision. "Then we could turn around and sell another copy to the enemy powers for more billions." "Quit talking like a big business man," I sighed. "I still think you're making a mistake -- " I shook my head. "I'm making a star. From now on, we're all going to be concentrating on that concert. Beckoning to Drool, I moved toward the house. "Time to hit the sack," I said. And we djd. Despite Drool's policy of letting sleeping-bags Be, he rested beside me all night. X#hen morning came, we went to   work. And that's the story of the next ten days -- work and more work. Grafitti wrote lyrics. Swinger did arrangements. With them I coached Drool on proper styles of delivery; how to slur his pronunciation and moan words incoherently, where to go off-key, and all the other techniques of today's top vocalists. Luke Emia and Sandy were kept busy loading platters on the stereo as Drool listened to the groups he'd be imitating -- the Zappers, the Calamity Howlers, Rock Bottom and the Living Ends, and all the other great artists. "You're a slave-driver," Cy Kotic complained. "I don't even have time to listen to the news any more. Because of you, I've missed two declarations of war, an epidemic, four riots, six mass-murders and nine tax increases. If I can't keep up with these normal, every-day events, how can I stay in touch ivith reality?" Only Barf seemed satisfied with the schedule. He'd rearranged his habits so that he now slept all day and stayed awake all night. It was then, while the rest of us retired to our sleeping-bags, that he proceeded with his educational activities. He and Drool spent those nocturnal hours in Barf's room upstairs where the philosopher lived in a fashion once popular in square circles. I'd never been invited to that room, but I know it contained books, a writing desk, and even an old monophonic record-player. It was the sound of the latter which aroused me one midnight just at a time when I was about to entice Sandy over to my sleepingbag to discuss the territorial imperative. "What's that?" I muttered, jumping up and taking the stairs two at a time. As I burst into Barf's room the sound ceased. Drool was seated on the floor amidst a welter of records and books. Barf stood at the recordplayer, removing a disc. "What were you playing just now?" I demanded. Barf put the platter away. "Just a recording from my own collection." "Stop wasting Drool's time. You're supposed to be teaching him something worthwhile." "But he is." Drool indicated the volumes stacked up beside him on the floor. "He's taught me a great deal about life in your world. We've been going through the encyclopedia, slowly. Three volumes a night -- " "Three volumes?" "Drool is a very fast reader," Barf explained. "And a very fast listener, too. I answer questions as he goes along." "What sort of questions?" I inquired. "Well, we're up to the letter P" Drool said. "So we've been discusIF sing pathology and psychosis and poverty and plagues and pollution and population-explosion and prejudice and Pop Art -- " He nodded reassuringly. "I'm beginning to understand how you people live." "I've just been discussing public opinion polls," Barf explained. "For example, here's one of the latest -- a poll taken to determine whether or not people believe in polls -- " "Who needs it?" I glanced disapprovingly at the book-shelves lining the walls. "You think books are obsolete?" Drool asked, eagerly. "So does Marshall McLuhan. In fact, he wrote a book about it." I gripped Drool's shoulder and pulled him to his feet. "Come on," I murmured. "You're going downstairs with me." Barf looked confused. "Don't you approve of my educational methods?" T shook my head. "Teach him the things he must know when he's rich and successful. How to handle a sports-car with a right-hand drive, how to order a hamburger from a French menu, how to set up a taxfree foundation. That's what he needs to learn -- the practical stuffl With only a few days left before the concert, I don't want his mind cluttered up with a lot of useless knowledge. Facts will only confuse him." Barf gestured tentatively. "Are you quite sure this is what you want?" he said quietly. "In a world of chaos, can't you think of any meaningful contribution besides more chaos?" "People want to get zonked," I told him. "That's what's happening, baby. You go with whatever turns you on." "Maybe it's time to turn off," Barf mused. "Before we reach a point of no return, where sheer sensory impact loses meaning. We have no music any more -- just the beat. Our abstract art is nothing but a series of Rorschach tests. When artists cease to communicate with their audiences, the ability to communicate is soon lost and all that matters is subjective sensation, drug-induced. We have sold our birthright for a mess of pot." "End of lecture," I snapped, and dragged Drool downstairs. "But I like talking to him," Drool protested. "He's even taught me about warfare and strategy. Divide and conquer. To the victor belongs the spoils. Don't fire until you see the whites of their eyes. Oh, if I only had my superdisintegratosonic weapon now -- I could take over in no time!" "You take over Saturday," I reminded. "By making a success of the concert. And until then, I'm calling the shots." The remaining days" before the performance blended into a hyperactive blur. Rehearsals and lastminute preparations occupied every waking moment and even invaded my dreams. If I'd taken time to reflect I probably would have kept a closer watch on my companions, but it didn't occur to me. I was only vaguely aware that Luke Emia absented himself from the house at regular intervals, and that Barf and Drool exchanged muttered conversations in the comer whenever they met. But I was too busy to check up. I spent hours on the horn with Sylvester Schlock, going over the publicity and promotion for the concert, and additional hours with Swinger, Grafitti and Sandy, planning the numbers to use in the program itself. By Friday evening I was a basket case. "Tranquilizers don't help any more," I told Cy Kotic. "You were a doctor once. Can't you do something to calm me down? Isn't there some kind of operation -- a pre-frontal lobotomy -- ?" "This you need like a hole in the head," he replied. "Now just relax. Tomorrow at this time it will all be forgotten. That's your answer, the same answer I give all my patients. Just remember to forget" It sounded like a great notion, and somehow it got me through the final night. Late that evening I wandered out on the patio with Drool and Sandy. The view was breath-taking. So was the smog. "Look!" Sandy gestured to the east. "Those lights, way off in the distance -- isn't that Groovyland?" "It's all Groovyland," I told her. "The whole world." Drool nodded excitedly. "Just think -- like tomorrow I'm going to conquer it!" "Sure," I said, smiling at Sandy. I wasn't worried about Drool and his predictions. As far as I was concerned, all this talk about conquest was just his schtick. The only trouble with schticks , of course, is that sometimes you wind up with the short end... IX nphey came to Groovyland on i Saturday night. They came by Cadillac and by pick-up truck, by station-wagon and by motorcycle, by sleek and shiny sports-car and by broken down bus. They tangled the traffic on the freeway, turning the air blue with exhaust fumes and with curses. They jammed the parkinglot, jockeying for position as they smashed one another's fenders. They glowered and glared, swore and snarled, then pushed and pummeled their way into the lines before the ticket-windows. Twenty thousand of them came, sweating and squirming and shrieking their IF way into their seats. And why not? After all, they came here to have fun. We came for business; Luke Emia in his car, Barf, Swinger, Grafitti land Cy Kotic in a Volkswagen. Sandy and Drool rode with me. Originally I'd intended to bring them all, but Luke pointed out the advantages of keeping extra transportation handy. "Suppose we need to make a fast get-away after the concert," he said. "I don't think you're a bit funny," Sandy told him. But in the end, we split up and drove our separate ways. While the others joined the audience in the Hall of the Mountain King, Sandy and I conducted Drool backstage. "Up tight?" Sandy whispered to him. Drool shook his head and grinned. "Under control." And why not? He didn't have to scuffle for bread, because he didn't eat. He didn't need a fancy pad because he didn't sleep. He was the quintessence of all that the gurus taught and the hippies sought -- a completely non-involved entity who lived merely to do his thing. Maybe if I had his advantages I wouldn't be here. I'd have turned Drool over to the scientists for study, let them examine his unique physiology and alien mentality. Or perhaps I'd just let him free to g# his own way in the world. But I did have to eat and I did need a pad, and my thing was everybody's thing -- do unto others before they do unto you. So I was here, and I was nervous. Jostling through the narrow corridor behind the outdoor stage, we came to the tiny cubicle which served as Sylvester Schlock's temporary headquarters for the evening. He bounded into the hall and grasped my hand. "DM you see the crowd?" he demanded. "Beautiful!" I stared into the office over his shoulder. "So is that," I told him. The floor of the little room was stacked with canvas bags stuffed with coins and currency; loose bills and loose change cascaded from their containers, brought here from the box-offices. "Twenty thousand customers at three bucks a throw," Schlock murmured. "Sixty thousand on one concert alone. And if your boy makes it big tonight -- " "He will," I promised. "Just keep an eye on him." "Sorry," said Schlock. "I've got to stay here and keep an eye on the loot. I never mix business with pleasure, and watching money like this is a pleasure, believe me." "But I thought you were going to introduce our star -- " "There's a mike on stage. Why don't you do the honors?" Schlock waved me forward. "Better start soon, that mob is getting restless." Oandy squeezed my hand. I  squeezed back. And then, somehow I was out there under the lights, under the scrutiny of twenty thousand pairs of watchful eyes. And I was singing something about, "Tonight we bring you a new era in entertainment -- a new star straight from the heavens -- Sneed Hearn! " The applause rose, and Drool stepped onstage, moving to the microphone and bowing. "This is it," I whispered. "Remember -- all systems go!" "I'll lay it on them," Drool promised. I left the stage, perspiring. Drool stood under the spotlight, grinning. The crowd fell silent, waiting. Ill never forget that moment; the hushed, still moment of expectancy. And I'll never forget the moment that followed it; the moment when Drool opened his mouth. Drool opened his mouth and the music came out It poured and pulsed, surged and soared. It wasn't just the sound of a vocalist and a small combo -- the majestic strains issuing from that tiny throat were the unmistakable utterance of a mighty orchestra and full chorus. "Holy Toledo!" Schlock moaned. "No," I corrected. "That's not it. What he's laying on them is Beethoven's Ninth Symphony!" Schlock may have groaned again; if so I didn't hear it, for the sound was drowned in the greater # groan of the audience. Even Beethoven was lost in the impromptu chorale of boos, hisses, shouts and catcalls. "Get him off before they murder him!" Schlock shrieked, pushing me onstage. I got him off. "Come on," I muttered, grabbing Drool by the nape of his neck. "They're starting to throw things." And indeed they were. I dodged a pizza hurled by an indignant music-lover and ducked a beer-bottle aimed at me by another patron of the arts. "What's the matter?" Drool quavered. "Why don't they like it? Barf told me they would -- " "Barf?" I shook my head, but the picture was clear now, only too clear. That two-bit philosopher had corrupted our boy with classical music on his own record-player, seduced him into symphonies. "Wait until I get my hands on him!" I promised. But wait we would. Right now the important thing was to keep that angry crowd out front from getting their hands on us. Somehow I propelled Drool into the wings. The audience was rising, converging on the stage amidst a thunder of rage. IF The thunder was split by the lightning of Sandy's scream. "No!" she wailed. "Stop -- " I glanced up quickly, then blinked in sudden shock. Apparently Barf wasn't the only traitor in our midst. TT'or there, standing beside the  little offstage cubicle where the box-office receipts rested, was Luke Emia. As Schlock and Sandy raised their hands high in helpless surrender, Luke moved forward to cover them with -- "My superdisintegratosonic weapon!" Drool squealed happily. "He found it!" Which explained Luke's interest when he questioned me about the lost weapon, explained his absence during recent evenings when he went out to hunt for it in the canyon brush near the house. It also explained why he'd suggested we drive here tonight in separate cars. He had the weapon, and now he had the caper: holding up the place for the concert receipts. "Stand back!" Luke warned. "Don't anybody move -- " The words came too late, for Drool was already ducking under his arm, tugging at the oddly shaped, rifle-like object in Luke's hands. Luke pulled the trigger -- Then it was in Drool's hands, just as the weapon went off. Drool jerked the muzzle aside just in time to avoid the puff of greenish smoke which burst forth and coalesced into -- Another Drool, standing side by side with his exact counter-part, an identical twin Drool holding an identical weapon from which a puff of greenish smoke burst forth to coalesce into a third Drool -- "Stop!" I shouted. "Not until I conquer the world," Drool gurgled. "With that thing? It doesn't kill anyone!" "Never said it did," Drool shrugged. "All it does is reproduce." "You mean it duplicates?" "Reproduces," Drool corrected me. "How do you think Krool manspring?" Another greenish puff and from it, another Drool -- then another and another -- "That's the secret of taking over the world," the Drools chorused. "Divide and conquer." A rumbling roar from the platform behind us indicated another kind of problem. "It's the audience!" Schlock cried. "They're storming the stage -- they'll tear us to pieces -- " "Don't worry," said the Drools in unison. "We outnumber them." Then six Drools turned and marched onstage, raising six weapons. Six puffs coalesced and as the crowd shrank back there were twelve Drools facing them. Twelve weapons raised, and now the twelve became twenty-four. Twenty-four became forty-eight and forty-eight became ninety-six and ninety-six became a hundred and ninety-two and a hundred and ninety-two be came an army and the army became -- But you get the idea. So did I. Grabbing Sandy's hand, I ran for it. X Tt is very quiet here. Sandy and I stopped to plunder a refreshment stand on our way,  k "witzendUand find cur, baby. and I think we have a big enough stock of provisions to last us indefinitely. That's good, because I'm not sure we're ever going to come out again. At the rate Drool was reproducing himself, he may well have managed to take over the world by sheer weight of numerical supremacy alone. And I can just see it now -- everybody knee-deep in masses of Drools, rising higher and higher until they smother. It's the final population explosion, I suppose. And since Drools don't eat or sleep or have much need of oxygen, there's no reason to suppose they'll ever stop multiplying. If they ever get the idea to start singing in unison, the sound-waves will topple every man-made structure on earth. Oh, there's no end to the possibilities. But meanwhile, Sandy and I will stay here, where it's safe and quiet. Here, in Bodyland, in the one hiding-place that we can depend on. We're back in the womb. Some day, when it's all over, we may venture out again, just to see what happened. Right now I like it here, and I'm not about to move. The way things are now, Drool can have his world. It's a nice place to visit, but I wouldn't want to live there... IF IF  Feature Let There fphe Martian Invasion seems to be coming to an end. It was a long war, lasting for decades, and facets. Great ships plied space bevoid with every conceivable ray and alien Martians of every kind and description died. The sands of Mars grew colorful with blood -- red blood, green blood, you-name-it blood. The seas of Earth were looted for water and boiled away a thousand times. But now the ancient war is nearly over, and not even a conference table is left to mark its attrition. At least that seems to be true in the science-fiction magazines. This month, for example, Chapdelaine's Spork is busy with humans and Be Light aliens in an entire solar system, but the system is not that of our sun. Robert Bloch brings us a little green man, but not from Mars. And C. C. MacApp's ship with its crew and strange ship minds voyages far from Earth -- but not toward any planet of our system. Perhaps it's a pity. We'll miss the loveliness of Dejah Thoris and the sad, haunting Martian cities of Leigh Brackett. But science fiction still depends on a genuine respect for the basic facts of science, and our present knowledge rules out any chance for technical, intelligent races of the solar planets except Earth. We can't rule out the possibility of life on some of the other planets -- even some that seem pretty hostile. But if such life does exist, as most scientists hope, it must be composed largely of rather primitive plant and very low orders of animal forms. Most of the general public aren't ready to accept that yet. The flyingsaucer groups just about have to have nearby aliens to make the constant coming and going of their illusive (and in my opinion, illusionary) craft possible. But even the more conservative public clings to the belief in solar aliens. Whenever I address a group not composed of science-fiction fans, most of the audience stubbornly refuse to give up their feared but beloved Martians. They are now pointing out, quite correctly, that newspapers have reported that the astronauts who circled the Moon couldn't find any visible evidence of technical, intelligent life on Earth. Hence, it seems to most people that we can't possibly know enough about other planets to rule out such life there. It sounds logical, but the argument won't hold water. The catch lies in that often-omitted word, visible. There was a tremendous amount of evidence of technical, intelligent life on Earth available to those astronauts. They were bombarded by beams of high-frequency radio signals that required a welldeveloped technology and carried information in an ordered form that had to denote intelligence. We're no longer limited to that tiny part of the spectrum usable by our eyes. And any other technical race in our evidence that we could detect. AT ercury has always been con-"-" sidered a pretty poor place for life to flourish. Lying only # once supposed to turn only one face toward that searing light, leaving the hot side at the temperature of molten tin while the other froze at almost absolute zero. A few stories had life in a thin Twilight Zone that wobbled back and forth between light and dark, but even that area was troublesome because Mercury was supposed to have no atmosphere. Our current picture leaves much of this in doubt. The latest findings indicate that Mercury revolves in a way that turns all of the surface beneath the great solar orb, and that there is some kincl of thin atmosphere. But the new knowledge doesn't make life more probable. We know now that the light from the sun is accompanied by fantastic energy radiation of other kinds, such as highly charged particles that would be fatal even to electronic robots and would never permit life to form there. Venus remains largely a mystery, despite the American and Russian probes. These have given us a picture of a planet with a tremendous IF blanket of atmosphere under high pressure and a temperature above #F. Initial indications are also that this temperature is fairly uniform over the entire planet, also. It would obviously predude any life we can imagine. Yet there are some doubts. While much of the atmosphere seems to be composed of carbon-dioxide gas, the Russian probe did indicate that there were slight traces of free oxygen and water vapor. Some scientists have calculated that even this small amount of oxygen could not exist at such high temperatures unless there were plant forms to break down the carbon-dioxide and release the oxygen regularly into the atmosphere. If so, the plant life must be scarce and located mostly around the polar regions. Certainly there isn't enough oxygen for any high level of animal activity to exist there. Tars remains the hopes of most extraterrestrial doters. And there is a good reason for that. The fantastically successful flight of Mariner IV around that planet gave us a lot of information and showed us that Mars was pitted with craters like the Moon, but it did not make conditions quite so bad that life was impossible there. We know that the planet has an atmosphere; we can even see clouds in it, and locate what is best explained as a thin layer of frost or ice that accumulates in winter at the poles. The results of tests by Mariner force us to admit that there can be very little oxygen or water vapor in the air of Mars -- but that little might still support some life. Our visual evidence tends to indicate that such life does exist. There have been elaborate theories of odd chemical crystals to account for the fact that each summer green spreads rapidly over one hemisphere of Mars, to die off with the coming of winter. But those theories run into difficulties when they have to account for other factors. We see storms that must be dust storms on Mars. These blot out the green -- but it pops up again quickly, as it would if growing plants forced their way through dust deposits. Anyhow, the most economical theory as to unprovable assumptions is that there is life there. The canals, incidentally -- or properly, the channels (canali) -- are no evidence of anything, because They're as subject to debate as the existence of life. There's no certain evidence that they are more than accidental illusions caused by certain vague markings on the planet; and the evidence of Mariner IV tends somewhat to be against their existence. Scientists on Earth have even demonstrated that some Earth life could exist under Martian conditions. Lichens -- composed of algae and fungi living together symbiotically -- and some other simple plants have been grown at simulated Martian conditions -- and even a few primitive animal forms have survived there. But this has nothing to do with technology and intelligence. No early technology would be possible to give rise to a higher culture. In that atmosphere, fire would be impossible. And most primitive technology grows out of the use of fire, leading to metals, glass and all the other artifacts needed to handle the things that come later and don't require fire for their shaping. The same poor atmosphere would limit the activity of any animal to the point where the Earth sloth would seem like a bolt of lightning in motion. There simply isn't enough free oxygen to supply the energy for great activity. Brains would be excess baggage that couldn't be supported; such a collection of energy-consuming cells not immediately necessary to raw existence would be too great a luxury for the environment, and would never evolve. Tn the long run, the level of energy  available to the organism is probably the most important consideration in the development of higher life forms. Too much of it in the environment would speed up certain processes until no living balance could be struck. Too little limits the organism to the dreariest need for pure animal efficiency to exist at all. Even evolution must be limited by the energy supply, and such evolution on a world with little oxygen for animal life would obviate any chance for intelligent brains. Of course, there are other processes that don't involve the oxygen from an atmosphere, such as fermentation. But these are less efficient and yield less energy; and all life forms that use such processes on Earth are extremely primitive; most also depend on food from plants that can benefit from the high levels of energy available by photosynthesis on Earth, where the sunlight level is high without being lethal. This need for a source of energy suitable for biological use makes life in even the most primitive form unlikely on the planets beyond Mars. The moons of Jupiter receive less light and warmth by far than does Mars, so that even plant life there may be impossible. And the largest of these moons -- Ganymede -- is smaller than Mars, and less capable of holding a rich atmosphere. Jupiter itself remains an enigma. With more than ten times the diameter of Earth, it has retained an enormous atmosphere from which even the hydrogen has not vanished into space. Its huge gravity grips every gas molecule firmly, and the sun is so far away -- almost half IF is conveyed to those molecules to speed them up to velocities that could break from the planet's pull. We can see only the surface here, and our instrument readings leave many factors in doubt. If one theory is correct, Jupiter is far too cold to provide the energy needed by life. But there are other theories, involving the slow escape of radioactive heat from such a giant atmosphere and the odd behavior of the gases in it, which make the amount of free energy unpredictable at present. If any planet beyond Mars can support life, it must be Jupiter. But while the physics of energy are uncertain, the chemistry of biological processes offers us no real hope of any life there either. Saturn and the other planets further out must be dead. There could never have been enough energy available on them for the first organic chemicals that build living matter to form. T ittle by little, science has tak' en away our hope of finding alien enemies and friends in our system. But there are compensations. Forty years ago, when science fiction was just beginning in the magazines, all the speculations of science indicated that the chance of life beyond the solar system was almost exactly zero. At the time, the only theory we had to account for the existence of planets around our sun was so complicated that we could expect no other star in the entire galaxy to have similar planets. And we didn't have any idea at all as to how life could evolve spontaneously on even our own planet. Now. we know better. We've demonstrated experimentally that life is almost certain to evolve, and we have theories which indicate that the formation of planets is a natural and common thing for stars. Better still, we have evidence that other stars do have planets. So far, the other planets we have discovered are huge, bearing little resemblance to Earth, but they help to prove that planets are not unique to our system. Today, it's not too optimistic to believe that most stars somewhat like our sun -- and there are a vast number of them -- have planetary systems. Our current theories indicate that many of those systems must include a planet not too dissimilar to ours, and that such planets almost certainly will have life. There must have been other intelligent races in the past. There surely will he other intelligent races in the future. The only question is whether intelligence has enough survival value for another race -- or for us -- to survive until we can get together. But we have to allow some optimism in our science fiction, after alL And now that the great and IF IF  Novelette With Gerlik insane, Ben Tomsun had to take over the Ship. But no sensible man would help him. I TT'rom Deck Ten, where the " pines grew, it was fifteen hundred feet up to the sunlamps on the steel bottom of Sea Deck. That was not, of course three times as hard a climb as the five hundred feet between lower decks, because deck-gravity -- a full gee at soillevel -- tapered off quickly above any deck. Then, too, the rope ladder here only hung to a platform six hundred feet up in a vast old pine beside the circular hatchway called Central Well. By the time one reached that platform, gravity was less than half a gee, treetops and parasitic flowers were burgeoning joyously, and a vigorous young man need hardly pause for breath before starting up the ladder. Pryingboy Thorp was already near the top of the ladder, preceding, as a Watch Corporal should, the five men of his squad. The lamp-heat -- not too much of it directed toward Central Well -- was delicious on his skin. He loved this trip -- had, in fact, pestered superiors brashly to get assigned permanently to Sea Deck patrol. He loved the colorful, per fumy mass of vegetation, and even more the feel, this far up the ladder, of virtual free-fall. for his ancestors, in times before the Catastrophe, to don those legendary pressure-suits and go completely outside the sinus -- outside the Ship, even! Just below the edge of Sea Deck, while he pas st  weightless, he paused to look down at his squad. Kail, Waran, Arden, and Pendergast were spaced along the ladder, with Muller still on the platform as rear guard. Pry went a rung higher. Carefully, because sudden weight could play tricks with one's co-ordination he reached up, grasped a knoblike thing that had once been an interior eye of the Ship, and pulled himself onto the narrow ledgelike shelf that ran around the inner curve of Sea Deck's central retaining-wall. His renewed weight felt enormous at first. He leaned against the wall until dizziness passed, then climbed a battered steel ladder mid sat straddling the fifteen-foof-high wall. The acrysteel was cool between his thighs. He glanced around at the circular sea. Light glinted off wavelets stirred by influx-air. There was a smell of fish and sea-plants. From an excrescence on the steel a few feet away came one of the Voices of the insane Ship. "This is Captain Gerlik. I feel your electrical capacitance. By your mass, you must be a grown man. I bless you, my son! Though I am deaf and blind where you are, I bless you." Another voice cut in for a fe moments, mouthing gibferish, then Gerlik's voice returned. "Though the universe has passed away, I shall maintain...-. " The sound dribbled away into a mutter and stopped, as if the speaker had forgotten Pry. He shivered a little. He knew the voices were only the minds and personalities of longdead people transcribed into the Ship's computers, but they were eerie. He wondered why the first rebels, ten or twelve generations ago, hadn't smashed this communicator-outlet along with others. Maybe they'd needed to know whether the Ship stayed alive at all. IF 'T'his space -- called Middle Void -- was the biggest in Sinus B, unless there might be bigger ones in the dark, uninhabited, unreachable other half. From where he sat, by turning his head be could see the entire enclosing curve of the sinus wall. Sinus B, the tattered old books said, was a long cylinder closed at both ends, hashed across at intervals with decks having their own artificial gravities, and with various ingresses, ducts, fittings and buried machinery. He knew the dimensions by heart. Fifteen thousand feet long; four thousand in diameter; with the hundred-foot-wide holes in each deck that comprised Central Well, There were no overhead lamps here in Middle Void. The lamps were in a ring around the sinus wall, fifteen hundred feet above the water. They provided light and heat not only for that round ocean, but also for Upsidedown Sea, three thousand feet above his head. He tilted back his head and stared up. Had that half of the sinus been peopled too, at some time? No record remained, and the round hole in the middle of Upsidedown Sea -- surely the continuation of Central Well -- was perpetually dark. It wasn't likely anyone would ever reach there now, because three thousand feet was much too far to build a ladder or to catapult a grappling-hook, even aside from the complications of inverted gravity. There were sounds below hfaa, and Fathersface Kail climbed the wall. He grinned at Pry and asked, "All right if I dunk?" "Sure," Pry said, and watched enviously as the other dropped to the shallows and began to splash about. The Ship maintained the water at a comfortable temperature, the better for the fish crop. But as Corporal, Pry must stay alert. Not that there was ever anything to observe, except some citizen trying to fish illegally, or a toothick growth of seaweed. It was two hundred years since the last Ship's stooge tried to sneak in, and almost as long since the last robot machine appeared. General opinion was that there was no longer anyone alive outside Sinus B, and no 'pairbots still operating. Nevertheless, he must be watchful. The rest of the squad arrived one by one -- Troublechild Waran, Secondboy Arden, Baldbaby Pendergast -- who, however he'd been born, was far from bald now -- and Jamestwo Muller -- the oldest man of the squad, who was beginning to be bald. They all joined Kail in the water. After a while Waran climbed up beside Pry. Waran was the youngest of the squad, barely nineteen. He stared up at Upsidedown Sea. "Why aren't there any fish up there?" Pry gave him an amused glance. "Maybe there are. They'd have to be pretty big to see at that distance. Did you ever hear of a fish five or six feet long?" Waran flushed a little and grinned. "No." He was, quiet for a minute. "If the gravity ever failed up there, all that water would fall on us, and some would pour down Central Well! Why is the gravity upside-down there, do you suppose?" Pry, who'd wondered often enough, shrugged. "Maybe that's part of the Ship's madness. Or maybe it was designed that way when the Ship left Earth." .Waran said softly, "Eight hundred years! And now Earth's gone, with the rest of the universe. How long do you suppose the Ship will last? And will it ever war upon us again? It could stop recycling air, or leave the plant nutrients out. It could leave the sunlamps off, or -- or poison the water!" Pry, irritated, got to his feet. He began shedding his backpack and Other gear. "Then I suppose we'd all die." He started around the top of the retaining-wall. "I'm going to have a look at the other side." He went carefully -- one certainly didn't want to fall down Central Well -- but tried to act nonchalant. The sensible thing, of course, would be to drop to the water and swim or wade; but, except for Waran, the squad were all older than Pry and he didn't want to show timidity. II Hphe shallows near the opposite I curve of the retaining-wall were normal. Or were they? His stomach tightened suddenly. That shape out there, distorted to view by the surface and the waves -- was it a man lying on the bottom? Drowned men don't stay submerged. He dove and swam, after shouting for his squad. The thing had arms and legs, certainly, but... Then he was close enough to see that it was some kind of limp garment -- one that would cover a man all over. Skin prickling, he threw a look up toward the black hole in the middle of Upsidedown Sea; then, arching himself, he dove and seized an arm of the garment. It felt slick, like the few scraps of old plastic that still existed. His men gathered around, treading water. Waran, eyes wide, asked in an awed voice, "What is it?" Pry's own voice was shaky. "It's a pressure-suit! It was right here, on the bottom. There's not enough current to have moved it, and it wasn't here yesterday; so, an intruder's come into the sinus sometime during the last dark-cycle here!" Muller said hoarsely, "There aren't any more people outside the sinus! It must have been some kind of robot!" IF Pry said impatiently, "A robot wouldn't need a pressure-suit. They 'don't breathe, and they have their own grav-lifts. So there are people out there after all!" He began towing the suit toward the retainingwall... There was no more talk until they pulled themselves from the water. Then Muller asked, more reasonably, "But why would he abandon it? Do you suppose he drowned? Or maybe the suit just fell from up there I" Pry suppressed annoyance. "How could that happen, with the gravity reversed up there? Do you see any water falling this way?" Muller grinned. "No. But why would he abandon it?" "Because," Pry said, "he's trying to pose as -- as one of the people! Maybe in the dark, he didn't realize the suit could be seen from the retaining-wall. But he's gone somewhere below. He could be hiding on Deck Ten. Or lower." Waran tasked shakily, "What would he want?" Pry shook his head slowly. "As a stooge of the Ship, he may have been sent to prepare the way for some sort of invasion; or he might be here just as a spy." Muller growled, "He won't find spying easy! Are we going to search Deck Ten?" "No. Not until we get reinforcements." Pry stared upward. "First of all we're going to send word down to Deck One; then I want to get this thing out of sight in case someone or something's watching from -- from up there." He looked at Muller. "You probably know more people on the various decks than any of us do. You take the word down. Tell a few people along the way, but no strangers; and don't delay getting down to Deck One. You'll have to climb down through four or five ladders in the dark." Muller shrugged. "I've done that plenty of times. Shall I say anything else except..." Pry shook his head. "Just what's happened." In case Muller were intercepted by the intruder -- who might have unimaginable weapons, hypnotic drugs, anything -- it would be better to keep the report vague. AyTuller nodded and hurried to"- ward the down-ladder. "I wonder," Waran said softly, "what he'll look like? If he'll be normal, I mean." He eyed the suit which, with the water drained out of it, was surprisingly light. "One thing -- he's bigl" Pry looked again at the suit. "Yes. There were four sizes of pressure-suit, and this must be the biggest. We'll have to be really alert! Kail, you and Waran stay up here on watch. Pendergast, you go down to the tree-platform on Deck Ten as a lookout. Arden, you follow me down. Both of you make sure your knives are loose in the scabbardsl " Pendergast turned, then hesitated. "How are you going to carry the suit? If he's skulking somewhere, watching the ropes, he'll see it!" Pry told him, "I'm going to bundle it up and stuff it in my backpack. If we all act casual, even if he does see us he may not suspect anything." The plastic of the suit -- brownish-yellow stuff -- seemed incredibly thin to ward off the terrors of open space, "though those might be exaggerated in the old tales. There were many thickened parts of the suit, including a thick ridge around the waist, where things were imbedded. There were loops for attaching things. The helmet was semi-rigid, with a horizontal window of clear yellow glass. There were instruments sealed into the helmet, and several turns of wire completely around it near the' crown. No doubt it had radio and all the other legendary things. But it made a small enough bundle to get in a backpack. Pry walked around to the ladder, glanced to make sure Arden was following and started down. There was five hundred feet or more of clear air before he was among lacelike tendrils of vine, and glad even of that tenuous cover. Then he reached the flaring pinetops and paused to let his eyes adjust to dimmer light. This was a dim fairy-world, with the light from the sunlamps heavily screened by foliage. Birds that would have had to beat their wings hard in full gravity soared easily here, or hovered with rasual wingbeats. Squirrels made magnificent slow leaps from branch to branch. There was a distinct ecology of small animals at this level -- even cats took advantage of the thick foliage and low gravity, eating what they could catch, drinking water that collected in upturned blossoms during the gentle dark-cycle rains. Pry continued on down. Gravity increased. The pine-trunks became thick and gnarled, the branches fewer and the light dimmer. He joined Pendergast on the platform. "Hear anything?" "No. Shall I go on down?" "Yes." Pry waited while the older man climbed down the ladder of pegs driven into the treetrank. When Pendergast set foot on the ground and signalled up, Pry could see him only dimly by light coming in laterally from Central Well. Pry went down and they strode the short distance to the retaining-awll of this deck. Pry turned to peer into the gloomy forest. "My guess is, he went farther down while it was dark' He couldn't be sure, but be shrugged and sent Pendergast down the next ladder. IF D eck Nine, five hundred feet below Deck Ten, had a thinner layer of soil suitable for wheat. It was in day-cycle now, but wouldn't be for long. Pry, stepping off the ladder, stood with his hip against the retaining-wall -- a low one, here -- and stared around at the sinus wall. Intervening low hills hid the base of it and the rim of trees along it -- willows taking advantage of the peripheral drain-off ditch. There'd have to be a search there when enough guardsmen arrived. The sunlamps were hot. One quadrant of wheat, to his left, was nearly ripe. Directly before him was a greener quadrant, while to the right was a crop of alfalfa to re-liven the soil. On the far side of Central Well was the newly-plowed sector. He'd scrutinized all four quadrants, of course, as he came down the ladder. He waited for Arden to join him and Pendergast. "Wait here a minute, the two of you I'm going to look at those tracks in the ripe sector." The tracks, two sets of them, led away from the retaining-wall. A little way out, one set zigzagged, while the other mote or less pursued. That might mean some girl leading her man friend on a laughing chase; no one lived on the grain decks, but anyone could visit. At the best, the pair who'd made these tracks had trampled grain unnecessarily. Pry followed the tracks to a low hummock. Partway up the slope, one set continued straight on over while the other turned back -- retracing carefully to avoid trampling more wheat, which was proper. Stepping in the continuing tracks for the same reason, Pry followed them up the hummock. From the top he could see the body sprawled face up in the wheat beyond. An area of flattened grain indicated she'd fallen, gotten up to stagger a few steps, and fallen again. He shouted for Pendergast and Arden, then ran toward the girl. She was perhaps in her early twenties, slight, dark-haired. She wore a tunic of green cloth that left her tanned arms and legs bare. Her moccasins were scuffed. Her hands showed signs of moderate work. Pry guessed she might be from Deck Four or Deck Five, where people lived in the fruit-orchards. She lay limp, her breathing slow, but Pry saw no sign of injury. Carefully he rolled her over and winced at a round stain of blood on her garment, just at the back of the left arm-hole. Pendergast, coming alongside, grunted. Pry reached under the cloth. There was a small hard object half-imbedded in the flesh. Gently, he pulled it free and looked at it. Arden gasped. The thing was a very slim bullet -- hardly more than a half-inch IF needle. Pry looked up at the other two men. "This is a hypodermic bullet! Do you remember the pictures and descriptions of the pistols?" He gently pressed her garment against the tiny wound to make sure she wasn't bleeding any more, then got bandage-cloth and a bit of dry balsam from his belt-pouch, washed her wound with water from his canteen, rubbed the balsam against the still-wet skin and plastered on a bit of doth. Then he got to his feet and stared toward the rope ladder. It seemed very likely that the intruder had gone down at least one deck farther. "You two stand guard at the ladder. I'll try to revive her." Ill   to stir, moaned and tried to gather her arms under her. Pry knelt quickly. "Lie still! I think you'll feel better in a few minutes." She stiffened, but obeyed. Her breathing strengthened. Presently she lifted her head enough to see him. "Oh!" she said in a surprised, relieved tone. Her brown eyes, though, showed fright. "What happened to you?" he asked. She drew in her breath. "I -- I'd just come up to inspect the wheat. A man was standing a little way from the ladder. I nodded and he nodded back, and I walked along the retaining-wall to the ripe sector. I must have stopped and looked back at him too curiously. He -- he acted a little odd, and he was -- was pale; not tanned. I thought he might be some hermit from Deck Ten. Then he ran toward me and I saw something in his hand, a sort of pistol, like the pictures in the old books. I ran and tried to dodge, and he followed me. I felt a sting at the back of my shoulder. I tried to get across a hummock, hoping he wouldn't follow, and then... and then I began to feel weak. I guess I went a little way and fell down." "You fell twice," Pry told her, and felt foolish. "What did he look like?" "Just -- j'ust pale. He was cleanshaved, and his hair was cut short. He wore ordinary clothes like anyone. Anyone on the orchard decks, I mean." "Was he big?" "Yes. An inch or more taller than you, and heavier. I thought it was odd that such a muscular man wouldn't be tanned." Pry felt a stir of pique. He was considered muscular enough himself. He demanded, "Did you see him go back to the ladder?" "No. I didn't look back until I was beyond the hummock, then I -- Do you think he's still on this deck?" "No, I don't. I think he went farther down." Her eyes widened. "Somebody has to give the alarm! Obviously, with that pistol, he's a -- a stooge! " Pry felt that he was scowling at her. "I've already sent a messenger down. Come on, if you can walk now. We'll build a fire near the ladder." She looked puzzled. "A fire?" "The upper decks will be dark by now, and before long this one will, too. I don't want to risk starting down in the dark until reinforcements get here." He flushed, realizing she might interpret that as cowardice. "In this backpack I've got the suit he came down in. I can't risk his getting it back. Without if, at least he's trapped in our half of the sinus." She stared at him for a minute. "Ah! You mean a pressure-suitl Where did you -- " "We found it on Sea Deck." He helped her to her feet, and urged her toward the ladder. nphere was, as on all decks, a small pile of firewood near the ladder, since patrols were likely to camp on any deck through the dark-cycle. Pendergast got busy with a firebow and soon had a blaze going. The girl looked fairly well recovered by now, and Pry questioned her some more. "Didn't you bring a canteen up with you, or anything? "Yes, a standard kit. I left it near the ladder rather than carry it with me. I guess he took it" Pry stared away for a minute. "Fine," he said sourly. "Anything to help out his disguise. Well, we'll feed you. I don't want to send you down the ladders in your condition in the dark. Where do you live? On one of the orchard decks? She flushed, a little angry. "Deck Five. I can get down all right!" "No. There'll be men coming up the ladders anyway, and you'd slow them down. Besides, I need you here, in case some superior of mine comes up and wants to question you. You're the only person, so far as we know, who's seen the intruder." She shrugged coldly and settled herself against the retaining-wall, not looking at him. He felt a little ashamed of his gruffness. Deck Nine was ghostly when the sunlamps went out. There was almost no light from Central Well, since decks Five and everything higher were in darkness too. The fire illuminated a short curve of the retaining-wall and a small half-circle of the grainfield. Cool influxair was wafting down from the ducts between the dark sunlamps. He realized that he and his companions would be here when the rain started; but on a grain deck it was a mere drizzle. He waited impatiently. Reinforcements ought to be here by now! Finally he got up, threw a IF leg over the retaining-wall and took a firm grip on the few rungs of metal ladder that were an ancient fixture here. The girl was on her feet staring at him. "Are you going down? I thought -- " He grinned at the concern in her voice. "No. I'm just going to lean out and look down. There'll be torches, if men are coming up." He let his body hang as far out as his arm would stretch. H is skin began to prickle. Something was unfamiliar about Central Well. Then he gasped. There was no light at all -- no dim rings of luminosity marking the lowest decks, which should be out of the staggered dark-cycle before now. No light at all! Or -- was that a torch? The tiny point of light winked off, then on, then off again. He read the signal, half-mumbling it over to himself. Presently he pulled himself up and back over the wall into the welcome firelight. All three companions stared at his face. He said slowly, "All the lamps are off, clear down to Deck One. There's a signal fire there, directly below Central Well. They say no one knows what the trouble is. They order all guardsmen to stay on post, wherever they are." There was a shocked silence. Finally Pendergast asked, "What did they say about Muller?" "Nothing. That may be just caution, but I think -- well, I don't think he ever got to them! I think he was intercepted. I think he's lying somewhere unconscious, or -- or dead!" He raised his voice because the tightness in his chest made it hard to speak softly. "Do you see the significance of the lamps all being off at once? The Ship's co-operating with its stooge -- making things easier for him. Maybe even without the suit he has some way of communicating with it. Or maybe they're working on a prearranged schedule!" The girl said in a low, slightly unsteady voice, "We can't live without the sunlamps." Pry looked at her halfblindly. He had to get that suit down to Deck One, along with word of what was happening. He moved to the wall again. "I'm going down. Now!" But before he touched the wall he stopped, rigid with a thought. After a moment he laughed hoarseiy"What's funny?" Pendergast demanded sourly. Pry said, "I'm an idiot! Here I'm thinking of climbing down several thousand feet of dark ladder, carrying in my backpack a suit that has grav-lifts. Why don't I simply put it on and float down?" The trio stared at him. Finally the girl said, "You don't know how to operate it I" "I can learn ! A few experiments -- " "But," she said hastily, as if she were worried about him and sought any argument, "suppose he intercepts you? He may have ways of seeing in the dark. Then -- then he'll get the suit back!" He said, "First he'll have to see me, then he'll have to reach me. And then he'll have to take it back!" His heart was pounding now. Why hadn't it occurred to him before to put on the suit? He shrugged off the backpack. "What's your name?" he asked the girl. "Maybe, if they've built bonfires on Deck Five by now, I'll stop and tell them you're all right!" She glared at him. Finally she said, "Marytwo Garth." He pulled the suit from the pack and let it fall loose. The closure down the front was open. He thrust in one leg, then the other. He pulled the helmet over his head, worked his arms into place and tugged the front together. He felt for the small knob that was the closure-closer and began to pull. And the suit spoke to him. IV r A fter his first frozen moment of startlement, he realized it was only a communicator built into the helmet. The voice sounded human, but it wasn't Captain Gerlik's. "Hello," it said again, "who are you?" It still took him a while to find his voice. Then he said guardedly, "I'm a citizen of Sinus B. Who are you?" The voice chuckled. "I know you're a citizen of the sinus. What's become of the man who wore this suit a few hours ago?" Pry's mind raced. Did the suit have any way of destroying him? Could the owner of the voice tell precisely where the suit was, or see via it? Pry said cautiously, "We have him under control." "Oh," the voice said. "Well, my name when I was alive was Ben Tomsun. I'm one of the personalities programmed into the Ship. You people evidently believe the whole Ship's insane. Parts of it are. There were schisms at the time of the Catastrophe, and the computers divided into at least four factions, located in different parts of the Ship. Several of the nineteen human personalities programmed in were destroyed. Others went insane, in a way peculiar to a half-machine, half-human intelligence. Two who retained joint control of Sinus B warred against each other, and your own ancestors suffered greatly until they quite reasonably rebelled and seized your half of the sinus. Are you listening?" Pry felt as if his stomach were full of active beetles. "Yesl" "Good. Captain Gerlik eventualIF ly overcame the other mad personality, or absorbed it -- even now we aren't sure about some things. There are parts of the ship under our control -- mine and several colleagues'. There are live, sane, healthy humans in the forward part of the Ship, which is called Nose Cone and contains Sinus A. With them and what few repair robots and other facilities remain, we -- the sane computer-personalities -- have gradually been repairing the Ship and getting ready to seize control of all of it, if possible. We had to work very carefully, because Captain Gerlik can still wreck your end of Sinus B. You have been hostages." The voice paused "Maybe this all sounds like gibberish to you. Have you any knowledge of computers, and of the Ship's lifeenvironment machinery?" Pry was irritated, and still not sure he wasn't talking to a clever madman. He said stiffly, "We have a few books left. I've read them." There was a hint of a chuckle from the voice. "Fine; fine. From time to time in the past -- not within the last few generations -- we've been able to send human agents by a circuituous route into Sinus B. Some have been intercepted by robot machines under Gerlik's control. The rest were all killed by our people." The voice took on a worried note. "You haven't killed the present one, have you?" P ry thought it wise to say, "No. "Don't, please l The safety of your whole people depends on him! " After a moment the voice added, "Or upon you " Pry wondered if he heard rightly. "Upon... me? The voice sighed. "Yes. Since we've had so little success sending envoys to your people, we decided -- once we were able to clear a route for another attempt -- to try to enlist one of you as an envoy to us. That was the aim of our present agent. Now it seems that you -- I wish you'd tell me your name, and what position you occupy in your society -- have voluntarily climbed into that suit. It occurs to me that to come visit us and learn certain things for yourself. Then you could return and persuade others. What do you think of that?" Pry swallowed hard and stared through the yellow window of the helmet at his two men and the girl. Their faces showed that they'd been hearing every word. "I... don't know. What is it you -- you'd want me to see?" "Various things. First of all, that there are sane people who retain the knowledge and technology your ancestors had before the Catastrophe. And that they trust me -- us. That would be a big thing for your people to know, wouldn't it?" "Well -- yes." come outside Sinus B and visit us in Nose Cone? I won't lie to you -- the trip will be dangerous. Gerlik has resources, and he regards us as infidels, and will destroy any messenger between us and you, if he can, as you would step on a poisonous insect You still have insects in Sinus B, I think." "We have insects." Pry's mind was kneading. If there were nothing hut the danger described -- if it had been only a perilous adventure -- how eagerly he'd acceptl But his whole people were at stake. Anything the voice said might be a lie. Once the Ship had him in its control outside the sinus, might it not tamper with his mind in some way? Could it not bend him to its own insanity, and send him back as a subtle poison for his own people? If he only knewl If he could only make a reasonable guessl "Well? the voice said gently. Pry writhed. "I don't know I I couldn't operate this suit anyway!" That was true enough. The voice chuckled again. "Why are you wearing it, then? But it's only a matter of a few simple instructions from me, and a few trials by you. Why are you so reluctant? Are you afraid?" "No! Not the way you mean." The voice sighed. "Then you think I'm lying. pry moaned. He daren't say yes, and to say no wouldn't help him any. He reached with a trembling hand -- awkward enough anyway, because of the gauntlet -- for the closure-knob, thinking he had to get out of the suit or go mad. But the voice said, "How could we use you to harm your people? Suppose we could brain-wash you -- I guess that would be possible, if we had the desire. At worst, you'd go back to your people with false beliefs. They wouldn't be brainwashed. Wouldn't they simply disbelieve?" There was a pause. "Here -- to show our good faith, I'll turn the lamps on!" The deck was suddenly bathed in light. Pry, his eyes protected by the yellow glass, saw Pendergast, Arden, and the girl blink. The voice said, "With the lights on, your people will see you leave and return. What else are you worried about? That we'll infect you with some deadly disease? Think -- if we, or Captain Gerlik for that matter, wanted to destroy your people or beat them to their knees, we could do it by tinkering with your environment. Do you see that?" "Yes. I -- that's true!" The voice sighed. "Here's another point. You say you have our present agent under control. He'll be a hostage for your own return. Does that help?" Pry was almost sobbing by now. IF He ought to wait for his superiors to arrive -- they'd be coming, now that there was light -- and leave the decision to them. But they'd take the suit away from him, and send someone else, even if they did believe the voice. He was too junior in the guard... Slowly, his hand dropped from the closureknob. Anyone else who went would run the same risks, and bo the same risk. He drew in his breath sharply. "How do you operate this suit?" The voice that called itself Ben Tomsun was talking steadily. "Put your left hand on the rows of little bumps on the left breast of the suit. The row across the top controls the grav-lifts. Pressing the first from the left and the first from the right will set up automatic neutralization of any gravity you're in, so that in effect you weigh nothing. Now -- " Pry's heart was thudding. He might be a traitor or he might not; but he was going through with this or die! He neutralized his weight; he pushed very gently with his feet and floated upward, then pressed bumps and floated down. "I've got that! Now how do I -- " The controls weren't complicated, once they'd been explained. In fifteen minutes he was ready to launch himself up Central Well. He waved a jaunty hand at the trio standing by the rope ladder and grinned at them through the helmet window. Pendergast and Arden stood rigid, staring at him with ludicrous expressions that combined awe, disapproval and envy. The girl's face was harder to read. There was a trace of concern, plus, perhaps, admiration. V Iphe first bit of difficulty came when he had to turn over halfway through Middle Void, so he'd be dropping feet-first toward Upsidedown Sea. The suit had a built-in resistance to any change of head-and-foot alignment that had to be counter-acted. Once he achieved it, though, he knew he could do it easily next time. The retaining-wall around the hatchway in that other sea was identical with the one he knew -- except that its sensors and communicators were undamaged. He cringed a little when Captain Gerlik's voice assailed him. "Faithless one! Traitor! What devil's-work have you perpetrated among my people? You shall be punished; do not doubt it. You shall burn through all eternity! Yea, though Heaven and Earth perish..." The voice faded into mumblings. The voice of Ben Tomsun whispered in his helmet. "Pay no attention and keep moving slowly. He can't interpret sanely what he sees or hears." Later, at Ben Tomsun's direction, Pry turned on lights -- one that fanned out in all directions from his helmet, another that lanced straight ahead so he could see farther. He dropped through a space that must correspond to the one above Deck Ten. His light-beam made a dim oval on nearly-bare soil. He asked hesitantly, "Is it all right if I -- " Ben Tomsun said quietly, "Take a few minutes to look around. It's best you know how things are." Pry moved laterally from Central Well and hovered a few feet above the lifeless deck. There had been trees here -- tall ones, but not pines. A few forked trunks thrust upward like supplicating skeletons. Mostly, though, only stumps remained, chopped off a few feet above ground, the axe-marks showing clearly. The wood was darkened and splintered, with strange deposits of some kind that glittered in the light-beam. He said to Ben Tomsun, "There's something here like broken glass." "Ice," the voice told him. "I guess you've never seen it before. There've been no sunlamps here for two centuries. Air circulates through, but isn't warmed. Where are you now? Do you see the metal ladder on the retaining-wall?" "No. I'm on the opposite side." Tomsun suggested, "Cross over and look at the dead camp." P ry complied, and found what Tomsun wanted him to see. There'd been people, all right: He hovered, staring down and puz zling thing out. There was chopped ffrewood, and the ancient remains of many fires. So that was what had happened to most of the trees. He realized suddenly that these folk must have kept a vigil here, on the highest deck they could reach, during a long perpetual night. Had they stared up at his own half of the sinus, where there was still sometimes light? They must have been near starvation at the last; all of the fifty or more corpses were horribly emaciated -- mere skin draped over bones. But they hadn't all died of starvation. Moving slowly, directing his beam about, Pry gradually built up the story. Many had died in a single way -- by having their skulls split open with an axe. Blood had long since turned to a solid dark stuff. He found the axe that had done it, and the wielder. Angry horror formed within him. Had the man been insane? Had he obeyed some raving of Captain Gerlik? Or... had he turned to cannibalism? No, there was no sign of that. The killer had apparently completed his work, then leaned the axe against a stump and lain down nearby. Then Pry saw the knife in the IF...  , ; '  ; . :    ,  ' :  VA  : ' V ' ' W v ;   fJ'J'J'J V.? mmms corpse's chest, with the fingers of the right hand still clenched around the hilt. Finally he saw the bit of paper clutched in the shrunken spidery fingers of the left hand. So they'd all been dying, and one -- with enough vigor left -- had gone around finishing them off quickly, then killed himself. They must have consented; there was no sign of struggle. An awful thing. But at least they hadn't descended to cannibalism. Pry choked on emotion. He ought, he knew, to go down and try to work that scrap of paper free from the dead hand to read the last message. But he couldn't bring himself to it -- not now. If things turned out right, he might do it on the way home; or someone else would do it later. Slowly, in a carefully-controlled voice, he described the scene to Ben Tomsun, who'd never had a complete description before. When he was finished, Ben Tomsun answered as slowly. "It's about as I'd thought. And it would have been so easy to rescue them, if we hadn't been prevented! So easyl" There was a pause. "Well, you'd better hurry on. You have to go down five more decks, then out to the sinus wall. Be very watchful -- keep turning your beam in all directions. If anything moves, get away from it fast!" Pry nodded, more than to obey that advice. sphere was dead soil and lifeless remains of plants on the; next two decks. On the third one down, there seemed to have been a fire. That was an orchard-deck, and everything was charred to stumps. The next deck down had known not only fire, but something worse. One whole side of the deck was buckled upward. Soil had been thrown aside, leaving bare steel. Ice had formed there. The sinus wall was pleated like a bit of doth. It was the next deck down, though, that showed the full force of the Catastrophe. Where the anus wall had joined the deck, jagged talons of acrysteel splayed upward. The sinus wall had bulged far out and ruptured here, leaving scraps of itself attached to the deck. It was through that toothed gap that Pry had to go. Beyond was darkness that swallowed up his beam.  Ben Tomsun said, "Move about and direct your light through at various angles. If you see anything move, turn off your lights and retreat!" Pry did as he was instructed. But there was no hint of movement outside. Ten minutes later he went through the hole. He paused there, awed. He'd understood that Sinus B was enclosed within another cylinder that was the outer hull of the Ship, but he'd had no conception of the distance between. His light couldn't IF VI probe it. Near him, the light slashed across great columns like steel bars ten feet thick. Then, seeing ragged holes in one of them, he realized they were hollow. Tomsun's voice said very quietly, "You may as well take time to go out and look at the hull. We won't be ready to meet you for half an hour anyway." "All right." Pry manipulated suit-controls. He must have travelled four hundred feet before his Kght showed a steel wall, badly rumpled and belled outward. In two places, great patches of thick steel plate had been welded on -- to close up ruptures, he supposed. One of the columns which, he realized now, were supports fixing Sinus B within the outer hull had been pulled apart by the awful force, and was crudely pieced together with welded-on girders. So the hull had bulged outward , not inward! He'd been thinking of the damage as some blow from outside. Instead, it must have started with terrible heat; there was plenty of other evidence of that. The softened hull must have been swelled outward by the air-pressure within and ruptured in the two spots. The same thing had apparently happened to the sinus wall. He shivered. How had the Ship kept any , of its air? Then he realized how small those ruptures were compared to the immense volume of the Ship. T) en Tomsun's voice cut into hfa  musing. "Where are you now?! Can you describe anything unique near you?" Pry nodded. "Yes. There are two patches, a steel column that's been mended near the outer hull." "That's adequate," Ben Tomsun said. "Drift down to the sinus waD a hundred yards from the base of that column, and on the opposite side of it from the patches. By swinging your light from side to side you can see the curve of the sinus wall. Give yourself partial weight so you can walk and come along it toward the fore aid of the ship. That's back toward Deck One, I hope you haven't lost your sense of direction." Pry mulled that over confusedly for a minute. "Oh. I'm all rfit, I guess -- only I didn't know Deck One was at the fore of Sinus BI I -- we -- supposed it was the opposite!" "No; it's forward. If you stray off-line, I'll correct you. We can sense you on the sinus wall; that's why I want you to walk. But he alert -- Captain Gerlik can sense you too! Swing your light constantly and look behind you. Avoid any place that might be an ambush, such as the bases of the travecolumns." The voice paused. "You are in a compartment now that's seven-hundred-fifty feet long, and you're near the aft end of it. When you reach the forward bulkhead, there'll be a hatch to come through. I'll open it long enough for you to slip through. The danger is lids: Gerlik has pairbots of various sizes in the aft end of the Ship that are still operative, and he may try to intercept you. We'll know if they roll along the sinus wall; but if any can fly, we have no way of detecting them. You'll see various stalled machines along the way. Don't worry about them unless they move, but detour around them. Some may be able to swing a tool or a tentacle, or even throw things. But any attack is most likely to come from the rear, and there's only your alertness to rely upon if he has flyable machines. Do you understand?." Pry said, "Yes. But there's one thing -- can't he overhear us talking?" "No, unless you pass near one of the wrecked machines. Some of them may still have working sensors. Now, I'd like to be able to send a strong escort to meet you, but that won't be possible for two or three hours, if at all; there are skirmishes going on right now in several different parts of the Ship, and we simply don't have weapons enough to spare. Our actual hope is that Captain Gerlik won't consider you important epough to waste resources on. He won't know you're a Sinus-B dweller, we think -- he'll think you're the same agent returning. All right?" Pry tinned his head to cast the light-beam about him. It seemed hardly to scratch the oppressive darkness. "All right. Shall I start?" "You'd better." P ry swerved around the fractured trave-column and slanted down to the sinus wall. He gave himself half-weight and started along at a fast walk. The suit hardly hindered him at all -- and that was a puz zlin g thing. How did it lift or move him, or vary his weight in effect Without tugging at his armpits or crotch? It must generate some sort of field that worked upon everything in it, or within a certain space. What ancient theory he'd seen hadn't explained it. He carefully skirted another column and paused to swing his light about him. It dimly showed other columns at various distances. He started on, swinging it ahead of him -- and suddenly stopped in a crouch. What was that his beam had slashed across? He found the object again -- an assortment of booms, levers, and tentacles mounted on a low threewheeled base. He'd never seen a picture of that kind of repair-robot, but it couldn't be anything else. Was it stirring? Heart thumping, left hand resting shakily on his (Continued on page #) IF IF  Novelette. Spork and the Beast How could aii unintelligent beast I S tars can be bright, merciless pins. Especially when one is floating free among their sharp needle-points,, sans ship, sans nourishment and sans oxygen. We had striven mightily to overcome the telekinetic effects of the strange, unknown beast which lay somewhere around or beyond the third planet's orbit Dingon, who had far stronger telekmass -- masssensing and telekinetic -- faculties # iMam  " . MiiW fr, ,, .:... UZ i   than I, had brought his own tiny figuieight-shaped form to the very brink of exhaustion in carrying my larger human-shaped mass as well as warm air beyond the reach of the seemingly irresistible beast. Dingon could easily have made the trip back to Enithra in some twelve jumps. My body's greater demands for oxygen and our inability to replace energy consumed by each jump had stopped us here in outer space. On Enithra, Dingon and I would have more or less automatically replaced energy drains from the life and food surrounding us; here, no such complex energy proteins were available. miles from home. We were surrounded by only a slight film of air, our ship had disappeared somewhere in the direction of the third planet and soon, though we had escaped the terrible clutch of the beast's telekinetic fidd, we too would probably be scattered in fine partides throughout the universe. Time passed and anoxia approached. My mind dwelt most naturally on home -- Enithra -- and its lush violets and ultra-violets, its eternally seeking mass-sensing and telekinetic plant and animal life, our successful struggles against our hereditary enemies, the Tepen, and our grouping decision to study and to utilize direct phenomenon as well as indirect -- tdekmass -- phenomenon. nphough I am human in form, I am Ayorian to my tiniest cell and I love our Enithra with every part of my body. When my biological mother and father crashed on Enithra I was but six months old. Erne, one of the figure-eight Ayorians, noted that my neuronic structure was incomplete, preventing me from utilizing tdekmass faculties. She helped me complete my growth, then accepted me as her twinning problem. Each Ayorian must make a personal committment aimed at dther solving some philosophical, scientific, or other type of problem. When successfully solved, that Ayorian twins to become two child-Hkci Ayorians, both shorter in stature with baby-like memory, but with improved capadty for solving problems originally accepted by its parent. Thus, for thousands of generations, the Ayorian magnetic form followed freely selected function, each twinning serving as a kind of radially-divergent evolutionary effect. The Ayorian species itself had the analog to twinning. Periodically all Ayorian members combined cup to hemisphere of one another to form a long chain of Ayorians tied together by the characteristics of their magnetic structure. Then, speaking in unison, they made decisions which affected the whole species. These decisions, hopefully, permitted the spedes as a whole to IF progress up the ladder of evolution, too. It was such a decision that led to our slaying the Tepen -- an evil, degenerate offshoot of the Ayor. I was first known as Spork, the moron, because of my childlike limitations of tdekmass. But once the Tepen were gone, caused primarily by change in the direction of Ayorian philosophical construct, I was fully accepted as an Ayorian adult though still called, not without some affection, Spork I I was twelve Enithra years old when the Tepen were destroyed; I worked five years more to advance the Ayorians in the direct use of their environment. Though sometimes suspecting that I would never twin as do other Ayorians, I accepted an additional twinning problem to advance the Ayor in their dual approach to life, my first being that accepted from Erne at her death, namely to find my purpose in life. Toward the end of learning more about direct action and its implications in the real world, we conserved the Tepen citadel, the last remaining "city" of the Tepen which contained much of their knowledge and artifacts. Until I was forced to use my body and muscles in continuous motion, like all Enithra life, patterns of movement across the planet and their meanings could be discerned easily by application of my telekmass faculties. I had first noticed how the Tepen, When moving across the valley floor, contrasted so strangely with their environment. Instead of teleporting from hummock to hummock as would the predatory Ettel, they seemed to flow, as though they were teleporting "continuously across an infinite set of points." Of course, in walking or running, I, too, behaved like that; but it was not so easy to observe myself against the background of other Enithra life. U sing this concept as a starting point, I instructed the Ayor in concepts of direct manipulation of their environment; as I had once done for the Ayorian children, I used my own body to convey the message. I demonstrated how hands and arms could be used to lift, pull, bend and push things; I even demonstrated the novel way of drinking which I had discovered. Instead of teleporting water directly  to my mouth or stomach, I cupped my hands to hold the water, then bent to drink from my hands. Once these simpler concepts had been satisfactorily absorbed by the Ayors, I moved on to the development of tools from the environment around. For example, sticks could be used as levers, spears, dubs -- each multiplying the weaker action of my muscles in some manner. They enthusiastically joined Ini the invention of these simpler tools t since, as past masters of abstract concept, they could easily compute anticipated effects from geometrical and physical energy considerations. Thus, they could often correctly predict the final outcome of a new and novel tool before its actual construction. As I saw it, my biggest job was to keep the Ayoris attention on the actual testing of their conjectures; for they had had thousands of years of heredity against which to fight, when only indirect twinning concepts were of importance and to this end I also applied myself diligently with some degree of success. Of course, always the children were most plastic. Indeed, without their plasticity there would have been no Ayorian race for they were the ones who had held my conceptual seeds enabling the Ayorian race to discover their racial obstacle during the time of grouping. Each child who successfully matured to reach adulthood eventually twinned to become two new children, each of whom were even more capable of comprehending and handling direct action without any loss of their indirect action faculties. I became the oldest untwinned Ayorian child, which was fortunate since there was indeed much to teach our one hundred thousand members! I was seventeen Enithra years old when the second ship came. All life on Enithra plucks eternally, within its sphere of capability, for nutrients. The tiniest life which I can sense with ray mass receptor reaches out with a telekmass field truly enormous for its small size; it teleports minerals, water and even tiny energy packets into its vacuoles. On up the scale of plant and animal life, each form takes dead or living matter in the same way, depending upon its nature. Thus, the beautiful violet and ultra-violet jungle growth spreads protective membranes over desired nourishment, struggling always against other life for its share of life requirements. T ie predatory Ettel teleports the fat, stupid Cien into its hug(B stomach sack; the Cien voraciously teleports all kinds of debris into its huge stomach. In the air, floating puff-balls reach out with frail fields hoping to catch dust motes or lightenergy packets which, once caught, are teleported to interiors sometimes in sufficient quantity to light like stars in the sky. While, in the many streams surrounded by our beautiful violet and ultra-violet vegetation, all manner of Hfe extend mass-sensors in weird and complex patterns to sense, catch, and teleport organic debris or five forms for food. It is easy to understand that one without telekmass faculties is at IF decided disadvantage on Enithra where even ultra-dense matter is as thin air to these faculties. AB Enithra life plucks at one another for food and only those who can generate stronger protective telekmass fields can survive the weaker. I was fortunate that Erne observed my lack so early, for, by completing neuronic growths inside my body, she provided me with the means for self-protection on Enithra. Unfortunately, when the second ship arrived, none noticed for a time and telekmass mechanisms in all plant and animal life surrounding the downed craft must have been instantaneously attracted to the rich, unprotected life ingredients. Perhaps the landing area was poor in needed minerals for the first to go were minerals from the human bodies inside the craft! One of the children playing the nut tree game stumbled on the craft first. Ouble -- the one who made the discovery -- tdeported from the sunny side of the planet to teH me of his discovery. Thunder and lightning were shaking the sky and all around me the rain spattered against my slightly extended telekinetic field, while at every side plants Were struggling against one another to capture the finely dissolved nutrients accompanying the rain drops. Ouble appeared before me, creating another shell of spattering rain, to state in his quiet way, "A second ship has cradled. We think you should be there." t my request, several Ayorians moved me to the site immediately. Though I could have made the trip, forty miles per jump was more time-consuming than the situation seemed to call for. It takes somewhat longer to describe my impressions than I would like. In nearly simultaneous order, I sensed the pitted metal caused primarily by surrounding plant life, the two shallow graves filled with rapidly disappearing bodies, and the extremely weakened human being who was slowly, methodically shoveling dirt into the graves. Then it was that the fantastic thought occurred to me in almost blinding boldness, "Could it be that this other, who is so much like me, knows nothing of Indirect action?" With my light receptors I could see the human utilize direct action only, to dig dirt and move it, to breathe, to perceive and to move his body. Although I did the same in varying combinations at various times, this human was not even protected from Enithra plant and animal life around us, which probably was the reason for his weakened condition! Pitting of the ship and the dead humans in the grave below was also caused by the same source -- nothing had protection from our ever-seeking life! Once I had extended my personal protective field around the ailing human and his ship, I spoke to one of the children. "Go to the Tepen "citadel for one of their telekmass protectors." By the time the human had Jraised his head to take notice of my ffcudden presence, the child was back pgrith the device and I ignored the fjrisitor until the protective field held the whole area safe. I Turning back to him I thought, "How strange is his appearance!" Though I had often looked at my own darkened features in smooth water and smooth metal mirrors, my standard of beauty was the symmetrical shape of the Ayorian. Until now I hadn't realized how truly ugly I must be. From the body portion, two arms hung loosely to lean on the shovel while his legs shivered with sickness and fatigue. I extended my mass sensors to take note of how calcium had been pitted from his bones. His head was thatched with yellow, tallow-like hair, as was mine; his light receptors were deep violet, as were mine; but his facial features were rounded where mine were lean and craggy. Now his light receptors opened wide with astonishment at my presence. I thought nothing of it at the time, but it wasn't my sudden, naked appearance from out of the dense jungle which had surprised him so -- it was my floating about two feet off the ground! When I telekmassed dirt into the shallow graves to complete his difficult labors I was rewarded with even more peculiar, uninterpretable expressions over his face. Though I was Spork, the Ayorian moron, I was not so dumb as to think this person would know either Ayorian or the dead Tepen language, though I tried both. I thought long and hard, then remembering my six-month-old recall experience from my early childhood, I mimicked my dead father's voice to say: "Though we headed the house of the galactic council, Patricia, the sabotage was inevitable. We may be genetically superior, but to the common people we are still only human. Place the baby in the life container now! " Our visitor fainted! n I telekmassed his body inside the ship to a strange platform covered with rectangular square patterns of imitation fibers and knitted with springy materials beneath; then, I let my sensors pass through his body, comparing bis chemistry to mine. Calcium and phosphorus were seriously lacking as well as certain complex proteins. I reached info the surrounding forest to recover IF calcium from various soft mushy growths -- probably the same ones Which caused his depletion -- and replaced the calcium. The phosphorus was retrieved from puff-balls in the air surrounding the ship. When I checked his blood against mine, I noted certain chemicals which performed similar functions to some of mine, yet had minor structural and quantitative differences. Just as the Ayor, upon twinning have different personal magnetic structures due to differences in alignment of their magnetic fields, humans too had normal differences. "Better not change those #" I thought. Otherwise, his blood was sadly lacking in iron; any of the jungle trees around us would reach for such a rich supply. I reached deep into the soil of Enithra to tdeport molecules of iron, sulphur and oxygen. I mixed these minerals with water and placed them inside his stomach where I was gratified to sense Its rapid absorption for manufacture of red-blood platelets. When the limits of my knowledge had been reached andj I dared not go further, he woke. Only for a moment did his light receptors look at me; then he closed them again to deep for many days. I filled his stomach with nourishment and took care of his biological needs during his period of recovery. Only once, when bis heart faltered, and I moved it in proper rhythm telekinetically, did I fear for his life. Afterward he gained health rapidly. As once before yvith the Tepen, my struggle for language began. As With the Tepen, concrete nouns formed the easiest common referent, or so it seemed until I used the Ayorian children usually surrounding us as a word referent. For days he had thought I Was pointing to the air around us, or to the ship, or fo something else, for he could not see the Ayorl He icould not see ultra-violet reflections at alll As We studied together, his strength returned and protein deficiencies were rapidly eliminated. L ooking back upon the experience, I now realize how I must have stared to see him chew gnd swallow every bit of food. Even to this day I find it a most fascinating phenomenon! The tongue and mouth are properly used for taste and talk. To use them, always, for swallowing is nearly beyond comprehension! Other things, such as the clothes over his body, were odd, too -- 'Stiff collar and decoration, stiffly pressed blue pants, bright red shirt, buckles, shoes and even smaller clothes underneath next to his skin. As odd as all these things Were, none could compare with his complete inability to mass-sense or fo teleport. "If the Ayor call me a moron because of my limitations with these faculties, what should we call our visitor?" I wondered. Months of language training from Toby Randolph -- our visitor's name -- enabled us to carry conversations beyond concrete nouns to somewhat higher levels of abstraction. Again I mimicked my father's phrase as I remembered it; he listened most carefully, but could not identify it. Toby Randolph belonged to a far distant planet many parsecs distant and he belonged to the household of the two humans buried outside the ship. Though it was many months before I learned the meaning of his rdationship to them, he described himself as a kind of "indentured slave-scientist" of their household. Mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology were exceptionally easy languages for me to understand. They were quite precise in themselves; but more than this, I could extend my mass-sensor at least to the chemical level whenever firmer mental referents were required; physics and mathematics were quite similar to Ayorian philosophical games upon which I had already spent endless childhood hours. Most difficult for me to understand were concepts such as money, art, stores, schools, culture and so on. No Ayorian equivalents could possibly be construed to represent the concept of ownership, for example. In his turn, he constantly exclaimed over how rapidly I could learn such abstract and complex concepts. To the Ayor I was Spork, the moron ; to Toby I was Spork, the savage. I wondered if everyone knew what I was except me! The most fantastic concept of all, however, was Toby's description of civilization. When the concept of continuous motion as opposed to discrete teleportation was so new to me and other Ayorians, how could we be expected easily to understand and mentally grasp images of ously with time, not to mention plant seeds, animals and even sea creatures? And what of the social organization behind such concepts? The nearest comparison here on Enithra were the now-dead Tepen who, though offshoots, were still from Ayorian stock! I vowed then to find some way of visiting these strange lands to see and experience for myself!   Toby's ship was brought back to our captured Tepen citadel where its vast scientific resources could be better studied. Toby Randolph proved to be an invaluable asset in the Ayorian struggle to learn the tools and concepts which accompany direct faculties. He hdped the Ayor, too, while I learned. These, being many times quicker intellectually than I, had long ago passed the mechanical leverage stage of toe# use. With the arrival of Toby, their capabilities increased in geometric progression. And twinning, too, increased geometrically. So many had twinned that only few remembered me as Spork, the child; though none would probably ever forget me as Spork, the moron. We learned to read. My light receptors could move back and forth across a certain span of printed characters just so fast. My telekmass sensor was quicker, leading Toby Randolph to believe that I had capabilities of eye span far greater than norioaally possible. But I refused to learn writing with my fingers. Why should I spend valuable time moving a tracing instrument when, merely by mentally visualizing the complete set of symbols I wished to transcribe, I could instantaneously place corresponding marks on the page? After all, only a very tiny number of molecules on the page need be changed to effect a desired change in light transmission or reflection properties! The years passed and overhead in the clear sky above the lush tangle of Enfthra growths, the Ayorians again formed their grouping chain. This day, instead of hiding like skulking animals deep within the bowels of Enithra's crust, the Ayor pridefully joined cup to hemisphere better than two hundred and fifty thousand strong, each jockeying for proper polarity position, all contributing their bodies and experiences in a long curving line crossing the sky from horizon to horizon. Even Toby Randolph's company, with his special glasses enabling him to see the chain of ultra-violet bodies overhead, couldn't dispel my normal grouping gloom. Wasn't I an Ayor, too? Must I forever be left out of the grouping chain? Normally the grouping lasted several weeks. This time, each individual Ayorian was so well aligned with the Ayorian racial goals that only days were spent. When they broke, we were informed of their racial decision to penetrate even deeper the principles of direct action and associated scientific knowledge -- they expected to be able to duplicate Toby Randolph's spacecraft Toby was astounded and delighted for in him must have been stimulated new visions of return to his civilization after all hope had gone. I knew there was something more behind the Ayorian decision, however, for once the Ayor had accepted the principle of dual action, they fully realized their evolutionary progress lay in facing and surmounting ever-larger challenges. IF Tphu the ship was to be reconI structed; Toby was to have his trip home; I would satisfy my curiosity regarding civilization -- but far more important, the Ayor 'would accept new revolutionary challenges! Were we Ayorians to be limited by only direct action faculties, as were the humans of Randolph's home planet, we too would need a (complex civilization where specialists built the tools to build the tools to build the tools -- perhaps to ten or twelve generations. On the other hand, given the model to go by -- his pitted ship -- as well as the new wealth of information supplied to us, by principles of indirect action alone we could have reconstructed his Ship. The process of reaching throughout the whole planet of Enirtha for appropriate elements selecting them to properly prepared states of purify, and forming them With telekinetic energy to useful shapes was no more difficult than the normal Ayorian child's game of hide-and-seek. But the adult Ayorian, though he could teleport himself about ten planetary diameters outward, would stOl have need for a ship when traveling across system or over galactic-wide distances, as well as need for direct action knowledge! similar to the other intelligent beings most likely to be encountered in the universe. Lack of complete linkag e in the echelon of tools plus the more natural faculties of indirect action led us to compromise. When it was possible to visualize the tool required to make the desired item, we made the tool first, then did What was necessary to use it in making the desired item. If we could not make the tool because of our insufficiency of knowledge, we used indirect action o make the item itself. Toby Randolph's first response to the Ayorian ship-building detisian was emotional in character; sober reflection on his part convinced him of its impossibility. "The drive," he said, "is essentially a one-hundred-per cent mass to energy (converter. Its action chamber must be surrounded by a field of polarization which can only be formed by collapsing energy layers to form yery dense materials. "This process," he continued, "can only be accomplished by manipulation of exceedingly strong electro-gravitic fields far beyond Ayorian capacity to build or control." T he day was hot and humid, so all plant and animal life was at peak activity. Now, of course, I realize that such temperature and humidity changes often adversely iaffect the non-telekmass human, causing short temper and illogical reasoning. Perhaps that was Toby Randolph's chief difficulty at the time. Then, too, I suppose I should have explained the Ayorian ability, other than mine, to reach below the molecular threshold with telekinetic energy. As it was, I assigned the problem to Ayorian children who, now knowing one of the uses to which the chamber of dense metal within which I was found after the crash of my parent's ship and which is always associated with a polarization barrier, re-shaped the chamber to Toby's demanding specifications. Our visitor became quite emotional oyer the incident. "You we in contact with a superior civilization I You are lying to me!" Only when the children created more of the dense metal would he believe; and, for the first time, it my prior discussions of direct versus indirect faculties at their face value. We developed a small mechanically generated telekmass field for Tony's self-protection so that he could journey safely away from the citadel. On every trip he would acclaim to me, "The colors are wrong. They should be green! There is no pattern, no continuity to the behavior of things! Seeds ripen, mature, and spring away too rapdily!" "When nourishment is available within the sphere of the flower's telekmass action in sufficient quantity to construct the seed, why should it wait for days?" I asked. Though trained in the arts of objectivity, he retained his basically emotional nature, it seemed. When I turned from the subject of Enithra flowers to the small Eman, an animal which is equally at home in water or on the land, he showed similar exasperation. The Eman had virtually no intelligence; its chief survival characteristic lay in its ability always to anticipate the teleported flight of certain seeds. When the seed arrived, the Eman found its sphere of influence weH within the range of the newly deposited seed. From there it was but a moment until the seed lay inside the Eman's stomach. "But there just can't be any way to knowl" Toby insisted. "Sometimes," I thought, "he is as stubborn in his way as the Ayor used to be in their wayl" Until the decision to build the ship, little attention had been placed on our planetary system or the stars beyond. Our planet Enithra has no moon. Although adult Ayorians could teleport # miles outward, air had to be teleported along with them. Only energy fields, stripped atoms and some few whole molecules, thinly scattered, were to be found there. Though lacking in light receptors, their ability to mass-sense below the molecular level gave them fine reception of energy groupings scattered throughout their sky, resulting IF in better knowledge of the stars and other energy sources than narrow range of visible light frequency alone might have done. I grew up with the knowledge that our planetary system consisted of five planets surrounding a huge sun in elliptical orbits. We were the fourth planet from the sun and before visiting other worlds, such as the one represented by our visitor, we wished to know our own planetary system better. nphe finished ship was a perfect duplicate of Tony Randolph's -- dim, long-tapered with severe geometric lines from head to tail, clusters of matter conversion chambers surrounding its tail and terminated with stacked propulsion units and other interesting, unusual-toEnithra features. "Later," I thought, "we Ayorians will create original forms!" Dingon, one of the Ayorians who had nearly reached his twinning period with the finish of the ship, was selected for our first trial run, though Toby Randolph protested that he should go. But the decision was to include only one human and one Ayor. The ship raised easily; we adjusted the molecules of our body to compensate for the pull of acceleration as the ship swept upward with ever-increasing velocity. What a unique experience it was for Dingon and me! Near us, we sensed the craft's solid state switching and other slight vibrations in the instrument board, the smooth flow of the air-exchanger and much other internal phenomenon. While far away, decreasing density of air molecules, made up of lighter and lighter fractions, swept past us. The biggest change was the sudden silence. I don't mean the audible kind of silences; I mean the lack of Enithra's plucking telekinetic fingers. For aU of Dingon's life, he had been exposed to the background of ever-seeking plant and animal life; and for eight of Enithra years, I had subconsciously countered these same probing fingers; but beyond the planet's atmosphere, at seventy miles, the planet's fingers decreased to nothing. I can only say the silence was fantastic. I could extend my mass sensitivity nearly double my usual forty miles; Dingon could increase half of our telekmass capacity had been unconsciously used to counteract Enithra life in our own selfprotection! I had half-way believed Toby Randolph when he said we were unique -- the only planet to use and develop indirect faculties. Planet five was a certain refutation of his statement. Unlike Enithra, Janet five was colder and its vegetation was not so profuse; also unlike Enithra, it had i huge ice caps at both of its poles. But like Enithra, all of its primitive life forms followed the indirect action principle. TX#e landed in its warmest zone,   near the equator. I sent my mass sensor up the steep cliff lying before our grounded craft and at the very top, lacking moisture and warmth as well as oxygen, were very primitive organisms. Their feeble search through the rocks for water, oxygen and minerals could be easily sensed. When they encountered minerals containing needed chemicals, they separated the molecule from its binding force and the rocks slowly but surely succumbed to the demands i of new life. As my mass-sensor followed down the high mountain side there were encountered ever-increasingly complex patterns of life. Throughout most of the planet, oxygen was mixed with combinations of nitrogen and hydrogen; the plant growths reflected the differences of both energy and atmosphere. "Someday," I thought, "life will become intelligent even here!" We scouted around the planet. With his great telekmass range, Dingon now knew it intimately, of course. Across the narrow, warm band which represented planet five's equator, was a form of life related to us. Where the Ayorian was shaped like a figure eight, his primitive counterpart on this planet was like two eights laid one over the other at right angles -- like Toby's description of a four-leaf clover. "Finding the true relationship between life of both planets should one day provide the Ayorian with many twinning problems," I thought. We pushed off from the fifth planet to explore the other three unknowns in our planetary system. Out in space, we were once again able to extend our mass sensors through approximately douSle their normal volume. Just for fun, Dingon and I teleported outside the ship. W took air with us and kept it under pressure. My light receptors of our stars in every direction; it was so beautiful I How I wanted to explain its sight to Dingon! He, in his turn, wanted very much to explain the fine sensitivity of energy patterns which he could sense below my threshold level! We passed the orbit of Enithra and swung in toward where planet three would soon be. We were peraway from Enithra's orbit when Dingon's far-probing mass sensor hit the telekinetic field. He knew immediately the nature of its strength. "Turn back -- quickly! " he shouted with panic in his thoughts. I flicked the switches with my mind rapidly heeding his cry; but as fast as I was, the new telekinetic IF field was faster. Long, thin, sensitive strands of telekinetic energy had been laid well beyond the orbit of the third planet. These strands, not unlike the mechanical traps of the dead Tepen, were set only to sense usable chemicals. When such was encountered, the full force of gome gigantic being impressed its will in that direction to grasp fully and teleport its prey. The field slugged us like some gigantic gravitational weS. m   field with every molecule of our beings. We could not carry ourselves and the ship, which was protected with its own mechanically generated field, against that alldemanding force. Dingon teleported us both to his now-shortened two hundred-thousand mile range, well beyond the reaoh of the bestial field. With only small amounts of air held telekinetically tight around us, miles of nearly empty space between us and Enithra. When I become moody, or otherwise emotional -- a state foreign to the biological Ayorians -- I tend to escape my troubles by letting my thinking processes dwell on Enithra and its beloved ecology. Loneliness in space and near death brought no exceptions to the rule. On Enithra there exists a tough mammal, which we call the Fervra, addicted to a world-swinging nomadic existence. Though there are few desert s and all of small consequence, the Fervra passes directly through these climatic zones without regard to consequences, unlike other mammals of equally short telekmass range. Whenever food becomes sparse, the Fervra teleports fats from its own body to its stomach sack, thus living on itself during famine periods. My mind now dwelled on the interesting habits of the Fervra as I let my body swing around and around, watching the stars circle about me. It was then the insight which saved our lives penetrated my conscious thought! "Will fat and protein from my larger body supply Dingon while he teleports us?" I wondered. I reached into the fat layers of my body and teleported thin layers into Dingon's stomach. Quickly realizing my purpose, he molded the ingredients to suit his own needs, then caused us to jump nearly half way home before all of my body fat was gone. I reached into my body again, taking liberally of my blood and this brought us nearly home. Now in weakened state, I reached feebly into the long stranded fibers of my big muscles selecting every hundredth strand. I remember no more, for I lost consciousness then! Even with Ayorian assistance, many months passed while my body mended. Not yet could the Ayorian mind repair the life cell itsdf and I had dangerously exhausted many of the organs of my body when supplying Dingon with the materials from which he could gain the tremendous energies needed to teleof space. 'T'he next time of grouping came and we puzzled over this apparently new form of life -- so tremendously powerful, it could reach grasp mass the size of our rocket. On this portion of Enithra, on this particular day, the weather was cool and the wind blew gently across the rapidly shifting plant forms. Toby Randolph, now dressed in what he called workclothes, sat near the grouping area, looking somewhat bug-eyed because of his ultra-violet glasses. High overhead in an arc as long as the horizon, weaving in several S-shaped curves across the sky, were the Ayor, clasping one another with cup to hemisphere. With my pitifully weak magnetic field attached to single cells in uncoordinated array, even I could feel the mighty pulsing of their joint field as permutations and combinations of individual Ayorian experiences moved swiftly hack and forth along the chain. " "What are they doing this time?" JToby asked. "Fve seen them like this before, but I still don't believe it." I knew his comments were merely rhetorical, for I had explained the grouping phenomenon many times before. "Listen, TobyT Soon their experiences will be completely shared and they will begin to question and make decisions." Booming like Enithra thunder as It rolls between peaks of broadly u-shaped valleys, their joint comments began: "Can Spork and Dingon elaborate on the giant telekinetic field of their trip?" Dingon passed bis personal experiences in detail along the chain and I confirmed his comments by verbal response, not having near the detail available to Dingon. "Would that giant field be a mechanically generated one created by the evil Tepen or organisms like the evil Tepen?" they asked in unison. Dingon's experience replied, but they still answered together: "No! The quality was different It was an organically generated field." "How far does the field extend Into space?" "Unknown." "What are its limitations?" "Unknown." "Can the joint power of our whole race handle the fiddE' IF "No I" was the joint reply. "Where is the beast located?" "Unknown." "What are the beast's characteristics?" "It is primitive; it is grasping, voraciously, blindly in hunger; it needs materials of all kinds -- metals protoplasms, chemicals and so forth; it is fantastically powerful -- far more so than anything previously imagined by the Ayor." The sun split its ultra-violet beams between Tepen towers when the Ayor grouping chain broke and I followed Toby Randolph into the Tepen chamber.  nphe remainder of the year  passed; I turned nineteen and the puzzle remained with us. Now the time of grouping was on us again and Toby was depressed again, having lost his chance, he thought, of returning home. Though I had probed both Toby Randolph's and Ayorian memories mercilessly for some clue, we just didn't have sufficient data upon which to build a decent conjecture. And, much like a year ago, Toby and I sat near Enithra's surface, while overhead across the horizon, doubled and re-doubled, were the linked Ayorians. We waited. Then with some respect to my limitations, the group spoke in unison: "We must re-structure the Tepen field which once held nearly the whole of the Ayor in captivity. We conceive this new, mindless entity to be our new racial twinning problem." Imagine! Once I had to force the Ayor to face their immediate Tepen of miles away, far stronger than the Ayor, was pronounced to be their racial twinning problem! How fast my brethren grewl m T only hoped the problem would not prove too great for us! All knew that tdekmass faculties reached deeply beyond the spatial structure of ordinary material concepts to tap "triggers" which caused discrete jumps of objects from point to point. This was why we labeled our faculties as being indirect instead of direct. Our problem was not so much to learn the Tepen trick of artificially inducing the field as to learn how to strengthen it Our nervous structure was capable of assimilating large quantities of chemically formed energy which we used to open the door, so to speak, to reach through to the triggers. Once the triggers were reached, virtually zero energy was involved in the teleportation of mass or in the communication back to us on the state and structure of the mass. A precise scientific statement of the trigger phenomenon involves the complexities of shrisltiiig space between points A and B by means of slowing all energies between the two points to some limiting factor -- exactly the opposite from the phenomenon observed whenever we note the ultra-violet shift of a far off galaxy as the universe expands in toto. When all energy within a particular sphere of influence has slowed sufficiently, space contracts and two points become contiguous, but only from particular points of view. We Ayorians, by means of indirect faculties, could trigger the phenomenon in both directions. Our chief problem, then, was in opening the door, after which no energy at all was required to maintain its effect. On Enithra, the tiny one-celled life teleported nutrients as far as one hundred cellular diameters; yet, it could do nothing to resist the tiny water creatures which teleported the one-celled life to its own The one-celled solution for survival was to increase its twinning rate, multiplying itself swiftly. Meanwhile the Yal, which fed on such one-celled life, could in no way resist the Ries; and, the Ries could not resist the voracious, stupid Cien who in turn could not resist the predatory Ettel. Nowhere in the ecological niche of Enithra life did one miss a thread leading always to the Ayor on top. Now, in our own planetary system, it appeared that some unintelligent entity was superior to the nphe children discovered the first clue. When asked to create the dense material with its associated shield of polarization for Toby Randolph's benefit, a new game had become traditional among the children. Whoever could create the densest material was declared its winner. On a certain day, Nltque lost track of his created mass. Piqued with curiosity, the children asked Nitque to repeat the phenomenon while they observed. Some thirty children were holding the tiny pinpoint of dense material as it snapped out of its spatial orientation through a minute "hole", but the children's minds followed easily finding it among the telekinetic triggers. Mass, another form of energy, when condensed to its ultimate, stressed the fabric of space sufficiently to open normal space to these telekinetic triggers, and, it seemed the more mass per unit of volume, the more stress; hence, the more trigger access and the more field power, but not in exactly a proportional relation. We stored the heaviest possible mass just short of the point of diminishing return in our next ship. By attaching the Tepen-type machine to our spatial holes we hoped IF t# generate a truly strong telekinetic field capable of resisting the fantastic being of outer space. Nonetheless, when the time came, Dingon and I prepared nutrients to hang around our bodies should we have need of returning in the same awkward manner as before. The sun was just rising above the horizon as our new ship rose flawlessly as before. The trip, though of interest to such newcomers to space as we, held no new phenomenon and we progressed well until touched the beast at the fringes of the beast's searching tendrils. It was then I felt the full power of the beast as he sprang toward us. Dingon pushed our prepared dense mass over its spatial threshold, the Tepen machinery caught, generating its strong telekinetic field and I thought: "Now we shaS see what happens when the irresistable force meets the immovable object." Unfortunately we were not exactly immovable! Stronger and stronger the beast's field became, while our field stayed at constant strength. Hour after hour we crept through his field, never daring to relax. Near the orbit of the third planet, the beast's intensity jumped even higher in easily felt increments; it became apparent to both of us that our present equipment was not yet strong enough. I mentally snapped the controls, causing us to turn; the beast, perhaps instinctively sensing .our purpose, doubled and redoubled its efforts. T Tnder heavy attack from the  beast, both Dingon and I felt we were participating in some gigantic squeezing game; though we added our own puny efforts to those of our machinery, the beast's resources seemed endless. Slower our ship traveled, though its fuel converted to energy at maximum rate. Was this finally to be my end? I wondered if all our personal efforts, our life's evolutionary purpose, was merely to provide chemical feed to an insatiable monster? If so, to what ultimate purpose? Was this to be the answer to my twinning problem: What is my true purpose in life? Jerking my mind from such thoughts, I asked Dingon to increase the rate at which fuel was being converted, hoping that the chamber could stand the strain. The ship shuddered, not end to end, or side to side, but molecule by molecule; and we could sense shudder. The conflicting telekinetic fields caused the new phenomenon. But the ship leaped forward successfully to leave the grasp of the beast behind and we felt great relief as we sensed the laist of his tendrils behind us. Our sigh was premature for the struggle had had its effect on every atom under our control; part of the ship's atoms had vibrated in one direction while adjacent atoms vibrated in opposite directions. Weaknesses developed, holes grew, materials pitted; then the ship itself began to fall apart. With all our being, Dingon and I struggled to hold the ship together to no avail. Then it failed and we were out in space again, without ship. This time sufficiently braced with nutrients hanging around our bodies, we leisurely teleported pur way home. Our trip was not a total loss. We had penetrated much deeper, for one thing. And another phenomenon correlated in our minds: first was the case of Toby Randolph and his rapidly sickening "house masters." At the time I had thought the valley of their landing lacked minerals and other easy nutrients causing the valley's life forms to leap on the ship as a new, easy source. Now I wondered if Toby's ship had traveled within grazing distance of the monster I If so, just a fleeting touch could easily have explained the rapid depletion of vital proteins and minerals from both humans and ship. Confirmation could be obtained from Toby and his ship's computers and their records. But what about my owti parents' flight? Was my very presence on Enithra caused by the beast and his action against my parents' ship? We re-computed the relative positions of all planets as they had been two years ago as well as the position of Toby's ship. He shad indeed grazed the fringes of the beast By simple deduction, this placed the monster beyond the third planet, further in toward the sun. Since nothing capable of being sensed lay between the orbits of the third and second planet, this raised an even more astounding conjecture; for if the monster Was on the second planet, it was capable of extending its telekmass sensor some # miles in radius. We Ayorians, even as a complete grouping entity, were yet thousands of generations away from that kind of range and power! IV W e Ayorians had indeed selected a worthy racial twinning probleml The building of ships had almost become a kind of instinctive reflex -- so much of that chemical in this quantity, structured just so; add a little of this; hold it in a certain way; weld the metal together telekinetically -- and so the third ship was built. If was constructed similar to the second ship, only stronger and bigger. Our whole intent this time was IF to learn about the beast's limitations and exact location. If the beast were located on a planet, two possible means of its control were suggested. At our present state of technological development, everyone realized that any thought of On our third trip, Dingon and I skirted the edge of the beast's sensory tendrils. Dingon cast his halfuntil just barely grazing the beast's, then signalled me to reverse direction rapidly before the beast could launch an all out attack. From every direction we repeated the procedure until our spatial map was complete. Take a ball and place a hundred arrows around it pointing directly toward the ball's center. Now move the ball in an egg shaped orbit around, say, a bright lamp. Keep in mind the locus of points of the arrows around the egg-shaped path representing successive time points. This spatial graph made it quite clear that the beast was located on planet two. Since the beast was bracketed between the first and third planet, at certain times of the year the beast was capable of reaching either planet, probably to strip them of their life and minerals until relative orbital positions changed. Our ship had reached inside the orbit of tiie third planet Based on this knowledge, phis estimates of the beast's strength, we planned ahead. The new ship was to be capable of landing on either the first or third planet without undue stress from the beast of planet two. It had to be huge, since the mass of the required dense metal used for triggering our enlarged telekinetic field required abnormal structural bracings. To avoid stripping our beautiful planet of Enithra for minerals in the quantities needed for our new ship, most of the shipbuilding Ayor moved to the fifth planet. Within a matter of weeks, assembled in orbit and nearly twenty miles long, the engineering feat which would assist us in capturing the beast of planet two was finished. Nearly one thousand adult Ayorians were loaded aboard the new ship to assist in handling and tipping the dense mass which was to provide us with our extra-powerful protective fidd. Other Ayorians operated and sensed the special telekinetic control instruments which controlled the ship. Vf#e swung outward with pon  derous slowness entirdy unlike our earlier trips. We plodded onward until we swung around planet three at approximately seventy miles up, now just barely able to sense the beast's frantic efforts to grasp us. Bdow us was IF the most fantastic sight; the planet had no gaseous envelope, no water, methane or ammonia. There were no features anywhere -- nothing exeept a tiny rounded ball of radioactive materials -- ingredients unwanted by the beast of planet two. Planet one, too, proved to consist of beast-swept radioactive debris; and it now became clear why the beast extended itself into empty space so far in search of random debris to satisfy its hunger. Long ago, it had used every non-radioactive ingredient of both planets one and three! The return to Enithra was uneventful, though filled with anticipation for our next stage of preparations. Our cumbersome ship was left high in orbit while we teleported to Enithra's surface. I made my first jump from sixty miles up, then fell free for a few minutes, receiving such an exhilarating experience I vowed to repeat the game again during more peaceful times. Down below me, shimmering across the hundreds of miles of planet, was the violet and ultraviolet valleys of Enithra. On one side of me was Enithra's only large body of water; in front of me was the wandering river near our captured citadel; and everywhere I could see as well as sense, were the shifting, jumping changes of animal and plant life I loved so well. It made me feel good. Mathematical computations shewed the beast to be of planetary size. Apparently Hfe based upon the principles of indirect action was common to our whole planetary system since it was found on planets two, five and four. It was not unreasonable to suppose that planets one, two and three had also developed to our form of Kfe. During evolutionary branchings some mindless creature had become dominant on planet two, where its voracious appetite led it to consume not only all other Kfe but all except the most useless of demental materials. As the being grew in size, telekinetic structures must have been formed internally to support its fantastic volume while internal indirect action sensory organs must have developed to form and speed nutrients from one portion of its huge bulk to another once they arrived at each receptor site. TX#hen the mindless creature had  ' consumed all nutrients on its own planet, or even before this happened, it must have had sufficient telekinetic power to reach across space to its nearest neighbor, planet one, at certain times of the year. Then having voraciously swept planet one clean of aD useful materials, it turned its blind insatiable appetite toward the more distant planet three. One could easily imagine how it must have struggled time and again to reach the more distant planet, always failing but, in its drive to live, always learning new means for focusing ami reinforcing its telekinetic pseudopods. Then one day, at the proper time of year, a tip of its reaching finger touched planet three's surface, after which an avalanche of materials followed back into its hollowed belly until finally even planet three was swept dean of all but the most unusable radio-active debris. What then? Planet four -- Enithra, of course! But Enithra was so far distant from planet two that hundreds of thousands of years must pass while the beast learned to sweep space for atom-sized debris garnished occasionally by meteorite or chance space-ship, collecting only enough nourishment to maintain life; never enough to pick the Enithra plum beyond. The radio-active debris unwanted by the beast, though small, proved sufficiently dense to provide the base upon which our telekmass protective screens could be assembled. The dense mass which would provide us with the required power, once pushed through normal space, had been scooped from the bowels of our own planet five. The residue of planets one and three followed orbits which sometimes caused one or the other to be far beyond the beast's range. But always, at least one of the covering fields surrounded the beast and sometimes both. Once the beast was successfully caged, we landed on its leathery surface with impunity. Unlike anything ever before imagined by us. Ayor, the beast was perfectly spherical and of nearly three times the volume of Enithra. Ayorian faculties were necessarily limited to the beast's surface. Had we been so foolhardy as to probe our protective field, the beast, from his own interior, would certainly be instantly in command. Speculations on novel internal telekmass faculties continued to explain both the unnatural size and perfect sphericity of the beast. TT ad we really captured the beast? " Was it fastened there now -- would it solve its new evolutionary challenge within a short time, to rise again in renewed wrath and energy? What could such tiny energy units as we Ayorians actually do to something as gigantic and ancient as this beast? We were incapable city to announce its successful capture! How long before chance events tore our trap apart? A particularly heavy meteor of just the right vector could easily tear through our feeble physical object barrier surrounding our telekmass generators IF on either of the planets one or three. What then? Would the beast find sufficient intelligence and means somehow to destroy us after all? Who knew what the beast was really capable of doing? When I could not understand all the workings of the tiny Ayorians whose bodies were only half as tall as mine and half as wide, could I, or any other Ayorian truly expect to know the inner workings of a beast three times the volume of our whole planet? I felt uneasy about our solution but recognized it as the best that could be done at our stage of technical development. "Someday," I thought, "we Ayorians must learn how to destroy this beast. What skill and technology Is ours is not yet capable of its sure (destruction! " Toby Randolph found our beautiful violet and ultra-violet jungle with its myriads of teleporting insects and animal life, depressing in spirit. He was therefore delighted with my decision to return with him to civilization. Our first Ayorian problem became evident when I gave Arl, one of the twinned children of my former partner Dingon, permission to accompany us. Always before, for thousands of generations back, we Ayors had been restricted to one planet and each year aU Ayor except me joined in the grouping. If I were to remove one of the grouping Ayors, would the race lose some of its evolutionary impetus? Further, would Arl himself still be capable of personal twinning advancement when no longer flee to join the annual grouping? Many weeks ware spent contemplating these questions while Toby fretted and fussed in his anxiety to return home. I was now slightly over nineteen Enithra years old and anxious to continue with my own twinning problem which I had taken from Erne: What was my purpose hi life and who was I? Yet, I couldn't press my own twinning with possible sacrifice to either Arl or my whole race. est damage to any of my brothers and while deep in thought, I wandered out of the dtadel to the cool of the beautiful forest surrounding us. My mind relaxed while my body, using its muscles in direct action, moved continuously from point to point along the cool, mossy floor. At my feet I could perceive the mass-sensing tendrils of the jungle moss reaching below the ground, jerkily searching for mineral, water and oxygen. Some nutrients were easily teleported to proper portions of the tiny plant while the sweet odors of its flowers changed texture from moment to moment and its seeds grew to mature and burst forth in hew seed of teleported flight, landing, hopefully, in rich soil to begin the cycle anew. Here and there I sensed the small mindless insect, called the let, which, like the Eman, placed itself exactly near the expected arrival point of maturing seed to wait for itsappearance; then reaching out with its own tiny mass sensor, R quickly teleported portions of the newly created seed to its stomach. As I physically walked through the telekinetic plucking of other life forms I wondered: "Since each ecological niche has been filled on Enithra, and we Ayor are the highest, why are we afraid to separate from the group? Even the tiny seeds of the moss at my feet spread outward in new and different directions seeking the opportunity to spread its kind in new places. What is so unique about the Ayor as to cause such strong need for grouping each Enithra cycle?" As my body continued to practice direct action motion, my mind roamed from jungle object to abstract thought in relaxed, random order. I let my mind soak in the whole of the jungle surrounding me to the very limit of my forty-mile radius. I could sense Ayorian children at play in one direction while in another I could watch the predatory Ettel teleport from spot to spot to come within range of its custdmary dinner. # On my right, perhaps a half a mile away, was a whitish puffstick growth rare to this part #f the jungle. In some little state of curiosity, I focused my attention on its slow growth. Its customary nourishment was oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, and water from the air. I sensed it reaching for these ingredients; then, as it teleported each to itself, it quickly reassembled the molecules in complex patterns to farm new parts of itself. As I walked and observed, the puffstick grew ever-larger but at a rate much slower than most other Enithra plant growth. When it became as big as my head, it teleported all parts of itself; some of the fragments passed completely out of my forty-mile sensing range. It had a truly remarkable range when compared to its other weaker capabilities! The portions landing within my sensing field began to grow as had its parent, except for those which found themselves providing nourishment for other insects and stronger plants. Then it was that the puffstick activity triggered my next thoughts: "How will the Ayor successfully advance in their group twinning cycle if they are to be limited to the size of one grouping? Since they place their bodies one to the other, forming a long chain consisting of all the Ayor, eventually their population will number so many that the time involved in IF sharing each experience in every permutation will take longer than the total time period between grouping cycles I" Tj'or generations the Ayor had  numbered no more than one hundred thousand; when the Tepen were defeated, the Ayor grew swiftly in number. Not only were they no longer preyed upon by Tepen, but individuals were twinning more rapidly as they individually undertook new challenges of direct action principles; now, they numbered better than #. I knew my reasoning must bn correct; but could I convince the Ayor? Next grouping was nearly a year away, and this was so long to wait in pursuit of my twinning problem! Also, why did the Ayor meet only once each year? CotdJ they successfully group whenever desired instead of periodically? My musings continued into the dusk; my thoughts stirred endlessly throughout the night. In the morning I hesitatingly and in stumbling manner posed these bask questions to my brethren. They responded by tests and found they could group at will; and while another long cherished Ayorian tradition fell, from high overhead in the cod of the evening, their newest grouping nearly hid all of the stars as they jointly reviewed my newest point of philosophy far into the next day. Their group decision emphatically favored distribution and dispersion of separate Ayorian nuclei as far and as wide as possible throughout the stars. I was greatly pleased, for now we Ayorians would survive and grow in many new and successful patterns! Tnstfead of just Ari, then, I took nearly one hundred thousand of my brethren. We built a new, larger ship, then took our leave from Enithra. Now free of the dangerous probing tentacles of the beast of planet two, we directed our course through the center of our system toward the star Quations, the home star of Toby Randolph. He, of course, was mightily pleased; yet I wondered if his unnaturally quiet ways and increased anxiety didn't forecast difIf You're a Subscriber --  -- and if the address on your subscription copies does not contain your Zip Code number -- please drop us a line to let us know what it is. And If You Aren't -- Why Not Subscribe Today?   the orbit of the fifth planet before I tripped the so-called hyperspatial drive. To Toby Randolph the phenomenon was one of silence, motionless and lightlessness. To us Ayorians, the sensation was interesting, stimulating, surprising and otherwise opposite from Toby's experiences. Once free of Eaithra's eternally plucking telekmass fingers, our indirect faculties doubled, mine to eighty miles while others reached its. We held our senses outward prior to switching the deepspace drive, sensing infrequent molecules moving swiftly across our field of motion. But once hyperdrive switches were tripped, we suddenly sensed the trigger phenomenon which is involved in our activation of mass sensing and other telekinetic phenomenon. There is no direct action phenomenon capable of describing the experience. First, we were sensing matter in and around the space ship by means of these triggers, then we were able to sense the triggers them- selves. Toby Randolph's civilization had not consume time, while hyper-drive did. We entered the Quations system Uneventfully. Toby Randolph's enthusiasm was contagious. He was (ebullient, bubbling over with thoughts, words and anticipation for his civilization. My fellow Ayorians, too, were excited. Soon they would fulfill the grouping decision to grow and to face the natural barriers in the outer universe, far beyond the Enithra system. How did Spork fed? I was as naturally stimulated by the excitement around me. Who wouldn't be? And I was certainly curious about Toby's civilization as well as the biological source of my origin. Without question, the twinning problem I had accepted from Eme lay ahead, and this, too, prompted a great enthusiasm. Down deep inside, though, Spork, the Ayorian moron, thought of his lush Enithra valleys. As to any other Ayorian, home is always Enithra! do WRtre? developed by direct action means A , artlcles.wks piays?' And ## alone a pheaoewaon of indirect action which taev called hyperfree evaluation and report. Or reJ quest full particulars. It will be nice space. to have you with us. But one difference was but daniel s. mead. Literary Agent standing; natural teleportation aid #  D# " lFC #   N Y # # IF An IF First Each month If brings you a new writer, never before published. This month's Is Robert Weinberg, a #-yearold New Jersey graduate student in mathematics. He's the president of one science fiction club and past president of another, and his hobbies have been largely devoted to reading and collecting science fiction. He has been writing since he was #. We're sure you'll be glad to know there will be more stories by him in the near future. The Pale Horsemen rode again -- and now there were Five  T lived again I How many years it had been since my last revival I had no way of knowing. Nor did I care. All that mattered was that I lived again. Destruction walked again with death, to come hurtling from the void. The Four who were my brothers rode the skies, whispering in their harsh voices, welcoming me back to the living. Disease called to me. " Brother, you have come to mount again? Will you ride with us, share our glories, crush those who seek to oppose us? Ride the night winds with us, brother!"  But of the four, Disease was the one whom I liked the least. His way was wasteful, never ceasing. He took strong men and made them weak. He was the coward of the four. So I answered him not. Soon his horse could not keep up with the pace of my steed, the starship Terror . Next to approach me was Famine. "Do you ride to destroy the crops, oh mightiest of all, my brother? Together, shall we make the worlds of men tremble again under our hoofs? Forget this mission of yours. Abandon the fools who bring you back to life only when they need your powers. Leave them, desert them. Come ride with us. We four are feared, but the five of us would be Gods! Ride with us, brother!" His argument could not sway me, for the automatic reflexes installed in my body would destroy my consciousness immediately upon the mission. I had tried many times in the past, but those who created me knew too well the lusts which drove me. So, I rode onward, passing by Famine. Huge, powerful War was the third to come alongside my ship as it began to spiral down to the planet of my destination. The stupid foe, dim-witted but so very powerful. Once he began to ride, no one had ever been able to stand in his path. No one, except me. "Brother!" he cried out in anger. "Stop. I command you to return. You strive to cheat me of my due. Battle is brewing on this world below. It is not for you to upset my strivings. Go back, I tell you. Yon are one of us, but you work for those who oppose our aims. Go back!" I laughed at him. I knew that he could not harm me, for I was as powerful as he, if not more so. And he knew it too. Every time I rode, he threatened. And every time, he moved out of my path. "Go, my brother," I called to him, not unkindly. "There are many other worlds on which wars rage. This one could be too costly. It must be stopped, and only I can do this. Begone." Like mists before my eyes, the first three riders dissolved into nothingness. Already, the Terror was roaring down into the planet's atmosphere. The automatic controls had already taken over. They would land the ship in a pre-designated spot, where it would not easily be found. My thoughts were on an entirely different subject. A final rider had come galloping out of the darkness. The cowl which covered his features did not muffle his voice, the sound of crying winds. "So, we ride together, again, brother. I have waited long for your return." "There has been a long peace?" "Three hundred years," he replied, sweeping out with his scythe. "My blade has grown dull with just normal oiling. It will be good to drench it with life. Even I had to shudder at the way my brother turned a phrase. For I knew well the oil that his scythe used. No matter. Together we came riding down to this unsuspecting world. t times, I wondered if the cowled figure who walked beside me in that blue forest of giant plants was real or just the ramblings of a half-crazed mind. When I had first died, and part of my brain was transferred to this machine, had I been secretly brought to believe that such beings as the Four Horsemen really existed? Were they just a mental compensation created by my memory banks to provide IF the companionship that a man who lived only when he was needed desperately craved. Or were they real, not dream figures, but ancient and powerful spirits? A man had never truly died and been brought back to life. Nor did any man ever exist with all the censors and moral codes in his mind completely destroyed, his only function. I was a destroyer, the first and only God of Destruction ever created. If the Horsemen did exist, would they not consider me their brother? The real and the unreal had long ago blended into one and the same. The answer to my puzzlings was no longer very important, merely the random thoughts of a freak machine. I could see Death, but to all others he was invisible and intangible. Yet when a man died, I saw Death let his mighty scythe swing. There is no answer to the unanswerable. The planet was totally dissimilar to Earth. The atmosphere was a mixture of various poisonous gases. This bothered me little, as I do not breathe. Why I had been sent had been fed into me via mempry units as I was returned to life on the voyage thru sub-space to this world. Earth was beginning to expand its empire into this section of the galaxy. The humanoids of this world, the Ccern, had been at first quite friendly. They had no use for the Earth-type worlds in this area, anyway, as our atmosphere was as poisonous to them as theirs was to us. A long and useful period of cooperation between planets seemed in the making. That was until a new leader took over control of the government. Trre # and his cohorts refused to let any Earth colonists settle the planets in the Ccern sector of space. He had deliberately set to force Earth into a costly war, unless certain terms of his were met. The alien knew that it would be cheaper for the Terran empire to make concessions to his government than fight a war hundreds of light years away from the mother world. What Trre did not know was of my existence. Death's low whisper broke me out of my reverie. "There are men up ahead?" The question signified humanoid beings, but not fully so. Was this a true question, or just subconscious compensation. "Yes, they are men," I answered. Scythe held low, Death disappeared in the darkness of the night. I crept forward alone. Beneath me, everywhere my hands touched, wherever my bare skin touched the ground, life died. My trail was an easy one to follow -- thin line of death and destruction. T here were four of them, soldiers by their uniforms and the weapons they carried. Probably part of a large search for my space ship. I cared little whether they found it or not. When I left, it would not be by secrecy, if I left at all. They were taller than I, and very manlike in appearance. Only the absence of any nose or nostrils gave them an alien appearance. This made my job all the easier. It was These beings could almost be called men, thus putting them under my domain. From across the small clearing in which they stood, I saw Death waving his scythe. I walked out of the brush and into the open. They didn't know what to do. Since I seemed to be unarmed and quite helpless before their weapons and the safety of odds, they let me approach without showing any great fear. One of them reached for the radio device clipped to his belt. "We have just found a survivor of that alien vessel, Commander Ywwe," he reported in the sing-song language which was part of my mempry banks. "Yes, sir, alone and obviously harmless. There is one Strange thing, sir. He does not seem to need any breathing apparatus. Is not our atmosphere supposed to be deadly to these Earthlings ?" As he spoke, I kept on approaching. I was in luck. General Ywwe was one of the ruling cartel which I was sent to destroy. Already, the instruments in my chest had located the broadcast point of his transmitter. It was time for me to move into action. The soldier with the radio turned to his companions. The man had just switched off the communicator. This made my task even easier. Now the commander would have no warning of my approach. He would not learn of the patrol's death until I revealed it to him myself. "The General says that we are to detain the alien until a medical team can get here." I chuckled. The medical team would have been quite shocked if they could exam me. But I had other plans. By now I had come face to face with two of the four men. Their weapons raised, they appeared slightly nervous, but not afraid. Death swung his scythe into the back of one of the two as I reached out and touched his arm. He dropped to the earth, dead, the poison fed from my fingertips into The others raised their guns in horror, but for them it was too late. I pursed my lips and whistled. The half computer part of my brain took over the sound, raising it to just the right pitch. Three aliens crumpled as Death cut them down. Their brains were jelly, destroyed by the precise high frequency sound that I had just emitted. Death looked at me, his cowl flung back. "Tonight, brother, we live again," he chuckled, his eye sockets gleaming horribly. My grin matched his toothy one. "Tonight," I answered, "the evil IF quiver. The world trembles. Men huddle in their caves with fear. Tonight, I am master. Let my enemies beware. I have felt my power, and know that I am as strong as old. Now aloft, to the camp of the fool they call General. Away, for Destruction does ride!" 'T'he camp of my enemies laid below me. Death whispered in my ear. "The structure with the force screen around must be the place of the commander." "I too have eyes, bony brother. It is too well lit to try to land now. Come, let us destroy this camp of our enemy. Oil your blade." Together we swooped down on the unsuspecting camp. The antinoxious fumes issued from my gravs throughout my body propelled me like a streak of dark lightning. Every man I touched died, every one who heard my call also. My very breath was destruction, as mouth. The laser beam where my left eye should have been burned down those few who tried to flee. I killed without mercy, young and old, male and female. Those who begged for mercy died as swiftly as those who tried to fight me. Only the general, inside his force screen, remained alive. His radioed calls for help went unanswered as my tracking apparatus blocked out every message he sent. By the time I called for him, the man was in a state of near shock. Trembling he watched me approach the force screen. My fingers went out and touched it. Energy flared for seconds and then went out. I was through. The general didn't even bother to raise his weapon. He knew that if the force screen could not stop me, no mere hand weapon could. "Who or what are you?" he asked in a voice trambling with fear. "No man can walk through an energy screen. No man can destroy an entire command of imperial soldiers. You interferred with my radio signals!" His voice was rising higher and higher. "Who are you? What are you?" .I laughed. I laughed the laughter of the damned. "Men have spoken of me many times. Legends tell of Four Horsemen -- Death, Famine, Disease and War. I am their brother, the strongest of all. I am... Destruction." "Mad!" screamed the man in the high pitched voice of the insane. "The world is mad, the universe is mad." He raised his weapon to his forehead. Death raised his scythe. But I still needed the General. My hand moved with the speed of the swiftest machine. The laser gun that the General held rumpled under the force of my machinedriven fingers. "You cannot die," I mocked. "Your life is mine." T I he General was in a state of shock. He could do nothing, say nothing. His whole world had been destroyed before his eyes. The false skim that coated my body fooled him. If I had been shaped like any other robot or android, he might have been able to comprehend such destruction. And even then, he would not have been able to credit his eyes, for no ordinary robot could be programmed for such a complex action as destruction in such varied manner. Only a combination of the two, the mentality of man, harsh, destructive and ruthless, combined with the sheer power and ability of the machine could be such an agent of destruction. "Your command base?" I asked in a tone that could not be denied. "Where is it? Is General Trre in charge? Answer me, slave, or feel my wrath." In reality, I could not torture him in the least. I could only kill. Everything about me was for quick, ruthless extermination. I was not programmed to be able to kill slowly. But the General did not know this. Listlessly he told me what I desired to know. I nodded. Death grinned and let his scythe arc as I touched the man's arm. The blaring communicator reminded me that my enemies would be prepared for my attack. But I was not worried. My mission was proceeding as planned. Turning on full force from my anti-gravs, I speed across the countryside. When I was only about five miles from the now dead camp, rockets roared out of the sky and blew the area to atoms. The radiation bathed my artificial skin, adding new energy to my storage banks. Smiling, I flew on, Death winging along beside me. What was the truth? Was I an emissary, or Destruction? I knew my mission was that of terror, destroying all those who sought to stop me. I was one of the Horsemen but in a way, opposed them. For my mission prevented their evils. I killed the rulers, the ones who created wars and brought about famines. Death rode with me, taking the crumbs, but if I did not ride, he would have soaked his scythe in rivers of blood. I prevented war, for I destroyed all those who strove to start it. But if I worked for peace, why did I get such satisfaction less, so terribly destructive? The Four Horsemen, whom I thwarted again and again, were my friends, yet I strove against them. I died many times, but each time I lived again. Why didn't I have any memory except for these missions -- missions that took place over the span of hundreds of years? I was not immortal -- or was I? I had died a hundred times, but yet I still lived. As the general asked, what was I? As I flew through the night air,  I analyzed all my circuits. Everything was in perfect order. I IF was a fool to say that I knew nothing about myself. In reality, I knew everything, just could not admit the truth. Take a man who had just died, keep his brain alive with superscience until a new body was ready, and then transfer the now slightly altered organ into the machine which was to be its new home. Alof the being's nature, make destruction its only goal. Control it by a small computer, ever linked with Earth. One that directed the half-man, half-machine in its tasks. Invent the most destructive machine ever built, form it so that it appeared human even though its insides are stuffed with myriads of monstrous machines of death. Create a destroyer, a fifth Horseman. Half mad from brain damage, nearly insane from lack of will or desires, entirely deadly with an armament capable of destroying a world -- this was my identity. Dormant with my life flow at low ebb until I was needed, immortal and nearly indestructible, I was nearly a God, but not even a man. Once I had an identity, once I was humachine. The Fifth Rider: Destruction. I came upon the supreme headquarters of Commander Trre during the late morning. His base was located in the middle of the main city of the world. I knew that I could never pass as a Ccern, but I also knew that every delay made my mission more difficult. I could not just destroy the entire area, for I was programmed against wanton while I pondered. I knew that there was but one answer. I would have to wait till nightfall, no matter what the consequences. Time passed so very slowly. The planet rotated once every thirty hours, so my wait was both dull and long. I had no way to amuse myself, for the only emotion I felt was satisfaction when I had killed. I rechecked my circuits a hundred times. Death had drifted off, for he was never idle. I knew that he would return once I started to move. Finally, twilight came, and then night. The planet had no moon, and the starlight was not very bright. Silently I flew into the city. As I came to a stop, hovering over the Commander's palace, Death came gliding out of the shadows. "They expect you, brother." "No great surprise. But they don't know what to expect. Nor when I come, or my powers, other than that I am very dangerous." I laughed. "They do not know that tonight they face Destruction." The palace had a steel roof. My laser eye cut a small gap in the metal, and I then proceeded to widen the opening with my hands, twisting away the jagged metal. "I create my own entrance, brother," I called to Death. "They could not be prepared for that. T was right and wrong. The en tire palace was set so that any destruction or damage would set off alarms. The hall into which I had come filled up swiftly with soldiers. I whistled, but with no effect. These men were all wearing space suits. They could not be reached by sound or touch. The poison in my fingers was useless. I swallowed the poisonous gas in my lungs. My laser eye was my only weapon, and they had lasers which they used to fight back. My energy shield was at maximum strength, but I knew that it could not stop coherent light for any length of time. I knew that my masters on Earth would never let this body be captured. The selfdestruct mechanism within me had probably started. My personality already part of a huge memory bank on Earth, would not die. I was immortal. This body would perish. And I had not completed my mission. I retreated steadily before their onslaught. My laser took a toll of them, but for every one that died, two others took his place. Death laughed as he swung his scythe. "We have not lost yet, my brother. Look who watches!" General Trre! The fool was watching the battle from behind an   energy shield at the other end of the hall. He was guarded, but that did not worry me. With the General dead, his party would never be able to hold together. I had to destroy him before I was destroyed. There was only one chance left. My antigravs roared in protest as I went hurtling across the floor. A laser bolt penetrated my screen, fusing my legs into scrap. Already I could feel the machinery in my stomach crumbling under the acid which was to bring about my end. The General did not realize my intent until it was too late. I flashed through his energy screen just as my absorbers gave way. I was blind, with half my machinery gone, but my radar sense still located the retreating man. Death waved me onward, as laser beams from Trre's guards struck me again and again. But I would not be stopped. I flung myself at the man, holding him in a grip of iron. A grip that could not be broken. They couldn't use their lasers now. The General shrieked in terrible pain as the corrosive acid in my chest burst through and covered his body. Mortal flesh could not stand up against such destruction. The General died in seconds. My mission was finished. "Until we ride again, Death I" I cried, and willed the final act of destruction. My own.    IF IF  Serial The dream world Tamisan had made was out of control -- and her only escape lay in finding a man who did not exist in that if-reality. dreamer on the world of Ty-Kry. sky-tower arid, instructed by his roving arid can only find adventure -- one based on what might have in the dreams she can make and happened if Ty-Kry had not ddmitted the space culture and joined the Confederacy . At the first dream session , however, things are not normal . Kas is asked to join the dream she and Starrex will share , using a new dream linking machine . She falls into a dream at once -- but it is all wrong. She is alone, and the world is strangely real . She seems Unable to control events. It is a culture filled with ancient magic and gods , and she is the Mouth of Olava, a seer ess in the service of the nobility. Summoned to foretell the future, she finds herself possessed and capable of performing the ritual. She predicts that spacemen are about to invade the planet and that it must be saved by a champion -- whom she realizes is Starrex. Shaken, she tries to break the dream, but cannot. She knows she is anchored by Starrex, and perhaps by Kas, both of whom' may be anywhere in this world. To return, she must find them. Then she is summoned to the great inner city -- a wreckage in the prediction. She does, but the Over-Queen is not impressed. They knew the spaceship was coming -- and there have been other spaceships, which they have destroyed in the past. She demands that Tamisan produce this champion. By an uncanny ritual that Tamisan somehow knows, she does locate  Starrex among the OverQueen's guards. But the OverQueen promptly orders him and Tamisan into prison. Here he occupies the body of an other-self already accused of treason. Under Tamisan' s prodding, he admits he is Starrex and Hawarel, fused into double memories, and it was his confusion by the Starrex memories that led to his seeming treason. She tries to break the dream with him, but still fails. She feels that it can only be done when they find Kas, whom she believes must be among the crew of the coming spaceship. Later, they are summoned under guard. The Over-Queen intends to meet the spaceship when it lands and is taking Hawarel along as the "champion" Tamisan predicted. They go out where the wrecks of other spaceships lie, to wait for the latest one. Seeing the fearsome weapons on those ships, she cannot understand how they were subdued. But now the Over-Queen plans to send Hawarel out to face a ship with only a sword against it. And with him, she announces that Tamisan must go to share his fate. As the OverQueen smiles mockingly after delivering this obvious death sentence to them, the great ship comes dawn on a trail of fire and lands, awaiting them! IF IX B y the light of those flames, the whole plain was illumined. Beyond stood the hulk of the unfortunate spacer which had last planeted here. And there, drawn up in lines was a large force of spearmen, crossbowmen, officers with the basket-hilted weapons at their sides. However, as they stood they might seem a guard of honor for the Over-Queen, who sat raised above the rest on a very tall chair cart -- certainly not an army in battle array. And those in the ship -- they might well look contemptuously on such archaic weapons as useless. How had those of Ty-Kry taken the other ship and her crew? By wiles, treachery -- as the victims might declare -- or by dever tricks, suggested that part of Tamisan who was the Mouth of Olava. The surface of the ground boiled away under the descent rockets. Then the bright fires vanished, leaving the plain in semi-darkness until their eyes adjusted to the far lesser light of the torches. There was no expression of awe by the waiting crowd. Though they might be, by their trappings, dress and arms, accounted centuries behind the technical knowledge of the newcomers, they were braced by their history to know that they were not to face gods of unknown powers but mortals with whom they had successfully fought before. What gave them this barrier against the star rovers, Tamisan wondered, and why were they so adverse to any contact with star civilization? Apparently they were content to stagnate at a level of civilization perhaps five hundred years behind her world. Did they not produce any inquiring minds any who desired to do things differently? The ship was down and gave no outward sign of life, though Tamisan knew its scanners must be busy feeding back what information they gathered to appear on videoscreens. If those had picked up the derelict ship, the newcomers would have so much of a warning. She glanced from the silent bulk of the newly landed spacer to the OverQueen, j'ust in time to see the ruler raise her hand in a gesture. Four men came forward from the ranks of nobles and guards. Unlike the latter, they wore no body armor nor helms, only short tunics of an unrelieved black. And in the hands of each was a bow -- not the crossbow of the troops, but the yet older hand-bow of expert archers. That part of Tamisan which was of this world knew a catch of breath. For those bows were unlike any other in the land, and those who held them unlike any other archers. No wonder ordinary men and women gave them wide room. For they were a monstrous lot. Over the heads of each was fitted so skillfully fashioned a mask that it seemed no mask at all, rather their natural features, save that the features were not those of human men, but rather copies of the great heads which surmounted, one for each point of the compass, the defensive walls of Ty-Kry. Neither human nor animals, but something of both, and something beyond both. And the bows they raised were fashioned of treated human bone, strung with cords woven of human hair. The bones and hair of ancient enemies and ancient heroes, so that the intermingled strength of both were ready to serve the living now. T?rom closed quivers each took a single arrow, and in the torchlight those arrows glittered, seeming to draw and condense radiance until they were shafts of solid light. Fitted to the cords, they had a hypnotic effect, holding one's attention to the exclusion of all else. Tamisan was suddenly aware of that and tried to break the attraction, but at that moment the arrows were fired. And her head turned with all the rest in that company to watch the flight of what seemed to be lines of fire across the dark sky, rising up and up until they were well above the dark ship, then following a curve, to plunge out of sight behind it. Oddly enough, in their passing no they had left great arcs of light behind which did not fade at once, but cast faint gleams on the bubble of the ship. Ingathering -- one part of Tamisan's mind supplied -- a laying on of ancient power to influence those in the spacer. Though that of her which was a dreamer could not so readily believe in the effeciency of any such ceremony. There had been sound with the arrows' passing, a shrill high whistling which hurt the ears so that those in that throng put hands to the sides of their heads to shut out the screech. A wind arose out of nowhere and with it a loud crackling. Tamisan looked up to see above the Over-Queen's head a large bird flapping wings of gold and blue, until a closer look said it was no giant bird but rather a banner so fashioned that the wind set it flying to counterfeit the action. The black-dad archers still stood in a line a little out from the ranks of the guards. And now, though the Over-Queen made no visible sign, those about Hawarel and Tamisan urged them forward until they came to front both those archers and the Over-Queen's tall throne cart. "Well, champion, is it in your mind to carry out the duties this busy Mouth has assigned you?" There was jeering in the OverQueen's question, as if she did not honestly believe in Tamisan's IF a dupe to march to destruction in his own way. Hawarel went to one knee; but as he did so, he swung his empty sword sheath across his knee, making very visible the fact that he lacked a weapon. "At your desire, Great One, I stand ready. But is it your will that my battle be without even steel between me and the enemy?" 'T'amisan saw a smile on the lips of the Over-Queen. And at that moment, she glimpsed a little into this ruler -- that it might just please her to will such a fate on Hawarel. But if the Over-Queen played with that thought for an instant or two, she put it aside. Now she gestured. "Give him steel, and let him use it. The Mouth has said he is the answer to our defense this time. Is that not so, Mouth?" And the look she gave to Tamisan had a cruel core. "He has been chosen in the farseeing. And twice has it read so." Tamisan found the words to answer in a firm voice, as if what she said was an absolutely unchangeable decree. The Over-Queen laughed. "Be firm, Mouth, put your will behind this choice of yours. In fact, do you go with him, to give him the support of Olaval" Hawarel had accepted a sword from the officer on his left. Now he arose to his feet, swinging that blade as he saluted with a flourish which suggested that, if he knew he were going to extinction, he intended to march there as one who moved to trumpets and drums. "The Right be strength to your arm, a shield to your body," intoned the Over-Queen. But there was that in her voice which one might detect to mean that the words she spoke were only ritual, not intended to encourage this champion. Hawarel turned to face the silent ship. From the burnt and blasted ground about its landing fins arose trails of steam and smoke. Small, red, charring ran in lines away from that ruin. The faint arcs which had remained in the air from the arrow flights were gone now. As Hawarel moved forward, Tamisan followed a pace or two behind. Though if the ship remained closed to them, with no entrance hatch opened and no ramp run forth, she did not see how they could carry out their plans. And what if that were so, would the Over-Queen expect them to wait hour after hour for some decision from the spacer's commander as to whether or not he would contact them? Fortunately the spacecrew were more enterprising. Perhaps the sight of that hulk on the edge of the field had given them the need Hi to learn more. The hatch which opened was not the large entrance one, but a smaller door above one of the fins; and from it shot a stunner beam. Luckily it caught its prey, both Hawarel and Tamisan, before they had reached the edge of the sullenly burning turf, so that their suddenly hdpless bodies did not fall into that fire. Nor did they lose consciousness -- only the ability to control slack muscles. Tamisan had crumpled face down, and only the fact that one cheek pressed the earth gave her room to breathe. But her sight was sharply curtailed to the edge of burning grass which crept inexorably on toward her. Seeing that, she forgot all else. 'T'hose moments were the worst she had ever spent. She had conjured up narrow escapes in dreams, but always there had been the knowledge that at the last moment escape was possible. Now there was no escape, only her helpless body and the line of advancing fire. With the suddenness of a blow delivering a shock through her still painful bruises, she was caught, right side and left, by what felt like giant pinchers. As those closed about her body, she was drawn aloft, still face down, the fumes and heat of the burning vegetation choking her. She coughed until the spasm made her sick, spinning in that brutal clutch, being drawn to the spacer, as if the ship had shot forth a robot's arm to pull her in. She came into a burst of dazzling light. Then hands seized upon her, pulling her down, but holding her upright. The force of the stunner was wearing off; they must have set the beam on lowest power. There was the prickle of feeling returning in her legs and her heavy arms. She was able to lift her head a fraction, to see men in space uniforms about her. They wore helmets as if expecting to issue out on a hostile world, and some of them had the visors closed. Two picked her up easily and carried her along, down a corridor, before dropping her without any gentleness in a small cabin with a suspicious likeness to a cell. Tamisan lay on the floor, recovering command of her own body and trying to think ahead. Had they taken Hawarel, too? There was no reason to believe they had not. But he had not been put in this cell. She was able to sit up now, her back supported by the wall, and she smiled shakily at her thought that their brave boast of a championship battle had certainly been brought quickly to naught. Not that the Over-Queen's desires might have run far counter to what happened. But she and Starrex had gained this much of their own objective: they were in the ship she IF believed also held Kas. Only let the three of them make contact and they could leave the dream. And -- would their leaving shatter this dream world? How real was it? She was sure of nothing, and there was no reason to worry over side issues. The time had come to concentrate upon one thing only -- Kas. What should she do? Pound on the door of this cell to demand attention -- to speak with the commander of this ship? Ask then to see all his crew so she could pick out Kas in his this-world masquerade? She had a suspicion that while Hawarel-Starrex had accepted her story, no one else might. The important thing was some kind of action to get her free and let her search... The door was actually opening! Tamisan was startled by what seemed a quick answer to her need. X ere was no helmet on the man who stood there, though he wore a tunic bearing the insignia of an upperofficer, slightly different from that Tamisan knew from her own Ty-Kry. He also had a stunner aimed at her, while at his throat was the box of a vocal interpreter. "I come in peace -- " "With a weapon in hand?" she countered. He looked surprised; he must have expected a foreign tongue in answer. But she had replied in the Basic which was the second language of all Confederacy planets. "We have reason to believe that weapons are necessary with your people. I am Glanden Tork of Survey." "I am Tamisan and a Mouth of Olava." Her hand went to her head and discovered that somehow, in spite of her passage through the air and her lacking-in-ceremony entrance into the ship, her crown was still there. Then she pressed the important question: "Where is the champion?" "Your companion?" The stunner was no longer centered on her and his tone had lost some of its belligerency. "He is in safekeeping. But why do you name him champion?" "Because that is what he is -- come to engage your selected champion in Right battle." "I see. And we select a champion in return, is that it? What is Rightbattle?" She answered his last question first. "If you claim land, you meet the champion of the lordship of that land in Right-battle." "But we claim no land," he protested. "You made claim when you set your fiery ship down on the fields of Ty-Kry." "Your people then consider our landing a form of invasion? But this can be decided by a single combat between champions? And we pick our man -- " Tamisan interrupted him. "Not so. The Mouth of Olava selects -- or rather the sand selects -- the seeing selects. That is why I have come, though you did not greet me in honor." "You select the champion -- how?" "As I have said -- by the Seeing." "I do not see, but doubtless it will be made plain in the proper time. And where then is this combat fought?" "Out there." She waved to what she thought was the ship walls. "On the land being claimed." "Logical," he conceded. And then he spoke as if to the air around them. "All that recorded?" Since the air did not answer him, he was apparently satisfied by silence. "This is your custom, Lady -- Mouth of Olava. But since it is not ours, we must discuss it. By your leave we shall do so." "As you wish." She had this much on her side, he had introduced himself as a member of Survey, which meant that he had been trained in the necessity of understanding alien folkways. And the underlying principle of such training wherever possible was to follow planet customs. If the crew did accept this idea of championship, follow it completely. She could demand to see every member of the crew, thus find Kas. And once that was done -- break-dream! B ut, Tamisan told herself now, do not count on too easy an end to this venture. There was a nagging little doubt lurking in the back of her mind, and it had something to do with those death arrows, with the hulk of the derelict. The people of Ty-Kry, seemingly so weakly defended, had managed through centuries to keep their world free of spacers. When she tried to plumb the Tamisan-of-thisworld's memories as to how that was accon iplished, she had no answer but what corresponded to magic forces only partly understood. That the shooting of the arrows was the first step in bringing such forces into being she was aware. Beyond that seemed only to lie a belief akin to her Mouth power, and that she did not understand, even when she employed it. She was accepting all of this, Tamisan realized suddenly, as if this world did exist, that it was not a dream out of her control. Could Starrex's suggestion be the truth, that they had by some means traveled into an alternate world? Her patience was growing short; she wanted action. Waiting was very difficult. She was sure that scanners of more than one kind were IF trained on her and she must play the part of a Mouth of Olava, displaying no impatience, only calm confidence in herself and her mission. That she held to as best she could. Perhaps the time she waited seemed longer than it really was. But Tork returned, to usher her out of the cell and escort her up ladder from level to level. She found the long skirts of her robe difficult to manage. The cabin they came into was large and well furnished, and there were several men seated there. Tamisan looked from one to another searchingly. But she could not tell, she felt none of the uneasiness she had known in the throne room when Hawarel had been present. Of course, that could mean Kas was not one of this group, though a Survey ship did not carry a large crew -- mainly specialists of several different callings. There were probably ten, even twenty, more than the six before her. Tork led her to a chair which had some of the attributes of an easirest, molding it to her comfort as she settled into it. "This is Captain Lewald, Medico Thrum, Pyscho-Tech Sims, HistTechneer El Hamdi." Tork named names and each man acknowledged with a half bow. "I Have outlined your proposal to them and they have discussed the matter. By what means will you select a champion from among us?" Qhe had no sand. For the first  time, Tamisan realized that handicap. She would have to depend upon touch alone, but somehow she was sure that would reveal Kas to her. "Let your men come to me, touching hand to mine," she raised hers to lay it palm up on the table. "When I clasp that of him whom Olava selects, I shall know it." "It seems simple enough," the Captain returned. "Let us do as the lady suggests." And he leaned forward to rest his own for a minute on hers. There was no response, nor was there any in the others. The Captain called an order on the intercom, and one by one the other members of the crew came to her, touching palm to palm, while Tamisan, with mounting uneasiness, began to believe she had erred. Perhaps only by the sand could she detect Kas. Though she searched the face of each as he took his seat opposite her and laid his hand on hers, she could see no resemblance to Starre's cousin, nor was there any inner warning her man was here. "That was the last," the Captain said as the final man arose. "Which is our champion?" "He is not here." She blurted out the truth, her distress breaking through her caution. "But you have touched hands with every man on board this ship," the Captain answered her. "Or is this some trick -- " ns He was interrupted by a sound sharp enough to startle. And the chanted numbers which spilled from the com by his elbow' meant nothing to Tamison but brought the rest in that cabin into instant action. A stunner in Tork's hand caught her before she could rise, and once more she was conscious but unable to move. As the other officers pushed through the door on the run, Tork put out his hand, holding her limp body erect in the chair, while with the other he thumbed some alarm button set into the table. His summons was speedily answered by two crewmen who carried her along, to thrust her once more into a cabin. This was getting to be far too regular a procedure, Tamisan thought ruefully as they tossed her negligently on a bunk, hardly pausing to see if she landed safely on its surface or not. Whatever that alert had meant, it had certainly once more brought her to the status of prisoner. Apparently sure of the stunner beam, her guard went out, leaving the door open a crack so that she could hear the pad of running feet, the dangs of what could be secondary alarms. W hat possible attack had the forces of the Over-Queen laimched against a well-armed and already alert spacer? Yet it was plain that those men believed themselves in danger and were on the defensive. Starrex -- and Ras. Where was Kas? The Captain said she had met all on board. Did that mean that the vision she had earlier seen was false, that the faceless man in the spacer dress was a creature of her too active imagination? She must not lose confidence. Kas was here -- he had to be! She lay now trying vainly to guess by the sounds what was happening. But the first flurry of noise and movement were stilled; there was only silence. Hawarel -- where was Hawarel? The stunner's power was wearing off. She had pulled herself up somewhat groggily when the door of the cabin shot into its wall crack and Tork and the Captain stood there. "Mouth of Olava, or whatever you truly are," the Captain said, with a chill in his voice which reminded Tamisan of Hawarel's earlier rage, "the winning of time may not have been of your devising -- this nonsense of Champions and Right-battle -- or perhaps it was. Your superiors perhaps deceived you too. At any rate, now it does not matter. They have done their best to make us prisoner and will not reply to our signals for a parley. So we must use you for our messenger. Tell your ruler that we hold her champion and we can readily use him as a key to open gates shut in our faces. We have weapons beyong swords and spears, IF even beyond those which might not have saved those in that other ship. She can tie us here for a measure of time, but we can solve such bonds. We have not come as invaders, no matter what you believe, nor are we alone. If our signal does not reach our sister ship in orbit above, there will be such an accounting as your race has not seen, nor can conceive of. We shall release you now and you will tell your Queen this. If she does not send those to talk with us before the dawn -- then it will be the worse for her. Do you understand?" "And Hawarel?" Tamisan asked. I "Hawarel?" "The champion. You will keep him here?" "As I have said, we have the means to make him a key for your fortress doors. Tell her that, Mouth. From what we have read in your champion's mind you have certain authority here which ought to impress your Queen." Read from Starrex's mind? What did they mean? Tamisan was suddenly fearful. Some kind of mindprobe?, But if they did that, then they must know the rest. She was utterly confused now, and found it veiy hard to center her attention on the matter at hand, that she must relay this defiant message to the Over-Queen And, since there seemed to be nothing she could do to protest that action, she would do so. Though what reception she might have in Ty-Kry -- Tamisan shuddered as Tork pulled her frpjn the bunk and half carried, half led her along. XI F or the third time Tamisan satin prison, but this time she looked not at the smooth walls of a spaceship cabin, but had the ancient stones of the High Castle ringing her in. Captain Lewald's estimation of her influence with the OverQueen had fallen far wide of the truth, and her plea in favor of a parley with the spacemen had been overruled at once, while the threat concerning their strange weapons and their mysterious use of Hawarel as a "key" was laughed at. The fact that those of Ty-Kry had successfully dealt with this menace in the past made them confident that their same devices would serve as well now. And what those devices were Tamisan had no idea, save that something had happened to the ship before she had been unceremoniously bundled out of it. Hawarel they had kept on board, Kas had disappeared -- and until she had both to hand she was indeed a captive. Kas -- her thoughts kept turning back to the fact he had not been among those who had faced her. Yet Lewald had assured her that she had seen all his crew -- Wait I She set herself to recall his every word -- what had he said? "You have touched hand with every man aboard this ship." But he had not said all the crew. Had there been one outside the ship? All she knew of space travel she had learned from tapes. But those had been very detailed as they needed to be to supply the dreamers with factual background and inspiration from which to build fantasy worlds. This spacer claimed to be a Survey vessel and not operating alone. Therefore -- it might really have a companion in orbit, and there Kas could be. But, if that were so, die had no chance of reaching him. Now if this, were only a true dream -- Tamisan sighed, leaned her head back against the dank stone of the wall and then jerked away from that support as its chill struck into her shoulders. Dreams -- Suppose -- she sat upright, alert and a little excited -- suppose she could dream within a dream -- and find Kas that way? Was it possible? You could not tell until you proved it in one manner or another. She had no stablizer, no booster. But those were only needed when a dream was shared. She might venture as well on her own. But if she dreamed within a dream, could she do aught to set matters right? Why ask questions she could not answer until it was put to the proof? She stretched out on the stones of the cell floor, resolutely blocking off those portions of her mind which were aware of the present discomfort of her body. Instead, she began the deep, even breathing of a dreamer, fastening her thoughts on the pattern of self-hypnosis which was the door to her dream. But all she had as a goal was Kas and he as he was in his real person. So poor a guide! She was going under -- she could still dream!   these were of a translucent material through which flowed soft and pleasing colors. It could not be a space ship. Then the scene wavered, and swiftly Tamisan thrust aside that doubt which might puncture the dream fabric. The walls sharpened, fixed into a solid state: this was a corridor, facing her a door. She willed to see beyond and was straightway, after the manner of a proper dream, jn that chamber. Here the walls were hung with the same sparkling web stuff which had lined her chamber in the sky tower. Seeking Kas, she had returned to her own world. But she held the dream, curious as to why her aim had brought her here. Had die been wrong, and had Kas never come with her? Blit if that were so, why had she and Starrex been marooned in the other dream? There was no one in the chamber, IF but she felt that faint pull drawing her on. She sought Kas and there was that which promised he was here. A second room. Entering, she was startled. For this she knew and well -- it was the room of a dreamer. And Kas stood by an empty couch, while the other was occupied. The dreamer wore a sharing crown, but what rested on the other couch was not any second sleeper but a squat box of metal, to which her dream cords were attached. And Tamisan was not the dreamer! She had expected to see herself Instead the entranced was one of the locked minds, the blankness of her countenance was unmistakeable. Dream force was being created here by an indreamer, and seemingly it was harnessed to that box. Given such clues, Tamisan projected the rest. This was not the same dreaming chamber where she had fallen asleep; rather it was a smaller room. And Kas was very much awake, intent upon some dials on the box top. The indreamer and the box, locked so together, could be holding them in the other world. But what of that faint vision of Kas in Ship's uniform? To mislead her? Or was this a misleading dream, dictated by the suspicions she had detected in Starrex concerning his cousin? For this was the logical reasoning from such suspicions, that she had been sent with Starrex into a dream world and therein locked by this indreamer and machine -- real or dream? Was she now visible to Kas? If this were a dream, she should be. If she had come back to reality -- Her head reeled under the listing of things which might be true, untrue, half true. To prove at least one small fraction, she moved forward and laid her hand on that of Kas as he leaned over to make some small adjustment to the box. He gave a startled exclamation, jerked his hand from under hers and glanced around. But, though he stared straight at her, it was plain he saw nothing; she could be as disembodied as a spirit in one of the old tales. Yet if he had not seen her, he had felt something. A gain he leaned over the box, eyeing it intently as if he thought he must have felt some shock or emanation from it. The dreamer never moved. Save for the slow rise and fall of her breathing, which told Tamisan she was indeed deep in her self-induced and created world, she might have been dead. Her face was very wan and colorless. Seeing that, Tamison was uneasy. This tool of Kas's had been far too long in an uninterrupted dream. She would have to be awakened if she made no move to break it for herself. One of the dangers of indreaming was this possible loss of the power to break a dream. That occuring, the guardian must break it. Most of the dreamers' caps proIF vided the necessary stimulus to do so. Only the cap of this dreamer's head had certain modifications Tamisan had never seen before, and these might prevent breaking -- What would happen if Tamisan could evoke waking? Would that also release her -- and Starrex -- wherever he might be now -- from their dream, return them to the proper world? She was well drilled in the technique of deep dream break. But those she had used when she stood in reality beside a victim who had overstayed the proper dream time. She reached out a hand, touched the pulse on the sleeper's throat and applied slight massage. But though her hands seemed corporal and solid to her, there was no response in the other. To prove a point, Tamisan aimed a finger, thrusting it deeply as she could into the pillow on which the dreamer's head rested. Her finger did not dent that soft roundness, but rather went into it, as if her flesh and bone had no substance. There was yet another way. It was harsh and used only in cases of exterminty. But to Tamisan this could be no else. She put those unsubstantial fingers on the temples of the sleeper, just below the rim of the dream cap, and concentrated on a single command. Awake The sleeper stirred, her features convulsed and a low moan came from her. Kas uttered an exclamation, hung over his box, his fingers busy pushing buttons with a care which suggested he was about a very delicate task. "Awake!" Tamisan commanded with such force as she could summon. The sleeper's hands arose very slowly, unsteadily from her sides and wavered up toward the cap, though her eyelids did not raise. Her expression was now one of pain. And Kas, breathing hard and fast, kept to his adjustments on the box. So they fought their silent battle for possession of the dreamer. And slowly Tamisan was forced to concede that whatever force lay in that box, it overrode all the technique she knew. But, the longer Kas kept this poor wretch under, the weaker she would grow. Death would be the answer, though perhaps that did not trouble him. Tf she could not wake the dream er, break the bonds which she was certain now were what tied her and Starrex to that other world, then she must somehow get at Kas himself. He had responded to her touch before -- therefore he might just -- Tamisan slipped away from the head of the couch and came to stand behind Kas. He straightened up, a faint relief mirrored on his face as he studied the dreamer, and apparently his box reported that there was no longer any disturbance. Now Tamisan raised her hands to either side of his head, spreading wide her fingers so they might in someway ape the expanse of a dreamer's cap, and then brought them swiftly down to cover his head, putting firm touch on his temples though she could not exert real pressure there. T Te gave a muffled cry and tossed his head from side to side as if to free himself from a cloud. But Tamisan, with all the determination of which she was capable, held fast. She had already seen this done once in the Hive. However then it had been used on a docile and willing subject and both the controlled and the dreamer had been on the same plane of existence. Now she could only hope that she could disrupt Kas's train of thought long enough to make him release the dreamer himself. So she brought to bear all her will to that purpose. He was not only shaking his head from side to side now, making it very hard to keep her fingers in the proper position, but he was swaying back and forth, his hands up, clawing as if to tear her hold away, though it appeared he could not touch her any more than she could lay firm grip on him. That fund of energy which had enabled her to create strange worlds and hold them for a fellow dreamer was bent to the task of influencing Kas. But to her dismay, though he ceased his frenzied movements and his clawing for the hands he could not clutch growing feebler, and though his eyes closed and his face screwed into such an expression of horror and rejection that it was that of a frightened child, he did not move to the box. Instead, he slumped forward so suddenly that Tamisan was taken wholly unaware, falling half across the divan. And in that fall he flailed out with an arm to send the box smashing to the floor, its weight dragging the cap in turn from the dreamer. Ohe drew several deep breaths, her  haggard face now displaying a small trace of returning color. Tamisan, still startled at the results of her efforts to influence Kas, began to wonder if she might have made matters worse. She did not know how much the box had to do with their transportation to the alternate world and whether, if it was broken, they would ever be able to return or not. There was one precaution, if she could take it. If she returned to that prison cell in the High Castle -- as she must do or leave Starrex-Hawarel lost forever -- then to leave Kas here, perhaps able again to use his machine -- no! But how -- since she could not -- IF 'T'amisan looked to the stirring dreamer. The girl was struggling from the depths of so deep a strata of unconsciousness that she was not aware of what lay about her. In this state she might be pliable. Tamisan could only try. Leaving Kas, she went back to the dreamer. Once more, touching the girl's forehead, she sought to influence. The dreamer sat up with such slow movements of body and limbs as one might use if almost unbearable weights were fastened to every muscle. In a painfully slow gesture, she raised her hands to her head, groping for the cap no longer there. Then she sat, her eyes still shut, while Tamisan drew heavily on her own strength to deliver a final set of orders. Blindly, for she never opened her eyes, the dreamer felt along the edge of the couch on which she had lain, until her hand swept against the cords which fastened the cap to the box. Her lax fingers fumbled and then tightened as she gave a feeble jerk, then another, until both cords pulled free. Holding those still in one hand, she slipped from the couch in a forward movement which brought her to her knees, the upper part of her body on the other couch, one cheek touching that of the unconscious Kas. The strain on Tamisan was very great. She was wavering in her control now; several times those weak hands fell limply as her hold on the dreamer ebbed. But each time she found some small surge of energy which brought them back into action again. So that at last the cap was on Kas, the cords which had connected it to the box in a half coil on which the dreamer's head rested. So big a chance and with such poor equipment! Tamisan could not be sure of any results, she could only hope. Tamisan had released her command of the dreamer, who now lay against the couch on one side as Kas half lay on the other. She summoned all that she had, all that she sensed she had always possessed, that small difference in dream power she had secretly cherished. Once .more she touched the forehead of the sleeping girl and broke her own dream within a dreaml This was like climbing a steep hill with an intolerably heavy burden lashed to one's aching back -- like being forced to pull the dead weight of another body through a swamp which sucked one ever down. It was such an effort as she could not endure -- Then that weight was gone, and the relief of its vanishing was such that Tamisan did not for a space more than just savor the fact that it did not drag at her. She opened her eyes at last and even that small movement required an effort which left her spent. She was not in the sky tower. These walls were stone. And the light was dusky, coming wanly from a slit high in the opposite wall. The High Castle from which she had dreamed her way back to her own Ty-Kry, the dream within a dream. But how well had she wrought there? Tj'or the present, she was too tired to even think connectedly. Bits and pieces of all she had seen and done since she had awakened first in this Ty-Kry floated through her mind, not making any concrete pattern. It was the mind picture of Hawarel's face as she had seen it last while they marched toward the spacer which roused her from that uncaring drift -- Hawarel and the threat the Captain had made and which the Over-Queen had pushed aside. If Tamisan had truly broken the lock Kas had set up to keep them here, then it would be escape -- but now there was in her no strength. She tried to remember the formula for breaking, and knew a memory proved faulty. She could not do it now -- she must have more time to rest both mind and body. Now she was hungry, thirsty, with such a need for both food and drink that it was a torment. Did they mean to leave her here without any sustenance? Tamisan lay still, listening. And then she inched her head around slowly to view the deeper dusk of her surroundings at floor level. She was not alone! Kas! Had she been successful and pulled Kas with her? And if so -- was it that he had no counterpart in this world as she and Starrex had found, so that he was still his old self? However, she did not have time to explore that possibility, for there was a loud grating, followed by a line of light marking an opening door. In the beam of a torch stood that same officer who had earlier been her escort. Using her hands to brace up her body, Tamisan raised herself. But at the same time there was a cry from the far corner. Someone moved there, raising a head and showing features she had last seen in the sky tower. Kas -- and in his rightful body! He was scrambling to his feet. The officer and the guardsman behind him in the doorway, stared at the otherworlder as if they could not believe their eyes. Kas shook his head to clear away some mist and then -- His lips pulled back from his teeth in a terrible rictus which was no smile. There was a small laser in his hand. She could not move; he was going to bum her! In that IE moment she was so sure of it that she did not even know fear, only waited for the crisping of her flesh. T)ut the aim of that weapon raised beyond her and fastened on the doorway. Under it, both officer and guard went down. With one hand on the wall to steady himself, Kas pulled along until he came to her. He stood away from the stone then, transferred his laser to the other hand and reached down to hook fingers in the robe where it covered her shoulder. "On -- your -- feet." He mouthed the words with difficulty, as if his exhaustion nearly equalled hers. "I do not know how -- or why -- or who -- " The torch dropped from the charred hand which had carried it to give them much curtailed light. But Kas swung her around, thrusting his face very close to hers. He stared at her intently, as if by the very force of his glare he could strip aside the mask this other world body made for her, force the old Tamisan into sight. "You are Tamisan -- it can not be otherwise! I do not know how you did this, demon-bom." He shook her with a viciousness which struck her painfully against the wall. "Where -- is -- he?" All that came from her parched throat were harsh sounds without meaning. "Never mind." Kas stood straighter now and there was more vigor in his voice. "Where he is -- there shall I find him. Nor shall I lose you, demon-born, since you are my way back. And for Lord Starrex here there will be no guards, no safe shields. Perhaps this is the better way after all!" He slapped her face, his palm bruising her flesh, once more thumping her head back against the wall so that the rim of the Mouth crown bit into her scalp and she cried out in pain. "Speak! Where is this place. Answer me." "The High Castle of Ty-Kry," she croaked out. "And what do you in this hole?" "I am prisoner to the OverQueen." "Prisoner? What do you mean? You are a dreamer, this is your dream. Why are you a prisoner?" Tamisan was so shaken she could not marshal words easily as she had done to explain to Starrex. And she thought, a little dazedly, that Kas might not accept her explanation anyway. "Not -- wholly -- a dream," she got out. He did not seem surprised. "So the control has that property, has it -- to impose a sense of reality. Then -- " His eyes blazed into hers. "You can not control this dream, is that it? Again fortune favors me, it seems. Where is Starrex now?" She could give him a truthful answer and she was glad of that. As it seemed to her now, she could not speak falsely with any hope of belief. It was as if he could see straight into her mind with those demanding eyes of his. "I do not know." "But he is in this dream -- somewhere?" "Yes." "Then you shall find him for me, Tamisan. And speedily. Do we have to search this High Castle?" "He was, when I saw him last, outside." S he kept her eyes turned from the door, from what lay there. But now he hauled her toward that and she was afraid she was going to be sick. Where they might be in the interior of the small city which was the High Castle, she did not know. Except that those who had brought her here had not taken her on to the core towers, but had turned aside along the first of the gateways and gone down a long flight of stairs. She doubted if they would be able to walk out again as easily as Kas thought to do. "Come." He pulled at her, dragging her on, kicking aside what lay in the door. She closed her eyes tightly as he brought her past. But the stench of death was so strong that she staggered, retching, with his hand ever dragging at her, keeping on her feet and reeling ahead. Twice she watched glassily as he burned down opposition. And his luck at keeping surprise on his side held. They came to the foot of the stairs and climbed. Tamisan held to one hope -- now that she was on her feet and moving she found a measure of strength returning, so that she no longer feared falling, if Kas released his hold upon her. When they were out at last in the night, with the damp smell of the underways wafted away by a rising wind, she felt clean and renewed and was able to think. Kas might have been able to get her this far because of her weakness. So to his eyes she must continue to counterfeit that, until she had a chance to act. It could be that his weapon, so alien to this world and thus so effective, might well cut their way to Starrex. But that did not mean that once they had reached him she need obey Kas. And somehow she also felt that face to face Kas would be less confident of success. It was not a guard that halted them now but a massive gate, such a barrier as was meant to hold. Kas examined the bar and laughed, before he raised the laser and sent a needle-thin beam to cut as he needed. There was a shout from above and Kas, almost lanquidly, swung the beam to a narrow stair leading from the ramparts, laughing again as there came a choked scream land the sound of a falling body. IF "Now!" Kas put his shoulder to the gate and it swung, more easily than Tamisan would have thought possible for its weight. "Where is Starrex? And if you lie -- " His smile was a very evil one. '"There." Tamisan was sure of her direction and she pointed to where there was a distant blaze of torches about the shadow bulk of the grounded spacer. xin U A spacer I" Kas paused. "Besieged by these people," Tamisan informed him. "And Starrex is a hostage on board, if he still lives. They have threatened to use him in some manner as a weapon and the Over-Queen, as far as I know, does not care." Kas turned on her. His evil merriment had vanished, his smile was rather now a snarl, and he shook her back and forth. "It is your dream -- control it!" For a moment, Tamisan hesitated. Should she try to tell him what she believed the truth? Kas and his other world weapon might be her only hope of reaching Starrex now. Could he be persuaded to a frontal attack if he thought that was their only chance of reaching their goal? On the other hand, if she admitted she could not break this dream, he might well bum her down out of hand and take his chances. "Your meddling has warped the pattern, Lord Kas. I can not control some elements. Nor can I break the dream until I have Lord Starrex with me -- since. we are patternlinked in this sequence." Her steady reply seemed to have some effect on him. Though he gave her one more punishing shake and uttered an obscenity, he looked on to the torches and the half-seen bulk of the ship, a certain calculation in his eyes. They made a length ly detour, away from most of the torches, coming up across the open land to the south of the ship. There was a graying in the sky and a hint that dawn might perhaps be not too far away. Now that they could see better, it was apparent that the ship was sealed. No hatch opened on its surface, no ramp ran out. And surely the laser in Kas's hand was not going to bum their way in, in the manner he had opened the gate of the High Castle. Apparently the same difficulty presented itself to Kas, for he halted her with a jerk while they were still in the shadows well away from the line of torches forming a square around the ship. They sheltered in a small dip in the ground surveying the scene. The torches were no longer held by men, but had been planted in the ground at regular intervals, and they were as large as outsize candles. The colorful mass which had marked the Over-Queen and her courtiers on Tamisan's first visit to the landing field was gone, leaving only a perimeter line of guardsmen in wide encirclement of the sealed ship. Why did the spacemen just not lift and planet elsewhere? Unless that confusion in the last moments when she had been on board the spacer meant that they could not do so. They had spoken then of a sister ship in orbit above. It would seem that it had made no move to aid them, though she had no idea how much time had elapsed since last she had been here. Tow Kas turned on her again.  "Can you get to Starrex -- reach him a message?" he demanded. "I can try. For what reason?" "Have him ask for us to come to him." Kas had been silent for a moment before replying. Was he so stupid as to believe that she would not give a warning with whatever message she could so deliver? Or had he precautions against that? But could she reach Starrex? She had gone into the secondary dream to make contact with Kas. There was no time nor preparation for such a move now. She could only use the mental technique for inducing a dream and see what happened thereby. She said as much to Kas now, promising no success. "Be about what you can do -- nowl" he told her roughly. Tamison closed her eyes to think of Hawarel as she had seen him last, standing beside her on this very field. And she heard a gasp from Kas. Opening her eyes she saw Hawarel, even as he had been then -- or rather a palid copy of him, wavering and instinct, already beginning to fade, so she spoke in a swift gabble: "Say we come from the Queen with a message, that we must see the Captain -- " The shimmering outline of Hawarel faded into the night. She heard Kas mutter angrily "What good will that ghost do?" "I can not tell. If he returns to that of which he is a part, he can carry the message. For the rest -- " Tamisan shrugged. "I have told you this is no dream I can control. Do you think if it were, we two would stand here in this fashion?" His thin lip parted in one of his mirthless grins. "You would not, I know, dreamer #" His head went from left to right as he slowly surveyed the line of planted torches and the men standing on guard between them. "Do we move closer to this ship, expect them to open to us?" "They used a stunner to take us before," Tamisan saw fit to warn him. "They might do so again." "Stunner," he gestured with the IF laser. Tamisan hoped his answer would not be a headlong attack on the ship with that. But instead, he used it as a pointer to motion her on toward the touch line. "If they do open up," he commented, "I shall be warned" by rough handling, frayed in strips at the hem where she could be tripped if she caught those rags between her feet. And the rough brush growing knee-high about them caught at it so that she stumbled now and again, urged on continually by Kas's pulling when he dug his fingers painfully into her already bruised shoulder. So they reached the torch line. The guards there faced inward to the ship and in this increase of light Tamisan could see that they were all bowmen, arqied with crossbows, not with those of bone which the black-tunicked men had earlier used. Bolts against the might of the ship I The answer seemed laughable, a jest to delight the simple. Yet, the ship lay there and Tamisan could well remember the consternation of those men who had been questioning her within it. Now -- There was a dark spot on the hull of the ship and a hatch suddenly swung open! A battle hatch -- though she had only seen those via tape study. "Kas -- they are going to fire!" With a laser beam from such, they could crisp everything on this field, perhaps dear back to the walls of the High Castle! She tried to turn in his grasp, to race back and away, knowing already that such a race was lost before she took the first lunging stride. But he held her fast. "No muzzle," he said. Tamisan strained to see through the poor, flickering light. Perhaps it was a lightening of the sky which did make dear that there was no muzzle projecting to spew a fiery death across them all. But that was surely a gun port. As quickly as it had appeared, that opening was dosed. The ship was again sealed tightly. "What -- ?" "Either they can not use it," Kas answered her half question, "or they have thought better of doing so. Which means, by either count, we have a chance. Now -- stay you here! Or else I shall come looking for you in a manner you shall not relish, and never believe that I can not find you!" Nor did something in Tamisan dispute that. She stood. After all, apart from Kas's threats, where did she have to go? If she were sighted by any of the guards, she might either be returned to prison or dealt with summarily in another fashion. And she had to reach Starrex if she were to escape. But she watched Kas make good use of the interest which riveted the eyes of the guards on the ship. He crept, with more ease than she thought possible for one used to the luxury living of the sky towers, behind the nearest man. TX#hat weapon he used she could   not see; it was not the laser. Instead he straightened to his full height behind the unsuspecting guard, reached out an arm and seemed only to touch the stranger on the neck. Immediately the fellow collapsed without a sound, though Kas caught him before he had fallen to the ground and dragged him backward to the slight depression in the field where Tamisan waited. "Quick!" Kas ordered. "Give me his cloak and helm!" He ripped off his own tunic with its extravagantly padded shoulders, while Tamisan knelt to fumble with a great brooch, freeing the enveloping cloak of the guard. Kas snatched it out of her hands, dragged the rest of it loose from under the limp body and pulled it around him, taking up the helm and settling it on his head with a tap. Then he took up the crossbow. "Walk before me," he told Tamisan. "If they have a field scanner on in the ship, I want them to see a prisoner under guard. That may bring them to a parlay. It is a thin chance, but our best -- #j He could not guess that it might be a better chance than he hoped, Tamisan knew, since he did not know that she had been once within the ship and the crew might be expecting some such return with a message from the Over-Queen. But to walk out boldly, past the line of torches -- surely Kas's luck would not hold so well; they would be seen by the other guards before they were a quarter of the way to the ship. But she had not any other proposal to offer in exchange. This was no adventure such as she had lived through in dreams. She believed that if she died now, she died indeed and would not wake unharmed in her own world. And her flesh crawled with a fear which made her mouth go dry and her hands quiver as they held wet and tight upon the folds of her robe. Any second now -- she would feel the impact of a bolt -- hear a shout of discovery -- be -- But still Tamisan tottered forward and heard, with danger-alerted ears, the faint crunch of boots which was Kas behind. His contempt for a danger which was only too real for her made her wonder, fleetingly, if he did indeed still believe this a dream she could control, and need not then watch for any one but her. But she could not summon words to impress on him his woeful mistake. So intent was she upon some attack from behind that she was IF not really conscious of the ship towards which they went. Until, suddenly she saw another of those ports open and steeled herself to feel the numbing charge of a stunner. However, again an attack she feared did not come. The sky was growing lighter even if there was no sign of sunrise. Instead the first drops of a storm began to fall. And under that onslaught of moisture from lowering clouds, the torches hissed and sputtered, finally flickering out, so that the gloom was hardly better than twilight. 'nphey came close enough to the ship to board, were one of the ramps lowered to them. There they stood waiting, while Tamisan felt the rise of almost hysterical laughter inside her. What an anticlimax if the ship refused to acknowledge them! They could not stand here forever and there was no chance they could battle a way inside. Kas's faith in her communication with that ghost of Hawarel had been too high. But even as she was sure that they made an absurd failure, there was a sigh of sound from well above them. The port hatch wheeled back into the envelope of the ship's wall, and a small ramp, hardly more than a steep ladder, swung creaking out and dropped to hit the charred ground not far from them. "Go!" Kas prodded her forward. With a shrug, Tamisan went. She found it hard to climb with the heavy, frayed skirts dragging her back. But by using her hands to pull along the single rail of the ramp, she made progress. Why had not the rest of the guards along that watching line of torches moved? Had it been that Kas's half disguise had indeed deceived them, and they thought that Tamisan had been sent under orders to parlay a second time with the ship's people? She was nearly at the hatch now and could see the suited men in the shadows above waiting. They had tanglers ready to fire, prepared to spin the webs to enmesh them both as easily handled prisoners. But before those slimy strands spun forth to touch -- patterned as they were to seek flesh to anchor -- both the waiting space men jerked right and left, clutched with already dead hands at the breasts of charred tunics from which arose small, deadly spirals of smoke. They had expected a guard armed with a bow; they had met Kas's laser, to the same undoing as the guardsmen at the castle. Kas's shoulder in the middle of her back sent her sprawling, to land half over the bodies of the two who had awaited them. She heard a scuffle and was kicked and rolled aside, fighting the folds of her own long skirt, trying to get out of the confines of the hatch pocket. Somehow, on her hands and knees, she made it forward, since she could not retreat. Now she fetched up against the wall of a corridor and managed to pull around to face the end of the fight The two guards lay dead. But Kas held the laser on a third man. Now, without glancing around, he gave an order which she mechanically obeyed. "The tangler -- here!" Otill on her hands and knees,  Tamisan crawled far enough back into the hatch compartment to grip one of those weapons. The second -- she eyed it with awakening need for some protection herself, but Kas did not give her time to reach it. "Give it to me -- now!" Still holding the laser pointed steadily at the middle of the third spaceman, he groped back with his other hands. She had no choice -- no choice -- but she did! If Kas thought he had her thoroughly cowed -- Swinging the tangler around without taking time to aim, Tamisan pressed the firing button. The lash of the sticky weaving spun through the air, striking the wall from which it dropped away, then one arm of the motionless captive, who was still under Kas's threat; there it clung, across his middle. And then it spun through the air until it clasped Kas's gun hand, his middle, his other arm, adhering instantly, tightening with its usual efficiency and tying captor to captive. Kas struggled against those evertightening bands to bring the laser around to beam on Tamisan, though whether he would have used it even in his white hot rage, she did not know. It was enough that the tangler made it so she could keep from his line of fire. Having ensnared them enough to render them both harmless for a time, Tamisan drew a deep breath and relaxed somewhat. She had to be sure of Kas. She had loosed the firing button of the tangler as soon as she saw that he could not use his arms. Now she raised the weapon, and with more of a plan, tied his legs firmly to r gether. He kept on his feet, but he was as helpless as if they had managed to turn a stunner beam on him. Warily, she approached him. And guessing her intent, he went into wild wrigglings, trying to bring the adhesive tangler strands in contact with her flesh also. But she stooped and tore at the already fringed and frayed hem of her robe, ripping up a li strip as high as her waist, winding this about her arm and wrist to make sure she could not be so entrapped. IF In spite of his struggles, she managed to get the laser out of his hold, and for the second time knew a surge of great relief. He made no sound, but his eyes were wild and his lips so tightly drawn against his teeth, his mouth slightly open, that a small trickle of spittle oozed from one corner to wet his chin. Looking at him dispassionately, Tamisaa thought him near insane at that moment. The spacecrewman was moving. He hitched along as she swung around with the laser as a warning, his shoulders against the wall keeping him firmly on his feet, his unbound legs giving him more mobility, though the cord of the tangler anchored him to Kas. Tamisan glanced around, searching for what he appeared so desperate to reach. There was a com box. "Stand where you are I For now -- " she ordered. The threat of the laser kept him frozen. With that still trained on him, she darted short glances over her shoulder to the hatch opening. Sliding along the wall in turn, the tangler thrust loosely into the front of her belt, she managed with one arm to slam the hatch door and give a turn to its locking wheel. N ow -- Using the laser as a pointer she motioned the crewman to the com, but the immobile Kas was too much of an anchor. Dared she free the crewman by even so much? There was no other way. She motioned with one hand. "Stand well away." He had said nothing during their encounter, but he obeyed with an agility which suggested he liked the sight of that weapon in her hand even less than he had liked it when Kas had held it. He stretched to the limit the cord would allow so she was able to burn it through. Kas spit out a series of obscenities which were only a meaningless noise as far as Tamisan was concerned. Until he was released, he was no more now than a well anchored bundle -- helpless. But the crewman had importance. She gestured him on to the com, reaching it before him. Now she played the best piece she had in this desperate game. "Where is Hawarel? The native who was brought on board?" He could lie, of course, and she would not know it. But it seemed because he thought that the truth would strike her worse than any lie. "They have him in the lab -- conditioning him." And he grinned at her with some of the evil malignancy she had seen in Kas. She remembered the Captain's earlier threat to make of Hawarel a tool to use against the OverQueen and her forces. Was she too IF late? But there was only one road to take and that was the one she had chosen in those few moments when she had taken up the tangler and used it for herself. "You will call." She spoke as she might to one finding it difficult to understand her. "And you will say that Hawarel will be released, brought here -- now!" "Why?" the crewman returned with visible insolence. "What will you do? Kill me? Perhaps, but that will not defeat the Captain's half the crew burned -- " "That may be true." She nodded. Not knowing the Captain, she could not tell whether or not that was a bluff. "But will his sacrifice then save his ship?" "What can you do?" began the crewman and then he paused. His grin was gone; now he looked at her speculatively In her present guise she perhaps did not look formidable enough to threaten the ship, but he could not be sure. And one thing she knew from her own time and place -- a spaceman learned early to take nothing for granted on a new planet. It might well be that she did have command over some unknown force. "What can I do? There is much." She took quick advantage of that hesitation "Have you been able to raise the ship?" She plunged on, hoping very desperately that she had made the right guess. "Have you been able to communicate wiffi your other ship, or ships, in orbit?" His expression was her answer, one which fanned her hope into a bright blaze of excitement. The ship was grounded, had some sort of a hold on it which they had not been able tobreak! "The Captain won't listen." He was sullen now. "I think he will. Tell him that we got Hawarel -- here -- and himself -- or else we shall truly show you what happened to that derelict across the field." R as had fallen silent. He was watching her, not with quite the same wariness of the crewman, but with an emotion she was not able to read. Surprise? Or did it mask some sly thought of taking over her bluff, captive though he was? "Talk!" The need for hurry rode Tamisan now. By this time those above would wonder why their captives had not been brought before them. Also, outside, the OverQueen's men would certainly have reported that Tamisan and a seeming guard had entered the ship. From both sides enemies might be closing in. "I can not set the com," her prisoner answered. "Tell me then!" "The red button -- " But she thought she had seen a slight shift in his eyes. Tamisan raised her hand, to press the green button instead. Without accusing him of the treachery she was sure he had tried, she said again, more fiercely: TaIk!" "Sannard here." He put his lip dose to the com. "They -- they hare me. Rooso and Cambre are dead. They want the native." "In good condition," hissed Tamisan, "and now!" "They want him now, in good condition," Sannard repeated. ".They threaten the ship" There came no acknowledgement from the com in return. Had she indeed pressed the wrong button because she was overly suspicious? What was going to happen? Time -- sfee could not wait on time! "Sannard -- " the voice from the com was metalic, without human inflection or tone. But Tamisan gave the crewman a gush which sent him sliding back along the wall until he bumped into Kas and the binds of both men immediately united to make them one struggling package. Tamisan spoke into the com... "Captain, I do not play any game. Send me your prisoner or look upon that derelict you see and sajr to yourself that will be your shq. For this is so, as true as I stand here now, with your man as my captive. Also -- send Hawarel alone, and pray to whatever immortal powers you believe sit in judgment over your actions that he can so come! Time grows very short and there is that which will act if you do not, and to a purpose you shall not relish!" The crewman, whose legs were still free, was trying to kick away from Kas. But his struggles instead sent them both to the floor in a heaving tangle. Tamisan's hand dropped to her side as she leaned against the wall, breathing heavily. With all her will she wanted to control action as she did in a dream, but only fate did that now. 'T'hough she sagged against the wall, Tamisan felt rigid, as if she were in a great encasement of su-steel. And, as time moved at so slow a pace as not to be measured normally, that prisoning hold on her body and spirit grew. The crewman and Kas had ceased their struggles. She could not see the crewman's face, but that which Kas turned to her had a queer, distorted look. As if before her eyes, though not through any skill of hers, he was indeed changing, taking on the aspect of another man. Since her return to the sky tower in the second dream she had known he was to be feared. Now, in spite of the fact that his body was securely imprisoned, she found herself edging away, as if by the very IF intentness of that hostile stare he could aim a weapon to bring her down. But he said nothing, lay as broodingly quiet and impassive as though he had foreknowledge of utter failure for her. She knew so little, Tamisaon thought, she who had always taken pride in her learning, in the wealth of lore she had drawn into furnishing her memory for action dreaming. The spacecrew might have some way of flooding this short corridor with a noxious gas, or using a hidden ray linked with a scanner to finish them. Tamisan found herself running her hands along the walls, studying the unbroken surface a little wildly, striving to find where death might enter quietly and unseen. There was another bulkhead door at the end of this short corridor; at a few paces away from the outer hatch a ladder ascended to a closed trap. Her head turned constantly, until she regained a firmer control of herself, from one of those entrances to the other. They had only to wait to call her bluff -- only to wait. Yes! They had waited and they were -- The air about her was changing, there was a growing scent in it. Not unpleasant -- but even a fine perfume would have seemed a stench from the dungheap when it reached her nostrils under these present conditions! Also the light which radiated from the jointure of the corridor roof and ceiling was altering. It had been that of a moderately sunlit day, now it was bluish. So under it her own brown skin took on an eerie look. She had lost her throw! Maybe, if she could open the hatch again, let in the outer air -- Tamisan tottered to the hatch, gripped the locking wheel and brought her strength to bear. Kas was writhing again, trying to break But oddly enough the crewman lay limp, his head rolling when Kas's heaving disturbed the lay of his body, but his eyes were closed. And, at the same time Tamisan braced against the wall, her full strength turned on the need for opening the door, she knew a flash of surprise. Was it her over-vivid imagination alone which made her believe that she was in danger? When she rested to draw a deep breath -- XX#hy -- in her startlement she   could have cried out aloud. She did utter a small sound. She was gaining strength, not losing it. Every lungful of that scented air she breathed in -- and she was breathing deeper, more slowly as if her body desired such nourishment -- was a restorative. Kas, too? She turned to glance at him again. Where she breathed deeply, with lessening apprehension, he was gasping, his face ghastIy in the change of light. And then, even as she watched, his struggles ended, his head fell back so that he lay as inert as the crewman he sprawled across. So whatever change was in progress here, it affected Kas and the crewman -- that latter faster than the former -- but not her. And now her trained imagination took another leap. Perhaps she had not been so far wrong in threatening those on this ship with danger. Though she had no guess as to how it was done, this could be another strange weapon in the armament of the Over-Queen. Hawarel? The spacemen had probably never intended to send him. Dared she go to seek him? Tamisan wavered, one hand on the hatch wheel, looking to the ladder and the other door. If all within this ship save she had reacted to the strange air, there would be none to stop her. But if she fled the ship, she would face the loss of the keys to her own world -- Starrex and Kas. In addition, she might be met by some evil fate at the hands of the Over-Queen. She had broken prison, and -- if they did not know of Kas -- had left dead men behind her. As the Mouth of Olava, she shuddered from the judgment which would be rendered one deemed to have practiced wrongful supernatural acts. Resolutely, Tamisan went to the door at the end of the corridor. It was really true that she had no choice at all. She must find Starrex, somehow bring him here, so that they three could be together and win a small space of time in which to arrange a dream breaking -- or she was totally defeated. She loosened her belt a little so she could draw up her robe through it, shortening the hampering length, leaving her legs freer. There was the tangler and Kas's laser. In addition was this mounting feeling of strength and well being, though an inner warning suggested she not trust to over-confidence. The door gave under her push and she looked out upon a scene which first startled and then reassured her. There were crewmen in the corridor. But they lay prone as if they had been caught while on their way to the hatch. Lasers -- of a slightly different pattern than that Kas had brought -- had fallen from their hands, and three of the four wore tanglers. Hpamisan picked her way care fully around them, gathering up all those weapons in a fold of her robe, as if she were some maiden in a field gathering an armload of spring flowers. The men were alive, she saw as she stooped closer, but they breathed evenly as if peacefully asleep. She took one of the tanglers, discarding the one she had used, fearing its charge might be near exIF haustion. As for the rest of the collection, she dropped them at the far end of the passageway and turned the beam of Kas's weapon on them; she left behind a metal mass of no use to anyone. Her idea of the geography of the ship was scanty. She would simply have to explore and keep exploring until she found Starrex. But she would start at the top and work down. So she found a level ladder, three times coming upon a sleeping crewman. Each time she made sure he was disarmed before she left him. The blue shade of the light was growing deeper, giving a very weird cast to the faces of the sleepers. Making sure her robe was tightly kilted up, Tamisan began to climb. She had reached the third level when she heard the sound, the first she had noted in this too-silent ship since she had left the hatchway. She stopped to listen, deciding it came from somewhere in the level into which she had just climbed. With laser in hand, she tried to use it as a guide, though it was misleading -- and might have come from any one of the cabins. Each door she passed Tamisan pushed open. There were more sleepers -- some stretched in bunks, others on the floors or seated at tables with their heads lying on those surfaces. But she did not halt now to collect weapons. The need to be about her task, free of this ship, built in her as sharp as might a slaver's lash laid across her shrinking shoulders. Suddenly the sound grew louder as she came to a last door and pushed it. Now she looked into a cabin not meant for living but perhaps for a kind of death. Two men in plain tunics were crumpled by the threshold. As if they had had some limited warning of danger to come and had tried to flee, but fallen before they could reach the corridor. Behind them was a table and on that a body, very much alive, struggling with dogged determination against confining straps. Though his long hair had been clipped and the stubble of it shaven to expose the full nakedness of his entire scalp, there was no mistaking Hawarel. He not only fought against the clamps and straps which held him to the table, but in addition he jerked his head with sharp, short pulls, to dislodge disks fastened to his forehead, and from there, by wire, to a vast box of a machine which filled one quarter of the cabin. npamisan stepped over the inert men, reached the side of the table and jerked the disks away from the prisoner's head; perhaps his determined struggles had already loosened them somewhat. His mouth had opened and shut as she came to him as if he were forming words she could not hear, or he could not voice. But as the apparatus came away in her hands, he gave a cry of triumph. "Get me loose!" he commanded. She was already examining the under part of the table for the locking mechanism of those straps and clamps. It was only seconds before she was able to obey his order. He sat upright, bare to the waist, and she saw beneath, where his shoulders and the upper part of his spine had rested on the table, a complicated series of disks. "Ah!" Before she could move he scooped up the laser she had laid on the edge of the table when she had freed him. And the gesture he made with it might not have been only to indicate the door and the need for hurry, but perhaps also was a warning that with a weapon in his hands he now thought he was in command of the situation. "They sleep -- everywhere." she told him. "And Kas -- he is a prisoner." "I thought you could not find him -- he was not one of the crew." "He was not. But I have him now, and with him we can return." "How long will it take?" Starrex was down on one knee, searching the two men on the floor. "I can not tell." She gave him the truth. "But -- how long will these sleep? Their unconsciousness is, I think, some trick of the Over-Queen's." "It came unexpectedly for them," Starrex agreed. "And you may be right that this is only preliminary to taking over the ship. I have learned this much, that their instruments and much of their equipment has been affected so they can not trust them. Otherwise -- " His Hawarel face was grim under its bluish, deadman's coloring. "Otherwise I would not have survived this long as myself." "Let us go!" Now that she had miraculously -- or so it seemed to her -- succeeded, Tamisan was even more uneasy, wanting nothing to spoil their escape. 'T'hey found their way back to the corridor before the hatch while the ship still slept. Starrex knelt by Kas and then looked with astonishment at Tamisan. "But this is the real Kas! " "It is Kas, real enough," she agreed. "And there is a reason for that. But need we discuss it now? If the Over-Queen's men come to take this ship -- I tell you her greeting to us may be worse than any you have met here. I remember enough of the Tamisan who is the Mouth of Olava to know that." He nodded. "Can you break dream now?" She looked around her a little wildly. Concentration -- no, somehow she could not think so clearly. IF It was as if the exultation of fumes of that scented air had awakened in her was draining. And with that sapping went what she needed most. "I -- I fear not." "It is simple then." He stopped again to examine the tangle cords. "We shall have to go to where you can." She saw him set the laser on its lowest beam to bum through the cords which united Kas to the crewman, though he did not free his cousin from the rest of his bonds. But what if they marched out of the hatch into a waiting party of the Over-Queen's guards? They had the tangler, the laser, and perhaps -- just perhaps -- the half smile of fortune on their side. They would have to risk it Tamisan opened the inner door of the pressure chamber. The dead men lay there as they had fallen. Fighting nausea, she dragged one aside to make room for Star rex, who carried Kas over his shoulder, moving slowly under that burden, a fo.ld of cloak well wrapped about the prisoner to prevent any contact between the cords and Starrex's own flesh. The outer hatch was open and beyond -- A blast of icy rain, with the added bite of the wind which drove it, struck viciously at them. It had been dawn when Tamisan had entered the ship, but outside now the day was no lighter. The torches had been extinguished. Tamisan could see no lights. Shielding her eyes against the wind and the rain, she tried to make out the line of guards. Perhaps the severe weather had driven them all away. She was sure no one was waiting at the foot of the ramp, unless they were under the fins of the ship, sheltering there. And that chance would have to be taken. She said as much and Starrex nodded. "Where do we go?" "Anywhere away from the city. Give me but a little shelter and time." "Vernier's Hand over us and we can do it," he returned. "Here -- take this!" He kicked an object across the metal plates of the deck and she saw it was one of the lasers used by the crewmen. She picked it up in one hand, the tangler in her other. Burdened as he was by Kas, Starrex could not lead the way. She must now play in real life such an action role as she had many times dreamed. But this held no amusement, only a wish to scuttle quickly into any form of safety wind and rain would allow her. The ramp being at such a steep angle, she feared slipping on it and had to belt the tangler, hold on grimly with one hand and go much more slowly than her fast beating heart demanded, anxious lest Starrex in turn might lose footing and slam into her, carrying them both on to disaster. The strength of the storm was such that it was a battle to gain step after step, even though she reached the ground without mishap. Tamisan was not sure in which direction she must head now to avoid the Castle and the city. Her memory seemed befuddled by the storm and she could only guess. Also she was afraid of losing contact with Starrex; as slowly as she went, he dragged even more behind. Then she stumbled against an upright stakje. She put out her hand and fumbled along it enough to know that this was one of the rain quenched torches. It heartened her a little to learn that they had reached the barrier and that no guards stood here. Perhaps the storm was a life saver for the three of them. Tamisan lingered, waiting for Starrex to catch up. Now he caught at the torch, steadying himself as if he needed that support. His voice came in wind-deadened gusts, labored. "I may have in this Hawarel a good body, but I am not a heavy duty android. We must find your shelter." There was a dark shadow to her left; it could be a coppice. Even trees or tall brush could give them some measure of relief. "Over there." She pointed, but did not know if, in this gloom, he could see it. "Yes." He straightened a little under the burden of Kas, staggering in the direction of the shadow. They had to beat their way into the vegetation. Tamisan, having two arms free, broke the path for Starrex. She might have used the laser to cut, but the ever-present fear that they might need the charges for future protection kept her from a waste of their slender resources for defense. At last, at the cost of branchwhipped and thorn-ripped weals in their flesh, they came into a space which was a little more open. Starrex allowed his burden to fall to the ground. "Can you break dream now?" He squatted down beside Kas, as she dropped to sit panting near him. "I can -- " But she got no farther. There was a sound which cut through even the tumult of the storm, and that part of them which was allied to this world knew it for what it was, the warning of a hunt. And -- since they were able to hear it -- they must be the hunted I "The Itter Hounds!" He put their peril into words. "And they run for us!" . Mouth of Olava or not, when the Itter Hounds coursed on one's track there was no defense, for they could not be controlled once they were loosed to chase. "We can not fight them." "Do not be too sure of that," he IF answered. "We have the lasers, weapons not of this world. The weapon which put the ship's crew to sleep did not vanquish us; so might an off-world weapon react the other way here -- " "But Kas -- " She thought she had found a weak point in his reasoning, much as die wanted to believe he had guessed rightly. "Kas is in his own form, which is perhaps more akin to the crewmen now than to us. And, by the way, how is it that he is?" She kept hej tale terse, but told him of her dream within a dream and how she had found Kas. She heard him laugh. "I was right then in thinking my dear cousin might well be at the center of this web! However, now he is as completely enmeshed as the rest of us. As a fellow victim he may be more cooperative." "Entirely so, my noble lord!" The voice out of the dark between them was composed. "You are awake then, cousin. Well, we would be even more awake. There is a struggle here in progress between two sets of enemies third. We had better travel swiftly elsewhere if we would save our skins. What of it, Tamisan?" "I must have time." "What I can do to buy it for you, I will!" That carried the force of a sworn oath. "If the lasers act outside the laws of this world, it may be that they can even stop the Itter Hounds. But to get to it! " She had no proper conductor, nothing but her will and the need. Putting out her hands she touched the bare, wet flesh of Starrex's shoulder, was more cautious in seeking a hold on Kas, lest she encounter one of the tangle cords. Then she exerted her full will and looked far in, not out. It was no use, her craft failed her. There was that momentary sensation of suspension between two worlds. Then she was back in the dark brush where the growing walls did not hold off the rain. "I can not break the dream. There is no energy machine to step up the power." But she did not add that perhaps she might have done it for herself alone. Kas laughed then. "It would seem my sealer still works in spite of all your meddling, Tamisan. I fear, my noble lord, you will have to prove the effectiveness of your weapons after all. Though you might set me free and give me arms, necessity making allies of us after all." "Tamisan!" Starrex's voice was one to bring her out of the dull anguish of her failure. "This dream -- remember, it may not be a usual dream after all. Could another world door be opened?" "Which world?" At that moment her memories of reading and viewing tapes were a whirl in her head. And the voiceless call of the Itter Hounds to which this Tamisan was attuned made her whole body cringe and shiver, addled her thinking even more. " Which world? Any one -- think, girl, think! Take a single change if you must, but think!" "I can not. The Hounds -- aheee -- they come -- they come! We are meat for the fangs of those who course the Dark Runnels under moonless skies! We are lost!" The Tamisan who dreamed slipped into the Mouth of Olava, and the Mouth of Olava vanished in turn, and she was only a naked, defenseless thing crouching under the shadow of a death against which she could raise no shield. She was -- Her head rocked, the flesh of her cheeks stung as she swayed from the slaps dealt her by Starrex. "You are a dreamer!" His voice was imperative. "Dream now then as you have never dreamed before! For there is that in you which can do this, if you will it." It was like the action of that strange scented air in the ship; her will was reborn, her mind steadied. Tamisan the dreamer pushed out that other weak Tamisan. But -- what world? A point -- give her but a decision point in history! " Yaaaah -- " the cry from Starrex's throat was not now meant to prouse her. Perhaps it was the battle challenge of Hawarel. There was a pallid snout, about which hung a dreadful sickening phosphorescence, thrust through the screen of brush. She sensed rather than saw Starrex fire the laser at it. A decision -- Water beating in on her. Wind rising as if to claw them out of the poor refuge to be easy meat for the hunters. Drowning -- sea -- sea -- the Sea Kings of Nath! Feverishly she seized upon that. But she knew so little of the Sea Kings who had once held the lace of islands east of Ty-Kry. They had threatened Ty-Kry itself -- so long ago that that war was legend, not true history. And they had been tricked, their kind and his war chiefs taken by treachery. The #I Cup of Nath. Tamisan forced herself to remember, to hold on that. And, with her choice made, again her mind steadied. She threw out her hands, once more touching Starrex and Kas, though she did not choose the latter; her hand went without her conscious bidding as if he must be included or all would fail. The #I Cup of Nath -- this time it would not be drunk! 'T'amisan opened her eyes. Tamisan -- no -- she was Tami-sinl She sat up and looked about her. Soft covering of pale green fell away from her bare body. And, inspecting that same body, she saw that IF her skin was no longer warmly brown but w as instead a pearl white. What she sat within was a bed place fashioned in the form of a great shell, the other half of it arching over head to form a canopy. Also -- she was not alone. Cautiously, she turned a little to survey her sleeping companion. His head was somewhat hidden from her so that she could see only a curve of shoulder as pale as her own, hair curled in a tight fitting cap, the red-brown shade of storm tossed sea-weed. Warily, very warily, she put out a finger tip, touched it to his hunched shoulder -- and knew! He sighed, began to roll over toward her. Tamisan smiled and clasped her arms under her small, high breasts. She was Tam-sin, and this was Kilwar, who had been Starrex and Hawarel -- but was now Lord of LockNer of the Nearer Sea. But, there had been a third! Her smile faded as memory sharpened. Kasl Anxiously she looked about the room, its nacre-coated walls, its pale green hangings, all familiar to Tam-sin. No Kas. Which did not mean that he might not be lurking somewhere about, a disruptive factor if his nature held true. A warm arm swung up about her waist. Startled she looked down into green eyes, sea-green eyes, eyes which knew her -- and which also knew that other Tamisan. Below those very knowledgeable eyes lips smiled. "I think," his voice was familiar and yet strange, "that this is going to be a very interesting dream, my Tam-sin." She allowed herself to be drawn down beside him. Perhaps -- no, surely -- he was right. by Sydney van Scyoc by Richard Wilson i by Terry Carr  Alexei Panshin L, An Interview with Lester del Rey Lester del Rey, Ij's Managing Editor and author of a score of science-fiction books ( not to mention an equal number of non-sf titles), has been writing science ficion since before some present writers were born. We found a good opportunity to start him talking, so we turned on the tape recorder and let it run -- and the following is the result. I got interested in science fiction as soon as I could read... or a little bit before. I had Jules Verne read to me before I could read. As soon as I'd learned how, we had a pretty good collection of his stuff and I read it all. I read Wells, from the library, Burroughs when I could get them. As a matter of fact, the first hard-cover book I ever sent away for and bought -- I spent good money for it, forty-nine cents, I'd have you know, in the Grosset  Dunlap edition -- was Burroughs. Sooner or later somebody gave me a copy of a science-fiction magazine, but I never saw them again for quite a while; I never saw a magazine stand that carried them, in Minnesota, and had to wait till I got to Washington. I had to borrow from Milt Rothman to backtrack and read all the old stuff. That first magazine had had an Ed Hamilton center-of-the-earth story in it, and I thought he was great. Doc Smith I loved, of course; John Campbell, with his heavyscience Arcot, Wade and Morey stories. I liked Raymond Gallun very much, in fact his stuff I can still look back on with pleasure. I was pretty much for the heavyscience and strong adventure people, at least until I came across Stanley Weinbaum's A Martian Odyssey. That was quite a shock and quite a revelation; it was a U# sort of turning point in my whole attitude. I kept on reading sf, just for fun, until some years later I was reading a story called Pithecanthropus Rejectus, by Manly Wade Wdlman, along about December, #. I didn't like it. I said so -- perhaps in slightly strong words; matter of fact, I threw the magazine across the room. The gal I was going with had some very harsh words about that, and about my right to criticize anyway, since I hadn't written anything myself. I wasn't presumptuous enough to think I could get a story published, but I was pretty sure I could write one, and even get a letter from the editor instead of a rejection slip -- I had pretty good reason to believe that, since I more or less knew the editor, at least through letters. The girl doubted that too, so I had to sit down and write a story to prove my point. I wrote it at # words, because I was suffering from logorrhea, as all writers do in the beginning, but I was smart enough to know that you got much better attention from an editor when you sent him a short piece first, so I cut it down to # by taking a red pencil and going zoop , zoop, zoop and retyping it. I sent it off; and actually, I didn't get a letter from the editor; what he did was to send me a check -- just about the first week of January, #. After that, of course, I sat down and wrote a couple of others. They didn't sell -- or not then; one did some years later, another got lost. That one was about digging ice on Mars. A real genuine adventure story, full of a girl, and monsters, and all kinds of things. Looking back on it, I'm not so sure it's a bad thing it got lost. But that was it, for then. I'd been to the well three times and sold once, more or less by accident ; I figured that, like most writers, I was a one-story writer, so I gave it up... until the editor wrote me and asked for another story. So I went out and bought a copy of Writers # Yearbook , in which he'd been talking about what he liked in sf stories. He had a long article, pointing out that he wanted human reactions; strong human element; if the story was about a robot, he wanted a human robot. So I said to myself, uh-huh, what's the most human thing a robot can do? Fall in love? So I sat down and wrote Helen O'Loy , which he bought. And then I began doing it seriously -- in all honesty I don't know how many, but around twenty science-fiction books and I don't know how many others. I think good science-fiction is very much worth reading. But I'm not really interested too much in what it's "worth"; I think it's fun to read, and that interests me a lot more. If I want to get educated in philosophy and the injustices that are done to the poor people of the Stuth and what every good yotiftg college boy is thinking and so Oft, #I go out and get myself serioas books on the subject. The purpose of fiction is to entertain; I prefer to be entertained. Oft of the beauties of good science fiction is you never really quite know what's going to happen next. There are unlimited possibilities A good science-fiction writer is gpiftg to have details that you never thought about, because he's building a dream right in front of you. He's making up a whole world, a whole civilization before your eyes. I ttke science in my science fiction. I don't demand it every time, little romance now mid then; but I like to see whatever science is there reasonably accurate. If, the man. is going to use science basically for his takeoff, I want him to use it, I want him to develop it accurately. There's plenty going on in science right now that would make good sf stories. Take biochemistry. The business of gene engineering, mutations created by the future gene manipulator, has tremendous possibilities, and damn few sciencefiction writers are doing anything with it. It seems to me this is the first time a wonderful new field has opened up, and sf writers have said ho-hum and gone back to imitating i #  the old stuff. I did one, called The Eleventh Commandment . The hero is a Martian cytologist, used to manipulating genes; I had to set up a way where he could actually get into it and manipulate it: a special microscope, with fields to control the temperature very rapidly, so that he could slow down the cell and hold it for operations, or speed it up to see the results. There was a plague with the deep-sea plant life, so that the one-celled plants were suddenly flipping over to animals -- there is, incidentally, one form of such life that actually does that, but in the story it does it consistently. The problem was to find out why. Our hero finds out that there's a virus in there which apparently has mutated, and now swaps parts with these cells. There's more, of course. The point I'm making is that I don't know very many other examples of that in modem sf. And I don't know why. And the new cosmological stuff is interesting. I think that in the old days writers would have been going nuts about quasars, coming up with half a dozen cockeyed ideas about pulsars and so on. But they don't, any more. I'd like to see Isaac Asimov writing a story about an android, using the genuine biological knowledge he has, creating the android because it was necessary for some empire-saving reasons. I wish Fred IF Hoyle would touch on astronomy In his stories more; he can write science fiction, and he's got the knowledge for it, and a good imagination, too. I'd like to see what Heinlein could do in that field. He's given little bits of hints at times; in Methuselah's Children, for instance. Larry Niven, I think, is doing a fine job with the neutron stars and the exploding galaxies; I'm all in favor of it. What I'd like to see him try is something with a little romance in it. Among the contemporary writers, most of the so-called New Wave writers I don't have much use for. (Note the "so-called." Brian Aldiss for instance, I don't regard as a New Wave writer; he himself says he isn't.) Most of Zelazny's stuff I think has been 'damn good; I don't like some of his stuff, because I think he's gotten much too typed, straining too hard to get religious elements in, where he no longer has much enthusiasm; but he's good. I like Burt Filer's stuff; I thought he was a happy combination of old and new. And I like Tiptree's work. He has something that's rather unusual nowadays; he even has a good bit of style. There's liveliness to it, and a certain adaptability to it. I'd be glad to discuss sciencefiction critics, but first someone will have to name one. There are a few good book reviewers. I have no objection to Schuyler Miller as a reviewer; he gives you a kind of an idea of whether you want to read it or not. I rather liked Bob Silverberg in that field. I thought he did a good competent review; but that wasn't criticism. When you use the word "critic," you probably mean people like Damon Knight and Jim Blish. Damon's criticism, as far as I'm concerned, is mostly a total misunderstanding of the "new criticism" that went out in the '#'s. Blish can be perceptive as hell -- and jinperceptive as hell. You have to read the book first to decide whether you like his criticism of it. Real criticism I don't think exists in the field. Every so often a science-fiction movie comes along that's delightful. I don't know whether it's every ten years or every twenty years. The Day the Earth Stood Still was a fine job. I liked Forbidden Planet. Planet of the Apes wasn't bad; a little heavy-handed and a little obvious, but it was kind of fun. #? Well, I've said my piece on that. The acting was better than usual; the photography was often superb; some of the mechanical work in it was wonderful; it's just too bad that Stanley Kubrick couldn't let Clarke do a real sf story, and then do his best to follow it. Some of the TY hasn't been bad. A few of the early Star Trek things IS Controversial Uninhibited Deadly Serious Humorous and Incredibly Interesting! Brian Aldiss... Poul Anderson  . c . Piers Aafhony... Isaac Asimov   . Richard Bergeron    Bob Bloch .   Vaughts Bode... John Brunner .  . L Sprague de Camp   . Terry Carr .  . John Christopher... Philip K. Dick ... Harlan Ellison   . Philip Jose Fanner... Jack Gaughan...  Harry Harrison... Lee Hoffmgn ... John Hayden Howard .  . Leo P. Kelley .   Deem R. Koontz   . Anne McCaffrey .  . Michael Moorcock... Alexei Pansfcat... Mack Reynolds... Bill Rotsler... Norman Spinrad... Bob Tucker... Harry Warner, Jr... Ted White... ... and many, many more... tahard E Geis does his thing. f  P. O. Box #   # i  were quite good. There was a lot of hokum built in, because they used series characters, but there were several good stories -- Gene Roddenberry's own most of the time. His pilot script, with the cat, was almost as if Van Vogt had written it, and. I loved it. Most TV in the area has been either horror or fantasy, and the horror stuff, I think, is anti-science fiction. I said the other day at the Modern Language Association meeting that I thought one of the things that science fiction expresses strongly is that all intelligences are brothers; but the basic rule in most TV stuff is that it doesn't matter how intelligent you are, if your skin isn't put on right you're an alien and frightful. That I resent. What I wish sf writers would do is think . Think about their situation until they begin to feel it; not be smart-Alecky. I'd like to pass a law against their believing they were artists. I think the average reader of science fiction is a lot better judge of the medium than most people seem to think he is. If a reader likes a story, he doesn't have to give reasons for it. He's perfectly capable of making up his own mind -- and, on the average, I think he'll be right. IF (Continued from page #) suit's control-bumps, lie swung the light across it again, slowly. Finally he decided it was only the shifting light that had made the thing appear to move very slightly. He detoured a hundred feet around it. But before he'd gotten much beyond, he found that he wasn't going to be able to avoid the machines by that far -- there were too many of them. Some were as big as the first one he saw. Others were the smaller kind he'd seen pictures of. He saw one biped robot -- he knew those too, from the old books -- but it was prone and inert, and didn't look much like a man. One of its legs was cut off below the knee-joint. The stub had a fused look, as if some kind of heat-beam had burned it. There were other signs of violence too. Most of the 'pairbots had tentacles missing, and he saw several of those amputated flexible steel members, many-jointed like the legs of insects, lying about. If there'd been any human corpses after those fearful battles, they were gone now. He wound his way through the relics. Ben Tomsun said he was off line a little, so he moved to his left. Presently his beam showed the bulkhead -- a vertical wall of steel rising into the darkness. He located the hatch and paused to look behind and to both sides. Before be approached the hatch he talked to Ben Tomsun. "There's a machine about twenty yards in front of it." "Yes; it's been there for about seventy years without moving. There's another not far away from it. You'll have to pass between. Tell me when you're within ten yards of the hatch. Our detection's not very precise there." P ry strode slowly toward the gap between the two machines. The one nearest the hatch was medium-sized, and a specialized sort. It had the tri-wheeled base, and in the center of that was a vertical column that looked as if it were extensible -- some kind of a hoist. There were half a dozen of the steel tentacles, and a battery of things shaped like drums. Those looked familiar, from some picture. Yes -- they were searchlights. He could see the shattered glass now, and the silvery curved reflectors. He moved a step closer -- and the machine suddenly rolled to intercept him! Simultaneously there was a loud buzzing in his helmet. Distracted, he turned to run -- and was suddenly bathed in dazzling light from one side! Through the buzzing in his helmet, which was maddening, he thought he heard a faint voice shouting. And now other lights converged on him. He spun, saw vague shapes rolling toward him and crouched in pure terror for a moment. But he wasn't a guardsman for nothing! Shame drove some of the panic from him. He reached hastily for suit-controls; he pressed bumps that killed his own lights and sent him shooting straight up. He darted to one side to escape for a moment the savagely searching lights of the machines and swung his head about, trying to build up a mental picture of what lay about him. He was going to have to flee in the dark, and he didn't want to slam into some trave-column I The lights found him again. He zoomed away erratically, trying to get behind a column; but the searchlights came from too many directions. He dodged again. If only the maddening buzz in his helmet wwdd stop. He remembered Ben Temsun's saying something about the lowest row of studs. He pressed one. The buzz broke off for an instant and resumed on a slightly different tone -- but louder, if anything! He tried another bump. Blessed silence! He went limp with relief. Now at least he could think. He zoomed higher, slanting up toward the outer hull, where the lights would have to reach farther. They hadn't found him now for several seconds; all they did was provide light so he could see his way around. But unless Captain Gerlik or whoever else directed the machines was stupid as well as mad, that wouldn't last for long. He had to find cover. Back into the sinus? No -- he suspected very strongly there'd be an ambush waiting. Some other hatch that opened out of this compartment? He couldn't go around looking for one. Nor could he, apparently, talk to Ben Tomsun; the old books had described radio jamming clearly enough so Pry recognized it. He needed a place to hide for a while until he could think, or until Ben Tomsun and his allies had time to organize help. That broken column! 'fT#hile the slashing lights lasted  he shot that way, swerving and trying to stay hidden. He had to stop and wait for a searchlight to swing this way before he could see his objective. Then, when the light had passed, he flew slowly, groping ahead with his arms. He felt the girders, brought himself to a hover and tried to squeeze in between two. Not enough room! He moved to the side, found another gap and slipped in through it. He maneuvered until his body was down inside the hollow column, with only his helmet in the clear so he could see. His panic was gone now. He knew he was in terrible danger, but it wasn't immediate. He watched the machines rolling about. They apparently knew, he'd headed aft IF and that he'd gone far up toward the outer hull, and they were organized in a line of search, their lights probing aloft. Would they recognize this pieced-together trave-column as a possible hidingplace? If so, he'd have to be ready to move fast! Of course, if the column were hollow and uninterrupted for its full length, he could retreat far down. That wasn't inviting, but at least he could get out of sight. Then he saw one of the mediumsized machines rise slowly from the sinus wall. His midriff contracted. So some of his mechanical pursuers, at least, had grav-lifts in working order. Should he leave his concealment and try for the hole back into Sinus B? If he could get through that... No. He wasn't going to lead these madman's machines back to his people. So long as Captain Gerlik's fatherly attitude lasted, they'd be all right. Pry mustn't let the Ship find out he was one of them! Four machines were off the steel floor now. Only one maneuvered easily, but the others could fly and bring their searchlights up near the outer hull. He saw the agile one turn itself slowly in midair and continue on until its wheels touched the outer hull. The event brought him a moment of confusion -- he'd been thinking of the outer hull as up, and now suddenly, as he watched the machine begin to roll toward him, he realized that the outer hull could be considered down as well. All right, he thought angrily, to the devil with that! Up or down, it's coming this way. Its light moved toward his hiding-place. He lowered himself hastily out of sight. Other lights were sweeping the outer hull now too, and reflected light spilled in upon him. Thinking he'd better reconnoiter into the column, at least, while he had the chance, he let himself fall slowly. His feet touched something yielding. Hastily he moved aside and peered at the thing. The dim light from above showed a slick surface. The light strengthened for a moment... He shuddered. The thing was a human corpse in a pressure-suit. He hung there staring at it. nphis victim, unlike the frozen ones in the dark hall of Sinus B, hadn't escaped decay. The death-face behind the helmet window was ghastly; the flesh rotted away, the teeth exposed. TTie grim relic seemed anchored somehow to the inner curve of the column. The light faded. Pry hovered for a while until he felt it wasn't coming back, then rose to where he could peer out. The machines weren't far away, but the pattern of the search seemed to be aimed IF even farther after -- where the searchlights showed a warped and ruptured bulkhead, not more than two hundred feet from the hole into the sinus. Did they suspect he'd fled into a farther-aft compartment? Maybe. Or maybe they were Just faking -- Gerlik might cunningly hope to lure him into the open. Well, he wasn't going to bite yet. He waited. After a while curiosity prompted him to go down and investigate the suited corpse that hung there so oddly. Feeling about in the dark, he'd presently solved the thing. The man, obviously, had been dropping down inside the column -- hastily, perhaps, to avoid some pursuit -- and had gotten snagged. There, on the otherwise smooth steel, a terrible spike thrust upward and inward -- a spike created by the impact of something that had crashed against the outside of the column. That murderous dagger had punched through the plastic suit and into the man's spine. When? At the time of the Catastrophe? Or more recently, in some furtive reconnaissence into this dark no-man's-land? Pry brooded about it for a while. He himself might meet some such fate before the hour was out! Then, slowly, an idea began to crystallize in his mind. He was too late to do anything for the dead man -- but possibly the dead man could do something for him! Did the punctured suit still have power? Of course -- it was hanging precisely where he'd let go of it after hoisting it off the snag, which me,ant it was set on automatic hover. The occupant must have accomplished that much before he died. With queasy shivers along his spine, Pry worked the grisly thing up the column and got it wedged between two girders, aligned so the head aimed aft and a little down. Then he felt carefully of its control bumps, readying himself to push two. But before he did that he tried his own helmet radio again -- and got the same loud, distracting buzz. Well, he couldn't talk to Ben Tomsun yet, then. Should he wait longer, hoping rescue would come? He thought not. Ben Tomsun must assume he was dead by now. And the longer he waited, the more likely the machines or whoever directed them were to decide he was still in this compartment after all, and concentrate here. If he could get near the hatch and run back and forth for a moment, wouldn't Ben Tomsun be able to feel him? That was a question. What were his alternatives? To try for the sinus and hide there; to look for some other way out of the compartment; to wait where he was. Or maybe to dash out in a brief attack against the machines. None of those attracted him. T T e took a deep breath and  pressed the chosen bumps on the corpse's suit. The girders held it for a moment; then it tugged free and slanted aft, fairly well aimed toward the hole in the sinus wall. Pry waited no longer. He launched himself in the opposite direction slowly, straining his eyes to see by what dim light bounced this way. He swerved around a column, then tilted himself parallel to it so that, by twisting his helmet, he could see aft. The searchlights were still swinging there. He passed another column. He couldn't see the suited corpse when they located it, but he could tell by the way the lights swung. Now most of them converged on one spot. His pulse quickened with hope, and he turned his head forward again. But there was very little light reflecting to this end of the compartment now. He had to go by dead reckoning. When he felt he must surely be near the bulkhead, he drifted very slowly. Finally his outstretched fingers touched a surface. He moved laterally to make sure it was the bulkhead, then let himself down slowly until he felt the sinus wall beneath his feet. He looked aft. The machines were headed this way again! Sickness formed in his middle. Should he grope along, hoping to find the hatch by feel? Suppose he ran back and forth where he was? Would Ben Tomsun correctly interpret whatever was felt, or assume it was some light machine? If he only knew more about things! The machines were coming as if they'd already seen through the trick. Then Pry realized Gerlik could feel him here! In desperation, he turned on all his lights and directed the beam along the base of the bulkhead. Where was the hatch ? There! In dismay, he saw that he'd missed it by nearly a hundred yards. He ran as fast as the suit would let him, swerved around a dead machine and cast a hasty look aft. Search-lights speared toward him now. Was Ben Tomsun alert? Would he understand? A machine rolled feebly to intercept him. He dodged around it. Another was between him and the hatch -- and moving as if to block it physically with its own bulk. Searchlights fixed on him precisely, making him feel as conspicuous and vulnerable as an egg on a table. Something heavy hurtled through the air, missing him only by two feet, and slammed against the bulkhead at hip-height. He sprinted desperately, seeing that the slowlytrundling machine would reach the hatch before he did. A voice -- Gerlik's, no doubt projected via the machines -- thundered, "Stop, traitor!" IF 'T'hen, abruptly, the hatch slid open and light spilled through! The slow machine didn't pause. But from the open hatch shot another big shape, blocking the light for an instant. It crashed directly into the blockader. Pry felt the jar and heard the rending of metal and saw objects fly. Then he dodged around the locked-together machines and hurled himself through the hatch. It slammed shut behind him. And then he stood gasping for breath and staring at four men in suits identical to his own. Each had a pistol of some sort -- a heavy kind -- in his hand. But the hands hung limp as four pairs of eyes stared back at Pry. Presently he felt himself grinning. It wasn't all one-sided, this wonder he felt! It was the first time they'd ever seen a man from Sinus B! One of them grinned back and said in ordinary English, "Turn on your radio." Pry said, "It's being jammed." But he tried it nevertheless. To his surprise the buzzing was faint, and through it came the voice of Ben Tomsun. "So you got through alive! I hope you'll let your escort bring you to my compartment at once. After all this, I'm anxious to get a look at you!" There were several of the big compartments to pass through, all of them lighted and all apparently in friendly hands, then an airlock with double doors. After that one of the four men said, "We're in Nose Cone now." Nose Cone! A phrase from legends. Pry looked around. The compartment was smaller than the ones he'd just passed through, and there were a number of doors in it -- overhead as well as in the floor and walls. From somewhere came the muffled hum and throb of machinery. And then there was a twisting corridor that left Pry with the impression they'd entered a gravity at right angles to the one he'd expected; and there were people, who stared at him, and a glimpse of a tree-covered deck through a doorway. Then, finally, divested of his suit, he stood in a small room, alone except for Ben Tomsun. T)ry realized he must have resisted, at gun level, the knowledge that Ben Tomsun wasn't a living man; for he was dazed now. The cabinet of shiny metal was rectangular and more or less the size of a man. That helped a little. So did the horizontal row of small holes at about face-height and the mesh-covered opening below them. These could be thought of as eyes, ears, nostrils and mouth. The voice did come from the mesh-covered opening. But aside from that, it was a simple featureless box, probably of acrysteel. Ben Tomsun must have known how he felt. "Forgive the way I present myself. I'm not really confined to this box. My personality is scattered among various computerbanks of the Ship, all scrambled up with other personalities, history, technologies, Euclidean and nonEuclidean geometries, and data such as the germination-time of peachpits. But I and the other recorded brains prefer these cabinets. They give us at least a tenuous simile to the time when we had live bodies." Pry stared dumbly for a minute. The first words he blurted were, "You don't sound insane!" Ben Tomsun sighed. "I hope I'm not. I can't explain to you exactly how things are with me. There was the original Ship's computer-intelligence, then human personalities were programmed in, for reasons that were probably partly emotional. But some of us changed. I guess that was inevitable. Gradually we took over many of the Ship's functions. Whether the purely mechanical intelligence would have gone insane at the time of the Catastrophe is something we debate and ponder among ourselves. But Captain Gerlik and a few others did lose their sanity. He and one other were in control of most of the Ship; and as I've told you, they warred between them. Gerlik overcame the other personality, or absorbed it. The rest of us hadn't nearly as much power, but by joining together and by careful maneuvering, we were able to clear him out of Nose Cone and some compartments of Main Hull. We infiltrated the environment-maintenance systems for Sinus B, but couldn't take them over. And that leaves your people in serious danger. There's a reason why we have to get you out of there soon. Well, two reasons, actually -- the less urgent being the need to take over and finish repairs." Pry said, "I can understand that. With the universe destroyed, the Ship has to last as long as is physically possible. Even so... " Ben Tomsun chuckled. "That's one of the reasons we wanted you up here -- to convince you that the universe has not been destroyed! We don't know precisely what Captain Gerlik or his rival told your ancestors at the time of the Catastrophe, nor all of what he's told you since. By the way -- won't you please tell me your name?" "Well... Pryingboy Thorp. I guess I was, uh, a nosy child." 'T'he voice laughed briefly. "Well, Thorp, this is what happened. We were skirting a cloud nebula -- a great mass of dust and gas -- when we were unexpectedly thrown off course by a small, dark, very dense, invisible body -- probIF ably the core of a long-dead star. It whirled us into the cloud, tailfirst. Tidal forces -- I guess you don't know about those -- did some damage, but the worst was the frictional heat. Spots of the hull softened and bulged out and ruptured. You've seen the hasty patches. The heat penetrated far enough to soften the wall of Sinus B too, in one spot. It was touch and go whether we'd survive at all. Captain Gerlik, who was under the worst strain for a long period, went insane. While we were in the cloud, the stars were hidden from us. That's all." The voice paused as if the cabinet were scrutinizing Pry. "You don't look as if you believed me." Ben Tomsun sighed again. "I wish it were possible to put you in a pressure-suit and send you Outside to see for yourself, but that would take too much time. This will have to do." A section of the wall behind the cabinet suddenly slid aside. For a moment Pry thought there was a five-foot-square hole; then he saw that it was a dark screen of some kind. The screen suddenly blossomed with tiny points of light. At one edge was a convoluted mass of light and dark. Ben Tomsun said, "That luminoisity at the edge is the cloud we passed through. The points of light are stars. Have you seen pictures of a starfield?" Hope and doubt fought a cutlass-battle inside Pry. He swallowed hard. "I've seen small pictures." "Now," the voice said. The screen suddenly lit all over. There was a mottled pattern of greenish blue. It seemed to shrink in upon itself, and became a half-disc. Pry drew in his breath sharply. "That's a picture of Earth! Is Earth still -- " Ben Tomsun said, "We're far out of telescope-range of Sol, but we have no reason to think that anything's happened to Earth. This is not a picture of Earth -- it's the next planet we're going to colonize. It's earthlike and primitive. Listen carefully, Thorp! We're in wide orbit around this planet right now. All of us, except for a few who remain aboard Main Hull in orbit to do necessary things, such as repairing the hull and trying to cure Captain Gerlik, will be landing in Nose Cone. Your people will have to clear one of the Sinus B exits your ancestors blocked up and come out the near end. Oh, I don't mean within the next few hours; it'll take time to convince them. And a few people have to land in gravcars -- you've read about those? -- for preliminary explorations. But you will have to start persuading your people. The alternative is that we'll try to take over control of the sinus from Captain Gerlik. And that might end in disaster for your people." The voice was silent for a minute. "This is a lot for you to swallow in a hurry, I know, but I haven't time to show you more directly, or to let you mull it over. One reason I haven't is that the agent who went into the sinus may be in deadly peril. You have to get back in time to forestall any execution. Now, may I have your decision?" T)ry stood there, so full of feelings he could hardly breathe. He was shocked and angry at such a blunt ultimatum. Yet, if it were all true... To have a whole planet to live on... The voice said gently, "If you succeed with your own people quickly, you can be part of one of the exploration teams. Is that any inducement?" Pry squirmed mentally. He finally burst out, "Damn it! If you're eight hundred years old -- " "Six hundred. I never saw Earth." "Well, if you're that old, you know how I feel! Of course it's an inducement! Any man... But I'm no spy! I wouldn't know the first thing about -- about -- " "About spreading a sudden truthPi Naturally we wouldn't expect you to work alone. That agent who's already there -- if you get back in time -- " Pry trembled for a minute more, then took a deep breath. "All right! What choice do I have, anyway? I -- I have to believe you or disbelieve you, and..." He stared away for a moment. "I lied to you about that agent. I said we had him under control. We didn't. But if he tries to pose as one of us -- " Ben Tomsun said amusedly, "I knew you were lying." Pry scowled at the cabinet. "Oh. Well... Are you going to tell me how to find him?" "Not exactly." "Not -- why, in God's name?" "Because it isn't a 'he', and you've undoubtedly already found her. She was going to call herself 'Marytwo Garth.' " Ben Tomsun said tersely, "We had to make contact. You, or your ancestors, killed every man we sent in. She volunteered. We aren't playing games, Thorp! Will you work with her?" Pry tinned slowly and took a few blind steps. Such a big suit, and such a small girl... But it was clever. And she must have stuck that dart into her own shoulder, calmly abandoned herself to unconsciousness and whatever luck had in store. After first stopping Muller, so he couldn't report. What a woman! He whirled back to face the cabinet. "I'll help! And -- uh -- that exploration team I may go on. Might she, uh, be part of it too?" IF hue -- Dear Editor: It's hard to believe that none of the Huers  Criers who have expressed their appreciation for Asimov's "The Holmes-Ginsbook Device" (Dec. #) have detected this story's most delicious quality, nameon Watson's  Crick's Nobelled remolecule. The parody begins in the very title (read "Watson-Crick" for "Holmes-Ginsbook") and goes on from there in remarkably detailed parallel to the original. That the spirit in which Asimov wrote it was not entirely one of good clean fun only adds spice to the knowledgeable reader's enjoyment, for the malice is entirely justified -- the Watson-Crick work scarcely begins to exemplify the independence and originality that a Nobel Prize is supposed to token, and unlike Watson few good scientists see their research primarily as a means to ego glorification. I don't mean to suggest for a moment that the typical scientist is self-effacingly indifferent to status and adulation; but these are secondary gains from his research, not its main purpose -- Alberta, Department of Psychology, Edmonton, Canada.  You're right, of course about the story being a take-off on the book. Dr. Asimov -- to use his official title -- was having his fun at certain traits he found in the original. Of course, he was good natured about it, unlike some who seem to have been very bitter about the account. As you may have noticed, we tried to indicate by a kind of atrocious pun in the "blurb" over the story that "Holmes-Ginsbook" was a parody. It's a little hard to generalize about what leads a scientist to win a Nobel prize, however. Undoubtedly a great many men -- Fermi, for example -- have been motivated only by a truly scientific desire to understand some aspect of the universe. Does it really matter? It might be nice to think of all scientists as highminded men who care not for the plaudits of the masses, or even the highest award of their fellows. But in any event, somehow the work gets done. It isn't the motivation, but the increased understanding of the great environment around us, that remains when the tumuk and the shouting die. -- Editor UI line Inn, South Capitol and I Street, S.W. Washington D.C. Guest of Honor: Lester del Rey. Membership: #, in advance; #, at the door. For information: Jay Haldeman, # Woodbourne Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland #. burgh regional convention). At Allegheny Motor Inn, # Beers School Road, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. Guest of Honor: Robert Silverberg. Features a banquet. Membership: #, in advance, #, at the door. For information: Peter Hays, #I Wightman, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #. Honor: Ed Hamilton and Leigh Brackett Motor Lodge, Detroit, Michigan. Membership: #, advance; #, at the door. For information: Detroit Triple Fan Fair, # Toledo Avenue, Detroit, Michigan #. four or six weeks, and college credit may be granted. Faculty: Robin Scott, Frederik Pohl, Frits Leiber, Harlan Ellison, Damon Knight and Kate Wilhelm. The cost is # for each two-week segmant and includes full room and board. For information: Robin Scott Wilson, English Department, Clarion State College, Clarion Pennsylvania #. # Allen Parkway, Houston, Texas. Membership #. For information: Tony Smith, # Lynnview, Houston, Texas #. The North Plaza Motel, #I Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio. For reservation blanks and information: Lou Tabakow, # St. Johns Terrace, Cincinnati, Ohio #. Monica, California. Guest of Honor: Randall Garrett. Fan Guest of Honor: Roy Tackett, Toastmaster: Harlan Ellison. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. A supporting membership of # entitles you to all publications. For Monica, California #. Make checks payable to Ken Rudolph. Inn, just off #-# and #-#, Knoxville, Tennessee. Guest of Honor: Rachel Maddux, author of "The Green Kingdom." Membership: #. For information: Janie Lamb, Rt. ##, Box #, Heiskell, Tennessee #. August #September #, #. ST. Convention. At Chase-Park Plaza Hotel, # N. Kingshighway, St. Louis, Missouri #. Guest of Honor: Jack Gaughan. Fan Guest of Honor: Ted White. Features: Project Art Show; Masquerade Ball; All-night movies -- every night; Rock Band; Panels and speeches featuring all your favorite writers, editors, and artists; Auctions; Awards Banquet and the Presentation of the Hugos. Memberships: #, attending; #, supporting. Join now and receive all the progress reports as they are published. For information: St. Louiscon, P.O. Box #, St. Louis, Missouri #. Make checks payable to St. Louiscon. Warwick Hotel, #th and Locust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Membership: #. For information: Tom Purdom, # Cedar Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvia #. The DEfVIs in your neighborhood won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh No. GMI# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! Here's what's blossoming: A well-titled anthology featuring two chillers by Mervyn Peake Stanley G. Weinbaum's long unavailable masterpiece Andrew Sinclair's stunning literary fantasy Poul Anderson's little classic And Stanley G. Weinbaum's other long unavailable masterpiece A great new Bob Shaw novel Robert Graves' unforgettable far-future utopian fantasy And what may summer bring? The best work ever (we think) of Harlan Ellison and Robert Silverberg, among other delights...  The Half Men The Towns Must Roll Do you have a restless urge to write' If so, you have much in common with successful authors. Read how # Famous Writers arc helping people turn a restless urge for self-expression into success in writing There's something different about people who feel the urge to write. They have a spiritual hunger that sets them apart even from family and friends. If you have known this burning need to write, you, too, may have the gift successful authors possess... the recurring ache to put into words your innermost thoughts, your own experiences. Max Shulman started writing because "... it was write or bust." Faith Baldwin, after # novels, still says: 'Tve never written exactly what I dreamed I'd w rite... you keep on trying." Successful authors like these know that this restless urge for self-expression is perhaps the most important ingredient of writing success. But, they realize it can waste away if you don't know' how' to get started writing, or if you hesitate to try. Several years ago they joined forces with Rod Serling. Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff, Mark Wiseman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith and Bergen Evans, to form the Famous Writers School. They poured everything they knew about writing into a remarkable new' kind of professional training course which trains you at home in your spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing -- then specialize in Fiction, Non-Fiction, Advertising Writing or Business Writing. Each of your assignments is examined by an instructor who is a professional w riter or editor. He goes over your work line by line, word by word, blue-penciling his changes right on your manuscript, much as an editor does with an established author. Then he returns it with a long letter of advice and guidance. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to the Reader's Digest, Rod Serling s urge to write made him a leading TV dramatist (Twilight Zone, Pattern j Reejuiem for a Heavyweight) and won him six Emmy awards. Ladies' Home Journal , Fantasy and Science Fii lion, and more than # other publication Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you, too, have writing abilit worth developing, send for the School's revea ing Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer othc evidence of writing aptitude -- you may enrol However, there is no obligation to do so. i ! Famous Writers School  Dept. W-#, Westport Conn. #S#( I want to know if I have writing aptitude worth developing. Please mail me, i without obligation, your Aptitude Test i and #-page brochure. ! Mr. I Mrs Age Miss Circle one and please print J Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. Vol. #, No. # Freclerik Pohl, Editor Emeritus Willy Ley, Science Editor Lester del Roy, Feature Editor Judy-Lynn Beniamin, Managing Editor Ejler Jakobsson, Editor by Keith Laumer by Dean R. Koontz by Mack Reynolds IF  Editorial I n the first eight years of Ifs existence, from that first issue in March, #, until the end of #, the magazine had half a dozen editors -- Paul Fairman, Larry Shaw, Eve Wulff, James Quinn, Damon Knight and H. L. Gold. From #I till now, the undersigned has been lucky enough to be running things... and lucky enough, too, to have won three Hugos with it as the best science-fiction magazine in the world. Enough is enough. A good time to quit is when you're ahead. And so, with considerable nostalgia and some flashes of regret, we're moving out of the way to make room for a new crew. Starting with the next issue, the Presiding Genius of If (and of the other Galaxy-group magazines as well) will be Ejler Jakobsson. Sf veterans will remember Jake as whilom editor of Super Science Stories some years ago (History does repeat! Curiously, we edited that one before him too). What Jake will do as editor you will be discovering as the issues roll along. We'll be as interested as you are in seeing what new slants on the science-fiction subject Jake will bring to bear... and we expect to be pleased with the result. And, in a way, we expect to be a little envious. F or, while there is much that is in doubt about the next few years for science fiction and for the human race, there is one thing that's for certain, and that is that it is going to be a time of excitement and a time of change. Just in the last decade we've seen such science-fiction dreams come true as men going into space, the first test flights of supersonic airliners, the wide development of communications miracles like computer facilities on an ever-increasing scale and the growth of color TV. By the time you read this, men may be walking on the surface of the Moon. For old-timers like most of us, who have discounted all these astonishing events because we lived with them for years in the pages of sf magazines long before they happened in the real world, these things already have a sort of quaint, old-fashioned sound; we've come to look for beyond them, to stranger worlds and more remote times. And yet they are now a part of our lives. And with them, they bring a freight of consequences whose ends are far from being in sight. Riots... violence... campus confrontations and civil unrest. Organ transplants and medical marvels to ease our lives on one hand; ever-increasing pollution of the be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes toaay. organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe X.H.C.  Scribe X.H.C. j San Jose, California # j Please send me the tree book, The Mastery   of Life , which explains how I may learn to j j use my faculties and powers of mind. j  Name I I Address I The Rosicrucians (not a religious WTe Rosicrucians (AM , City Zip Code environment and stresses on our nervous systems on the other. What is happening in our society is only the reflection of what has happened to our capability of changing the world to suit ourselves. When we buy scientific progress, the commodity we really want to get is betterment of the world for everyone -- betterment in tangible ways, through technology that gives us improved food and medicine, or betterment in such intangibles as a clearer understanding of the basic laws of the universe. But the price we pay is not only money. We pay for energy in the coin of air pollution. We pay for better health in the coin of overpopulation. We pay for increased capabilities in the field of defense in the heavy price of increased danger of war. Thafs not a bad thing in itself. "There Ain't No Such Thing As A Free Lunch," as Bob Heinlein said in The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress some issues back; whatever we get, we pay for one way or another. But our bookkeeping isn't up to striking a balance in these cloudy areas. Is it worth while to have two cars in every garage, at the cost of two lungfuls of carbon monoxide in every driver? We can't tell. We just don't have any good way of measuring the Good Things against the Bad Things in this way, to find out if we are getting our money's worth. Not yet. But there's hope. There are ways now being developed of foreseeing the consequences of change in a quantitative way, so that one can be stacked up against the others. They may give us refined and useable answers before very long. And until they arrive, we have that cost-accounting system ol evaluating possible futures all of us have been using for some time now, the science-fiction story. For it's still true that the best lens available with which to peer into tomorrow's world Is in science fiction. Sometimes the oracle is a bit hazy in detail, cryptic, hard to understand. But that has been an oracle's privilege since the days of Delphi and Nostradamus. And looking into the tomorrows of these fascinating and eventful todays should keep science-fiction writers pretty busy for some time to come. W e hope to be with you in that capacity from time to time; our real reason for cutting dbwn on editing time is to make a little more space in the day for writing. But we won't be entirely absent in the editorial capacity either. We are going to stick around for a while as Editor Emeritus, which is the rough Latin equivalent for secondguesser, the fellow who looks over the shoulder of the people actually doing the work and criticizes. So thanks -- readers, writers, artists, associates in one capacity or another -- for the best part of a very interesting decade. We've enjoyed it. We hope you have. And we will be looking forward to the decades to come. IF IF  Serial Hardin was the town cop and a good one . But the town was on tour in a foreign land and some of the natives were restless... I N ew Woodstock crossed the Rio Grande at McAllen and passed through the Mexican city of Reynosa. There had been two fairly major sites on the American side of the border with excellent facilities for as many as ten thousand homes apiece but Bat Hardin and the executive committee had checked to find that the next nearest site was at Linares, a full # kilometers to the southwest. They wanted to push on through and avoid the necessity of setting up for the night at some second-class or emergency site where there would be inadequate supply facilities and other short comings. There would be enough of that when they got down into Central America and beyond. New Woodstock was a small town as mobile towns went, and they hadn't the problems of some of the larger communities. The committee had handled all the required border formalities the day before so that there was nothing to hold them up. Bat Hardin leading, as usual, they strung out along the highway, some five hundred homes strong with the auxiliary vehicles spaced periodically between them. Bat rode alone in his converted police vehicle, drawing his moderately sized mobile home behind. He was far from a misogynist but at this junction in his life he had no permanent feminine affiliations and for some reason not quite clear to even himself he desired none. He was a moderately tall man with a military carriage and a habitually worried expression. His hair was crisp, his complexion dark and his features so heavy that he would hardly have been thought of as handsome by average American standards. He had a nervous habit of gnawing on his under lip at the slightest of problems. He wore a khaki semi-uniform. Local police often had a chip on their shoulders in their attitude toward the pseudo-police of the mobile towns, who, after all, had no authority in the areas through which they passed. Law in the mobile towns was largely a voluntary matter; minor infractions could be taken care of in the community but any major matter made it necessary to call in the proper authorities of whatever area the town was in at the time. 'T'his part of Mexico was not  particularly attractive as Bat had known from earlier trips but the site at which they were to stay that evening was at the edge of the mountains and on the banks of a stream. And the following day they should be getting into the Mexico famed in story and song. At the thought of that, Bat Hardin grunted deprecation. The world was becoming one in more than one sense. The larger cities, in particular, such as still existed at feast, were becoming unbelievably aEke. Somehow or other they all seemed to look like Cincinnati. He was hoping that it would be different in South America. A mobile town, like a convoy of ships in wartime, moves at the speed of its slowest member. Atone, Bat Hardin's electro-steamer could easily maintain a steady five hundred kilometers an hour, at least on an automated underground expressway in the States. Even under manual control such as at present, three IF hundred kilometers an hour was quite possible. However, the average home behind him seldom got much above a hundred kilometers an hour especially when traveling in a group. He shrugged that off. He was used to this reduced spel and they were in no hurry. If they wished, they could take a year -- or ten years -- to reach their destination. He grunted at that, too. In actuality, they were rather vague on just what the destination was. What was really on his mind was the sullen quality that he had seemed to detect in some of the border officials. It was nothing he could quite put his finger upon and didn't apply to all of the immigrations and customs people but it was there. And he didn't quite know why. He said into his car phone, "New Woodstock, AI Castro." Al's face faded in. "The rear guard here," he said, yawning. "I'll sure as hell be glad when we get up into the mountains a ways." Bat ignored the complaint of his second. AI Castro was a chronic complainer when things were going fine and never uttered a word of beef when matters were anxious. He was a good man and Bat sometimes wondered at his presence in this community. AI was no more of an artist than Bat was. Bat said, "We'll be turning off in about a half horn:." "Going to stop then for lunch?" "We'll put it to the vote but ## going to recommend no. I'd like to get into Linares before dark. Some of the boys haven't ever driven on these roads before." "Yeah," AI grumbled. "I'll call back to the old lady to whomp me up some sandwiches. Probably wind up with acid stomach." The vote carried and in the early afternoon Bat unwrapped the two sandwiches he'd made himsell earlier and the plastic of beer. When he had finished the beer, he threw the container out the window without compunction. The plastic containers which dissolved in the sun or rain within a week spelled progress with a capital P in Bat Hardin's book. Gone with the snows of yesteryear were the multi-millions of beer and other cans which used to line the roads and clutter up the parks, beaches and resorts of half the world. Hphey were only to spend the one night at the Linares site so they made no particular efforts to arrange themselves in predetermined order, other, of course, than that the administration and other auxiliary vehicles parked in the center of their group. They occupied only about a third of the sitete most favored area and there w ease only half a dozen other mobBe homes. Bat himself parked near the adI P ministration building, noting; that the driver, Milt Waterman, wasn't bothering to set it up but was making his way over to his father's home to rejoin his family. Bat detached his electro-steamer from his home, to have it ready in case of emergency. He parked it, to Wander about on foot on the off chance that he could be of some assistance to someone setting up one of the larger and consequently more awkward homes. Jim Blake, for instance, could usually use an extra hand. Jim might be one of the most prominent artists in New Woodstock but he wasn't mechanically enough minded to wind a clock. Blake, however, had secured the services of one of his neighbors. Ferd Zogbaum, a bachelor, lived in what wfls usually called a camper, a very compact bus-like vehicle that combined the electro-steamer and living quarters very neatly. Ferd was usually on hand to help out when help was called for. A damn good member of the community, Bat had long since decided. Everything seemed to be settled down and Bat Hardin fell in beside Dag Stryn, the guru of the New Temple, and elderly Doc Barnes and headed toward the site's ultra-market. He said to the town's doctor, Doc Barnes said, "She'll be all right, Bat. I haven't the facilities in the clinic to handle her operation but. I'll stop off with her at the first city with an adequate hospital. I have her in stasis for the time being." "She and Phil will have to drop behind?" Bat said, nibbling on his lower lip. "Not necessarily. She can convalesce in the clinic while we're underway." Dag Stryn, a blond Viking of a man but almost unbelievably gentle .in all things, said, "I'm worried oldest, and I'm just wondering if this protracted a trip is the sort of thing they should be doing." "Basically they're both as strong as a couple of horses," Barnes said. "They'll be all right. You can't just sit and die because you've readied your seventies." The doctor must know, Bat thought. He was certainly pushing that age himself. They reached the ultra-market and stood at the end of a short line that had formed. When his turn came, Bat took up a number key and walked on past the display shelves, periodically stopping before an item he wished and touching his key to the impulse device. Aside from tortillas and an inordinate selection of chili peppers, he could have been in an ultra-market in Maine or Oregon. He wasn't, he realized, particularly happy about the fact. It must have been interesting, in the old n days, to be able to witness different cultures, eat exotic foods, sample different drinks, ogle girls attired in saris or sarongs, rather than the now practically universal fashions. TTis selections all made, he re" turned to the delivery counter, put his number key in place and then slipped his pocket phone cum credit card in the appropriate slot. Within moments, his package erupted from the delivery chute and he picked it up and headed for the door. In turning abruptly, he caroomed against a newcomer, one of the community members named Jeff Smith. "Hey, watch yourself, boy," the other snapped. "Sorry," Bat said mildly. Smith grumbled something inarticulately and made off. Bat looked after him for a moment. Jeff Smith was a fiery little man of about thirty-five, fairly recent to New Woodstock. He was supposedly a composer and had a small piano in his unusually large mobile home. Bat occasionally heard rambling music from the Smith quarters but to this point the other had never offered to play any of his compositions or anything else at any of the community entertainments. Bat shrugged and continued on his way. He hoped that Jeff Smith worked out. In a mobile town there was small room for soreheads. You were either a tight community of cooperating fellows or you soon came apart as a town and dispersed to seek better companionship elsewhere. Bat Hardin liked New Woodstock and would hate to see anything happen to it. It was unique as mobile towns went; in fact, to his knowledge, there simply weren't any other mobile art colonies in North America. He left his purchases in his home, decided to postpone his evening meal and walked around the site a bit more, pondering the desirability of teaming together with some of the other singles such as Diana Sward or Ferd Zogbaum and taking turns cooking; not that he knew whether or not the others were any better in a mini-kitchen than he was. Thinking of Diana Sward, he came upon the girl sitting in a folding chair before her mobile home, an easel before her, a palette in hand and a scowl on her face. She was obviously trying to get the colorful mountain peaks to the west on her canvas. She looked up and grimaced. "The damn light is off. This Mexican light is different. You'd think it would be the same as similar countryside up in California, or wherever, but it isn't." Bat said mildly, "How can light be different? Light is light." IF "That shows how much you know about it," she snorted. "Sit down, Bat." Ohe was potentially a very pret ty young woman but made small effort to realize her potentialities. On the few occasions when she bothered to do herself up for some community affair or whatever, she wowed them all, looking surprisingly like a brunette version of the ancient movie star Marilyn Monroe. Now she was attired simply in paint-bespattered shorts and there was a streak of blue down her right cheek where she had obviously touched her brush in an absentminded moment of irritation. She said, "The hell with it," and tossed the brush to the shelf of the easel. "Are you any good, Di?" Bat asked idly. She grunted her disgust. "Not very, but I make a modest living. I have a show or two a year and that usually puts me over the hump. Three or four idiots collect my stuff." He was moderately surprised. "You mean you don't have to call torted. "Besides, I'm not eligible for it." "How do you mean? I thought three quarters of this whole town "But I'm an alien, you know." "We're all aliens in Mexico." "I mean, I'm an alien in the United States. I'm not eligible far the Negative Income Tax. I came over from Common Europe as a youngster. When the Germanies reunited, my mother had to hustle out. Some of the new authorities weren't too happy with the stand she had taken in the old days. My name's actually Diana Von Swifird und Hanse -- very impressive, eh? She was a Grafin." "A what?" "Something like a countess from way back in the Kaiser's day. She was also on the chauvanistk side and didn't want to become an American. Since she seemingly had all the money she, and I, would need she didn't become a citizen. By the time she lost her capital -- mother was an ass with money -- it wasn't as easy as all that to become an American. With the adin the world would have become citizens if the government would have allowed it." She changed the subject Bat, what in hell are you doing in New Woodstock?" He shrugged. "In any mobile town, even an art colony, you need other than artists, writers, mamdans, sculptors and the rest You need, for instance, a cop or two." "Sure, but I mean, what do you get out of it. There is no pay with your position. Like you said, Tie said slowly, "I'm not by nature a loafer. Besides, I feel a need to identify, I suppose you'd call it. Be part of the community. I want to do my share..." "Well, a mobile art colony is a sort of a strange place to have that drive." "No it isn't." He looked at her from the side of his eyes. "I'm a cop, for free. Some of the others who don't spend full time at their art act in helping on repairs, as car mechanics, teachers or whatever. For instance, why do you teach art classes to the kids three times a week?" "Touche," she snorted. "But what I meant was, if you're ambitious to work and don't want to be a loafer, why do you stay in a community like this? Why not get yourself a job up in the States?" "Di, old girl, we have a new socioeconomic system in our America. Today such labels as democracy, capitalism, free enterprise and such, are passe. We have Meritocracy." "All right," she said. "Drop the other shoe. So what's Meritocracy got to do with you?" "Just this. The majority of our population is unneeded in our socioeconomic system. What John Kenneth Galbraith, the old economist, once called the Technostructure -- in short, management -- has become for all practical purposes the entire working population. Practically everybody who works is part of management: from scientists, through engineers to technicians. The blue-collar worker is an anachronism. Happily -- I guess -- by this time production is at such a scale that the unneeded are not forced into starvation. Simultaneously with the advent of Meritocracy came the movement toward Guaranteed Annual Income, the Negative Income Tax and other floors beneath the income of every family in the country, employed usefully or not. In short, the dole." Diana Sward said, "Damn it, stop lecturing me largely about things I already know. What's this got to do with you not being a loafer, not going up and getting yourself a job?" He nodded, bitterly. "There's not enough work to go around, Di. And that which is available requires both I.Q. and education. You need both. I.Q. without education is, of course, worthless, but you need the I.Q. to get the education -- in the schools that count at least. I've never seen figures but I suspect that the average person who works today in American industry has an I.Q. of something like #. The number that have an I.Q. of a hundred or less must be infinitesimal. "Di, when you apply to enter a university, or, even if you get over IF that hump and graduate, when you apply for a position With any corporation in the nation, the first thing they do is check your dossier in the National Data Banks. And shortly after your name and identity number is your good old Intelligence Quotient which they've been testing periodically ever since you entered kindergarden. When a fraction of the population can hold down all the jobs needed, why should any corporation in its right mind hire somebody with an I.Q. of less than #?" "What in the name of God has that got to do with you?" "IVe got an I.Q. of #, Di." II Qhe stared at him. "Don't be  ridiculous. Why, you've been lecturing me like a professor of economics since I first met you." He made a face of deprecation. "Don't confuse learning with intelligence, Di. I didn't have much formal schooling. In fact, practically none at all. When I was a kid we still had the ghettos and slums and my family was as lower class as you could get. But during the Asian War I copped one and was in the hospital for quite a spell. I learned to read there. No, I mean literally. Before that I couldn't do much more than read comic books and sign my own name. I became a compulsive reader, an inveterate reader I suppose you ooB it I spend all my free time reading." "Well, that shows you're really intelligent." "No it doesn't," he said doggedly. "All it shows is that I'm a compulsive reader. You can be stewish as far as intelligence is concerned and still do a lot of reading You even learn the twenty dollar words, but you mustn't kid yourself, it doesn't make you any smarter. If your I.Q. is #, it's still #. And in the Meritocracy it's exposed. There is no room for the stupid." She tightened her mouth in rejection. "How do you know your I.Q. is #?" He chuckled wryly. "When I first entered the army I worked for awhile in records. I sneaked a look at my induction examinations. By the way, what's yours?" She made a gesture of shivering. "I've never tried to find out" "I don't blame you," he laughed. "Sometimes, I'm sorry that curiosity ever hit me in the army. I'd be happier if I didn't know." She leaned forward. "But look, Bat, there are fields in which I.Q. doesn't particularly enter. The arts, for instance. Some of the great artists of the world were lamebrains. Sorry, I shouldn't have said that." He spread his hands in a gesture of submission. "Yeah, but I haven't any particular aptitude for any of the arts. Believe me, I've messed around in them." "But there are other fields..." "Sure, and IVe held down jobs in some. I used to curry horses for one of the big mucky-mucks in Kentucky, down where one of my ancestors was a slave. But I don't like being a servant." "In a way, you're a servant now, a public servant." "All right. But, here in New Woodstock I'm an honored member of the community. With a few exceptions, possibly, I'm welcome in everybody's home. I get invited to the parties, I'm often brought in for lunch or dinner. Hell, the Robertsons named their new baby after me." She stared at him in frustration. He said doggedly, "Here I belong. Here I'm wanted. Here I can be of use. The Meritocracy doesn't need me and I refuse to sit around in the new America collecting my anything of value to society. I don't like charity." He shrugged, once again in selfdeprecation. "In the world as it is there is no other way to survive. Theoretically, perhaps, I could go off somewhere and be a hermit. But that's theory. Man's a social animal and can't divorce himself completely from society." J eff Smith, who seemed to be listing slightly to starboard, passed by them, heading back to his home from the direction of the site's cantina . He stared at them, his eyes particularly going over Diana Sward's semi-nudity. There was an element of sneer in his voice when he slurred, "Yawl having a good time?" He had passed before either of them could think of anything to say. Bat chuckled. "I think Jeff sports the last of the southern accents. He's trying single-handedly to maintain the old provincialism. And what's that chip on his shoulder, anyway?" "He invited me to have a drink a little earlier," Di said distastefully. "I turned him down." Ferd Zogbaum came up, a scowl on his face. A scowl wasn't normal on Ferd. He was an easy-going, generous type, about thirty, pushing six feet and a hundred and sixty pounds. He was as nearly universally liked by everybody in New Woodstock as is possible to be liked without being completely wishy-washy. They exchanged amenities, and Di suggested he get himself a chair. She stood. "I think I'd better put on some more clothes, it's cooling off." Ferd said to Bat, "Could I talk to you a minute?" His tone indicated that he meant alone. "Sure. Why not?" Bat said, coming to his feet. "Let's go over to my place. See you later, Di. IF Bat and Ferd sauntered along easily. It was the time day Bat liked best in the mobile art colony. Two of the younger set, known to be considering marriage, went by slowly, hand in hand. Off in the distance, a guitar, poorly played, was starting up a folk song. The kids were beginning to emerge from their homes; a ball game was shaping up. There weren't many children in New Woodstock, slightly over a hundred, but their presence added a needed something, even to an art colony. Bat said to Ferd, in the way of make-conversation, "Getting any work done?" Ferd said, "Some people might work from sun to sun, but a writer's work is never done." Bat looked at him from the side of his eyes. "Oh? You don't seem to be wearing yourself to a frazzle." "I'm working right this very minute," Ferd said, in put-on protest. "One of these days I'll do an article about you. How's this for a title, Last of the Neighborhood Cops?" "It'll never sell. Do you place much of your stuff, Ferd?" "Some. Not enough to negate my somebody who's trying to break into the arts the opportunity to survive while he's learning the tools of his trade. "No more starving in garrets." B at's mobile home consisted of a fairly large living room, a mini-kitchen, a bath and a bedroom. In the tradition of house trailers, since their inception, everything was compactly efficient: refrigerator, automatic bar, electronic stove, TV screen, tucked away here and there with a minimum expenditure of space. Ferd slumped into an easy chair and Bat went over to to bar. "What'll you have?" he said. "It's been a hot day, how about a Cuba Libra?" "Sounds good to me," Bat said, dialing the rum and coke and a dash of lime juice. He paused a brief moment,  then opened the compartment and brought forth two long, chill plastic glasses. He handed one to Ferd and look a chair himself. Bat said, "What was k you wanted to see me about, Ferd? Ferd's face worked unhappily for a moment before he answered. "I don't know exactly how to put it, Bat, but something's wrong.' Bat looked at him. Ferd said, "I can't put my linger on it. It's kind of intuitive. But, for one thing, where are to local people?" "How do you mean?" Bat said, scowling. He had run into this intuitive feeling of Ferd Zogbaum's before. The other hadn't been with New Woodstock very long but on two occasions he had come up with this intuitive feeling, or whatever it was, and had been astonishingly accurate. Now Ferd said stubbornly, "The last time I was in Mexico, about five years ago, the locals used to hang around a site when a group of American homes came through. Some were there just to gawk, but some had souvenirs and such to sell. Where are they this time?" Bat scowled again. "Damn if I know. Possibly so many Americans have been coming through that we're no longer a novelty." "That wouldn't apply to peddlers, or beggars. It wouldn't even apply to kids. Kids never get tired of gaping at strangers and different ways of doing things." Bat thought about it, biting his lower lip. He said slowly, "Did you notice at the border this morning a, well, kind of a sullen quality about some of the authorities?" "As a matter of fact, I did. We had all of our papers, permission to enter and all but I got a distinct feeling that most of them hated to see us pass." Bat said suddenly, "Look, what do you say we go into town this evening after we eat? Take a look around." Ferd came to his feet, pulled out his pocket phone and dialed the time. "Okay," he said. "I've got to get back over to Di's now." After Ferd Zogbaum had gone, Bat went into his mini-kitchen, opened the refrigerator-freezer and scowled in at the purchases he had made earlier. He wasn't particularly hungry after the heat of the day. Tn honor of their first stop in Mexico, he brought forth a container-dish of chili con carne and placed it in the electronic heater and gloomily watched as the container top melted, becoming part of the prepared contents. The chili con carne heated but the dish remained at room temperature and Bat took the food over to the small table in the living room. From a cabinet he brought forth a box of utensils, some crackers and another plastic of beer and sat down to eat. He wasn't going to need the knife with this meal so he ate it along with the chili. When he had finished, he ate the plate and the spoon and fork and went back to his favorite chair to wait for Ferd Zogbaum. He considered dialing himself an afterdinner drink but decided not to. He had no idea of what they might run into in Linares and didn't want to be even slightly befuddled. He reached up for a book from his shelves and sat again. Bat Hardin was getting fully emersed in the work when Ferd Zogbaum's knock came at the door. He gave a grunt of displeasure, marked his page and got up. IF Ferd's camper was on the slow and awkward side, comparatively, so Bat suggested they take his electro-steamer. Linares proper was about a kilometer down the road and it took them only minutes to arrive. The town of Linares boasted a small population of approximately # and had little call to fame. The area was not particularly suited to farming, mining nor, certainly, industry and since its scenic attractions were only moderate tourism was also a matter of little gain. Thus it was that the community had participated hardly at all in the growth of Mexico proper such as was to be seen in the progressive cities of Monterrey, Guadalajara, Vera Cruz and above all Mexico City itself. In fact, Linares remained a town of yesteryear, a sleepy, dull and at this time of the year, at least, dusty backwash to the days of Pancho Villa. The main highway, leading west and further on, south, compounded insult to injury by avoiding Linares proper. Bat and Ferd had to take a side street to the village zocco or plaza, the center about which every Mexican hamlet, village or city revolves. It differed not at all, except possibly being amongst the least picturesque in all the Republic, from the norm. There was a park, a bandstand in its center, iron benches about the perimeter, patches of sad flowers spotted here mid there. A score of trees provided perching for multitudes of Boat-tailed Grackles which evidently had no respect for weary townsmen slumped below on the benches. There were few cars parked about the square, and those that were there were more often oldfashioned internal combustion engines, rather than steamers or the more recent electro-steamers. Evidently pollution laws had never been enforced in Mexico. In fact, of wheeled yehicles there were more beaten up trucks and buses than private cars. Bat Hardin parked the electrosteamer in front of a bar and got out, Ferd doing the same on the other side. 'T'hree or four indolent villagers, leani ng up against wall or lamppost, seemed to take displeasure when Bat locked the car doors. He wondered idly if it was because they were thwarted in going through the vehicle, or if they were objecting to his suggesting that it might be done if he failed to lock up. Come to think of it, Bat recalled that in these small towns the crime rate in Mexico was said to be infinitesimal, though it could be different in the larger, more sophisticated cities. Ferd led the way. If the town as a whole had reminded them of a movie set based on the Mexican revolution of #, there was little in the interior that would indicate the bar wasn't a continuation of the set. The room was long, the walls decorated with bullfight posters and illustrations of bountifully bosomed women. There was a brassrail along the bottom of the bar and a tile trough with running water for those who must needs expectorate. At the far end of the bar, along the whole wall which faced the door was a tile urinal which could easily have accommodated half a dozen beer discomfited customers at a time. There was a stench of stale urine in the air, along with that of unwashed bodies. There were perhaps twenty imbibers present, leaning on the prehistoric bar. Behind were three bartenders; one, a fifty-year-old pushing three hundred pounds in weight, was obviously the proprietor; the other two were youngsters in their teens. The liquor selection was limited; tequila, mescal, rum and gin. A battered refrigerator indicated that at least the beer and coke would be cold. Ferd muttered from the side of his mouth, even as they found a place, "Montezuma drank here." "Or at least, Cortez," Bat muttered back. A silence had failed upon their entry. The two Americans ignored it. The proprietor, who puffed slightly upon movement, hesitated for a long moment but finally came down to them, ignoring some of the cold stares of his habitufe. He stood before them, both obscenely fat hands on the bar, and said expressionlessly, "Senors?" "Tequila, por favor," Bat said. He nodded, turned and secured a bottle of the white liquid midear bomb, a saucer of limes cut into quarters and a shaker of salt Both Bat and Ferd had been in the country before and knew the routine. They poured themselves drinks that would have been called triples in the States, took the salt and sprinkled a touch of it on the back of their left hands. They touched their tongues to the salt, took up and tossed the tequila back over their tonsils in one fell swoop, then grabbed up a quarter of the lime and bit into it. "Wow!" Ferd said, half in appreciation, half in objection to the strength of the fiery product of the maguey plant. The Mexican standing nearest to them and at Bat's left, sneered and said in passable English, "Ah, not enough macho for tequila, eh, Gringo?" Ill TT'erd hesitated for a moment.  Finally, he said to Bat, "Well, we came here to learn. What does macho mean?" IF Bat said quietly, "Manliness, more or less. The quality of being a real man." He was nibbling unhappily at his lower lip. "And Gringo?" "It's a derogatory word for an American. When the American troops invaded from Texas and Vera Cruz one of the popular songs of the day was Robert Burns' Green Grow the Rushes, Oh, and the Americans sang it as a marching tunfc. The Mexicans of the time took the first two words and called the unwelcome invaders Green Grows or Gringos." "Thanks for the lecture," Ferd said politely. He turned to the Mexican. "And you're just a greaser." "Holy Smokes..." Bat began in protest... much too late. The Mexican, although a small man by the standards of either of the two foreigners, pushed Bat Hardin to the side with a sweep of his right arm. He moved in fast, so fast that he should have been upon Ferd before that worthy could erect defenses. However, the American was prepared. Ferd went backward in the one, two, three shuffle of the trained pugilist, his hands coming up in fists. The Mexican was ardent but fighting out of his class as well as weight, height and reach. He swung once, twice, wildly. And then Ferd Zogbaum stepped in with a classic feint of the left and a crushing blow into the other's stomach with his right. Bat Hardin, meanwhile, had turned to meet the rush of the other occupants of the bar. Unlike his companion, he adopted a crouching stance, his hands slightly forward and held as choppers, rather than fists. He had not spent his long years in the Asian War without compiling background in hand to hand combat. The very number of the others, in the confined space of the cantina, was their handicap. That and the fact that the locals had been knocking back the Mexican equivalent of the product of the vine considerably before the arrival of the strangers. They had fully the spirit of the thing but precious little science. While his companion was finishing off his attacker, Bat was able to hold them, although he was being pushed back slowly by sheer weight. Ferd yelled, "Let's get out of here, Bat!" But Bat was nearly eliminated from the fray at this point by an attack on his flank. The bartender, something that looked like a child's baseball bat in one of his fat paws, leaned over the bar and took a massive swing at the embattled American. Bat caught the motion from the side of his eyes and tried to swing out of the blow but only partially succeeded. For a moment the fog seemed to roll in when the bludgeon struck him glancingly on the side of his head. Ferd caught him, supported him just long enough for the other to shake his head in an attempt to clear it. Swinging almost as wildly as the charging locals now, the two shuffled backward toward the swinging doors. "I'll try to hold them," Ferd yelled. "Get the car door openl" Tt was the obvious strategy. Bat  turned quickly and made a dash for it. In the street, he straightarmed one of the loungers who had been outside and who was now coming up on the run, obviously attracted by the sounds of the battle. Another was coming from the opposite direction, a smallish youngster probably not out of his teens. However, Bat Hardin had neither time nor patience for compassion. He slugged the younger man in the face, putting him down, and tore his car keys from his pocket. He fumbled at the door's lock and felt a body hit him from the rear. Somebody threw arms about him. He reached back, snagged an arm and threw the other brutally over his shoulder in the old wrestler's favorite hold, the Flying Mare. Ferd Zogbaum erupted from the cantina and slammed the doors back into the faces of the enraged enemy. The car door was open. Bat Hardin darted in and snaked across the seat to the driver's position. Ferd was still holding the rapidly emerging local citizens, his arms swinging like windmills. Bat Hardin reached out and grabbed him by the belt and pulled him bodily inside in a sprawl. The car began to move forward. Bat deliberately held down his speed so as not to seriously harm the two or three of the enemy who were immediately ahead, trying to stop him. They scurried to either side as he slowly sped up. Ferd had finally managed to sit erect and now slammed shut the still open door on his side. "Fun and games!" he yelped. "Get us the hell out of here, Bat. If any of those jokers are heeled, we've had it." Bat growled, "This is a police car. They'd have to have anti-tank guns." They were back on the main road leading out of town and to the site where New Woodstock was parked. "Armored, eh?" Ferd said and then, "Hey, you've got a nasty cut on your head." He pulled forth a handkerchief and handed it over, then put a hand to his own head and groaned. Bat Hardin was driving with one hand and holding the handkerchief to the cut. "What's the matter?" he asked. "Splitting headache," Ferd muttered. "I always get them, if I get into a fight." "Damn it," Bat said bitterly. "I always thought of you as an easy going character. What the hell was the idea of calling that guy a greaser?" Ferd groaned, still holding his head. "Listen, we had no more chance of getting out of that joint without a scrap than we have of flying without wings. Couldn't you feel that in the air when we walked in? I just precipitated it before they got organized -- thank God." "More of your feminine intuition?" Bat said in disgust. He dabbed at his head and looked at the handkerchief. He was bleeding profusely. "I'll have to take this to Doc," he growled. They were approaching the site. Ferd looked over his shoulder. "None of them coming -- yet." "They won't come," Bat said, still in disgust. "There weren't more than twenty or so of them, most tight. If we stuck around here for any length of time at all, they might stir up enough of the other townspeople to help them give us a hard time, but as of right now they'd be outnumbered. I suspect that the local cops, at this moment, are cooling them." He pulled up before the colony's clinic. D oc Barnes was sitting in a folding chair out front talking to his nurse who was also relaxed in the cool of the evening. Ferd muttered, "This head is place. See you later, Bat." He stumbled from the vehicle, head still in hands, and staggered away. Bat didn't bother to answer. He got out of the electro-steamer on his side and started over to the colony physician. Doc Barnes looked startled and came to his feet. "What in the world's happened? Miss Stevens!" Barbara Stevens hustled to her own feet and held open the door to the colony hospital. Bat headed into the interior saying, "Ferd Zogbaum and I went into town and got into trouble at a bar. " Doc Barnes, following him, said grumpily, "I wouldn't think either of you were the types to get into barroom brawls. Here, let me look at that." Bat said, "They were laying for us, Doc. Haven't you noticed the atmosphere?" "I can't say that I have. Hold still." "Well, we're evidently not as popular around here as we might be." The veteran doctor moved briskly, staunched the blood flow, treated the cut, closed it and placed a layer of pseudo-flesh over the wound. "There you are," he said. "It'll be healed in a few days." IF "No stitches necessary ?" Bat said. "We don't use them for that sort of thing any more," the older man said. "You going to see Dean about this?" Bat turned to leave. "I suppose so. I'll have to. Thanks, Doc." His eyes swept the mobile clinic. When on the road, it moved in two sections drawn by two heavy electrosteamers. When parked, and set up, it consisted of two floors, sporting twelve compartments in all including Doc Barnes' living quarters. Bat said, "You know, this is the first time I've seen your set-up from the inside. It's impressive." Doc Barnes said, "You can thank Dean Armanruder and Jim Blake for that. They split the cost fiftyfifty and donated it to the colony." Bat Hardin said, "Why did they donate this outfit? It must have cost a fortune." "Contrary to some opinion, these mobile towns are not necessarily Barnes said. "Some people, even well to do people, prefer to live this way. An art colony such as this will attract men like Armanruder and Blake because of the companionship." "That still doesn't answer my question." D oc Barnes said impatiently, "They donated it shortly before you joined New Woodstock because I told them I wouldn't take the position unless we had better facilities than were provided at that time." Bat scowled. "What position? I thought you volunteered your services." "I did. I'm retired and have all the income I need. Sort of an old workhorse that hates to be out of harness. I saw an advertisement in one of the magazines devoted to mobile town life for a doctor and answered it. New Woodstock's doctor had passed away. Armanruder and Blake liked my qualifications and for the sake of their own selves and family members ponied up the necessary loot if I'd stay." "Damn nice of them." Doc shifted his thin shoulders. "You need a competent M.D. in a mobile town. It wasn't completely altruistic on their parts." Bat said, "Well, if you wanted to remain in practice, why didn't you stay on up north?" The doctor said testily, "Because I'm outdated. In medicine today you become outdated about every five years. Normally, a competent physician will return to school every five years and spend one or two years catching up on the latest advances. I've got to the age where it's too difficult to keep up. Besides, I like this life. I'm not so confoundedly senile that I don't appreciate a change of scene, open air life, the beach or lakeside in the summer, a southern climate in the winter." Bat was beginning to feel better but he was in no hurry to go. He liked old Doc Barnes and suspected that the other had been a top man of his field in his day. He said, "Were all the other auxiliary buildings acquired the same way?" Doc looked at him. "You should know, you've lived in mobile towns before, haven't you?" "They sometimes differ in how they're composed," Bat said. "The only other one I've lived In was even smaller than this and specialized in archeology. There were precious few auxiliaries, and those largely inadequate, except for the mobile museum." T he doctor shrugged. "As far as the auxiliaries are concerned, some, such as the ad building and the school, were bought by popular subscription when the town first organized some years ago. Others are privately owned. Sam Prager's TV and electronic repairshop, for instance. Evidently, Sam had always loved to tinker. When his job was automated out from under him, he and his wife Edith took what resources they had and made a down payment on a mobile home and equipped one room as a repair shop." "I wondered why Sam joined New Woodstock," Bat said. "You'd think he'd look up some town that had a lot of members with similar interests in fiddling around with electronics." "Edith writes. Poetry, I believe. She's on the striving intellectual side. Answer the question yourself, Bat. Why has a healthy, comparatively young fellow like you retired to a life in New Woodstock?" Bat told him. The doctor was irritated. "The word intelligence has its elastic qualities," he said. "Anyhow, one test isn't enough, though the tests we use now are considerably more efficient than they used to be. However the I.Q. tests largely measure the speed of your thinking, not necessarily its quality." "How do you mean?" The testy old man said, "See here, suppose you were shipwrecked on a deserted island. Who would you rather have as a companion, a computer programmer with an I.Q. of # -- gifted, in short -- or a chappie with an I.Q. of #, slightly above average, who was a professional fisherman and spent his vacations in hunting, hiking and skin diving?" Bat said dryly, "These days, you're not apt to be shipwrecked. And under the Meritocracy high I.Q. is the criteria that counts." "All right," Barnes said. "Possibly you know more about it than I do. But you're building up one grand inferiority complex." IF Bat Hardin turned to leave. He said, "It's not an inferiority com plex, Doc. I am inferior." TJefore going to the mobile mansion which was the home of Dean Armanruder, Bat Hardin headed for the considerably less ostentatious home of his deputy AI Castro. On the way he passed the camper of Ferd Zogbaum and considered, momentarily, sticking his head inside and inquiring about the other's headache. It was a strange thing, that headache. What had Ferd said? That every time he got into a fight the headache hit him. He approached the camper but then drew himself up. Through one of the windows he could see Ferd sitting at his tiny desk talking earnestly into a TV phone. There was an anxious look on his face, one of strain, although he was seemingly trying to control that element of his expression. Bat shrugged and moved on. Since it seemed unlikely that the freelance writer had any contacts here in Mexico, he must have been communicating with someone back in the States and the conversation was evidently of more than passing interest. Bat shrugged again. For all he knew, Ferd was querying some editor about an article. Possibly the strained element was there because he needed the money. But why should Ferd Zogbaum particularly need money? He was a single felcould go all year without selling any of his pieces, and never be really up against it, particularly since mobile town life was comparatively cheap and Mexico, in particular, considerably less expensive was enough that anyone on it could live-it-up in Mexico or some of the other Latin American countries to the south. And more and more people were discovering the fact every day as witness the exodus of mobile towns and cities southward. AI Castro's home was approximately the size of Bat's own but since he lived with his well larded wife, Pamela, the space was really less than he could have wished for. The place was lighted up but the curtains drawn. Bat rang the bell. AI came, yawning as ever, and opened up. "Hi Bat, what's on? Come on in, have a drink." Pamela Castro was sitting at the small dining room table, a tall frosted glass there and a wilted look about her. She was an objectionably fat woman, and Bat had never particularly got along with her. She couldn't see any reason for her husband donating his time as Bat's deputy when he received no compensation. Theoretically she was a water colorist but in actuality she spent precious little time working at it. Bat said, "No thanks. I just had a drink and got knocked for a loop." "They got strong liquor down here, all right," AI nodded. "But it tastes like turpentine. Take the tobacco stain right off your teeth. I'll stick to State-side grog." "It wasn't the liquor," Bat said wryly. "It was the bartender. He slugged me with a baseball bat." AI Castro stared at him. "What 're you talking about?" Bat told him what had happened. "I'm heading over to see Armanruder. But whatever he says, I think we'd better post a guard tonight. Why don't you round up a couple of the emergency deputies, say Jake Benton's boy, Tom, and Luke Robertson? We'll share watches, four hours on, four hours off." "Heavens to Betsy," Pamela complained in a half whine. "Is this getting to be an all day, all night thing? What do you get out of it, up and down all night? You'll be too tired to drive tomorrow." AI didn't answer her. He turned back to Bat. "Okay, I'll run over and get Tom and Luke." Tat made his way across the " center area to where Dean Armanruder was set up not far from the mobile administration building. The senior member of the executive committee this week had by far the most luxurious mobile home in New Woodstock. His threesection establishment was a far cry from the little original trailer homes. Six vehicles in all were involved, three mobile homes which folded quite compactly while underway and three heavy electrosteamers which drew them. Two of the homes were joined on setting up to make the quarters which Dean Armanruder and his secretary occupied; the third home, considerably the smallest, was parked nearby for Manuel Chauvez and his wife, the only two servants in New Woodstock. Bat Hardin was on friendly enough terms with the retired corporation manager but found no real warmth in the man. In theory, Dean Armanruder dabbled in painting but in actuality such real professionals as Diana Sward had to repress their shudders if they were unlucky enough to see his latest product. Armanruder was a phenomenon that has been known to the art colony down through the ages, the outsider who loves to associate with Bohemians -- whatever a Bohemian is, Bat thought sourly. The Armanruder home was one of the few in New Woodstock that boasted an identity screen in the door. Bat activated it and stood there waiting for the door to open. It did, and Armanruder's voice IF came through the screen at the same moment. "Come in, Hardin. Good evening. We're here in the salon." "Good evening," Bat said and made his way down the short corridor to where Dean Armanruder and his secretary, Nadine Paskov, were relaxing before the TV screen which was built into the end wall of the room, taking up most of it. When set up, the mobile mansion had a second floor which telescoped down into the bottom one when underway. The top floor was devoted to sleeping quarters, dressing rooms, closets and baths and Bat had never seen it. The ground floor was living quarters, library, dining room, a surprisingly extensive kitchen for a mobile home, storage space, a large office and a smaller one for Miss Paskov. Nadine Paskov was really a secretary though some snide elements in the colony prefered to doubt that. She also obviously doubled as Dean Armanruder's mistress and was undoubtedly the most beautifully groomed woman in town unless Diana Sward held that honor. Dean Armanruder touched a control of the arm of his overgrown chair and the lights went up sufficiently for them to see each other more easily. "Sit down, Hardin," he said. "Could I have Manuel bring you a drink?" He touched another control. 'T'hat was the Armanruder style. Not for him an automatic bar nor even an old-fashioned one which he would have to operate himself. Cool it, cool it, Bat told himself. What business of his was it? Armanruder had earned his comforts. You didn't become manager of a corporation these days because your father owned most of the stock. The wealthy might inherit a concern nowadays but few were foolish enough to attempt to operate it themselves. He took the chair proffered but said, "No thanks. I'm going to be up half the night, and a drink would probably make me that much more groggy." He nodded to Nadine Paskov, ever the beauty queen, who looked as though she was bored by his arrival. "Good evening, Miss Paskov." "Hi Bat," she said, finishing the drink in her cocktail glass. Manuel entered but for the moment Dean Armanruder ignored him. The small, dark-complexioned servant wore a white jacket now. During the day, while driving one of the Armanruder units, he wore a dark suit and a chauffeur's cap. Armanruder said to Bat, "How do you mean, you'll be up tonight?" Bat told him the day's developments and the older man was obviously disturbed. "Why in the world did you two go into town?" "I told you that. We sensed a sullen quality and wanted to check up on it. We certainly weren't looking for trouble and would have avoided it if we could." "I suppose so," the other said, then looked at his butler cum chauffeur. "Two more of the same for Miss Paskov and me, Manuel. Mr. Hardin isn't drinking." "Yes sir." The Spanish American tinned to go. If Bat had it correctly, Manuel and his wife, Concha, had come from New Mexico or Arizona. Their Spanish would be invaluable on this town move to South America. Bat looked after the slightly built servant and must have had an element of questioning in his face. D ean Armanruder misunderstood it. He said, "You're wondering why Manuel would take a job like this in these days of few indeed in the States any more. Only the truly wealthy can afford them. But it's not that with Manuel and Concha; I pay them little more than they would get in the "Oh? I was under the impression he was an American citizen." Armanruder chuckled again. "Yes. But not all citizens are eliManuel was caught at falsifying his income tax. He and his wife working on the side to augment their fortunes. Very, very bad. When the computers check you out and catch you, you're no longer eligible for Negative Income Tax and in this day and age of unemployment you have your work cut out finding a position." Bat said, "Actually, that wasn't what I was thinking, though. The thought went through my mind, there but for luck go you or I." Nadine Paskov said in bored impatience, "Oh, good heavens." Armanruder shook his head. "Speak for yourself, perhaps, Hardin, but not for me. Luck is not involved. Manuel Chauvez and I come from different strata in society. It was fated that he occupy his position and I, mine. At his birth he was slated to be a servant or the equivalent, I to be among the top one percent of our system." He settled back into his chair, made a dome of his fingers and his tone became slightly pompous. "Under the Meritocracy you seek and reach your level. It's a system that fits the human race because it's one that is stratified, because people are. It's highly disciplined, because the universe is. It's a society in which individuals can freely move from one level to another but only by their own abilities. Nothing counts except your own individual achievements." IF Nadine Paskov finished her drink and tapped the back of her hand to her month. Bat had a few arguments in mind but he stood and said, "I should be getting on my rounds." He added wryly, "I suppose the manner in which we do the little governing that is needed in these mobile towns is the last of the old time democracy." Armanruder chuckled. "Yes. And do you see who our fellow townsmen elect to the executive committee? We who, before retirement, were most successful in our positions in society. You don't find men like your impetuous friend Zogbaum on the executive committee." As Bat Hardin walked back to  his own home, with the intention of getting a few hours sleep before relieving AI Castro, he muttered, "No. And you don't see me on the executive committee, either." It came to him that high intelligence wasn't the only requirement to get to the top in his each-manfor himself and the devil take the hindmost world. You had to have the push and aggression of a Dean Armanruder. You had to have the desire for power. When Armanruder had first come to the mobile art colony, he had begun operating, volunteering his services, taking over responsibiiities. Most of the town's members did a minimum of participating in its required community work. Oh, there were few complete shirkers too taken up with his art work, his family, the maintenance of his mobile home to find time for lengthy committee meetings, the handling of accounts, the making of decisions involving the community. Within a month, Dean Armanruder had been elected to the executive committee and within two months was dominating it Bat relieved AI Castro at ten o'clock and patrolled the town with Luke Robertson, a tall, lanky, slow moving fellow who did sculpturing in iron and who seemed to have an inordinate affection for Bat Hardin, as did his wife, for that matter. Bat wasn't quite sure why. But when somebody likes you, for whatever reason, you have a tendency to like him in return. In actuality, Bat had to admit that he didn't appreciate Luke's work; in fact, it was exactly the sort of abstract, meaningless -- to Bat Hardin -- sort of thing that he actively disliked. Bat's tastes went to the representational art forms; even free verse left him with a taste in his mouth. Of course, he had never mentioned that to Luke Robertson. AI Castro and young Tom Benton had reported their four-hour watch uneventful. They had immediately taken off for their respective homes upon the approach of Bat and Luke. And the hours between ten and two were equally free of any signs of disgruntled locals. In fact, Bat was beginning to wonder if the whole idea of posting a guard hadn't been somewhat ridiculous. He was undoubtedly exaggerating the event in Linares. A bunch of drunks had lit into him and Ferd Zogbaum. So what? It didn't mean that a mob was going to descend on New Woodstock. At two, AI and Tom came back, AI looking as though in the midst of the self-same yawn he'd had four hours earlier. Bat returned to his mobile home, slept four hours more and came back for the final shift at six. It was unnecessary. At this time of the year, it was dawn and early risers in New Woodstock were already up and around. On the way back to his place, more sleep in mind, he passed Diana Sward, once again seated at her easel and. once again scowling at the mountains beyond. Bat looked over her shoulder for a moment at her efforts. "You'll never make it," he said, shaking his head. "Shut up. Good morning, Bat. When do we roll?" "I wouldn't know. I'm in favor of getting out of here but I imagine it will be ten o'clock or so, as usual." Something was there that he didn't like. He couldn't put his finger on it. Maybe he was associating with Ferd Zogbaum too much. Ferd and his intuitions. Maybe they were rubbing off on him. But he had the something-is-bad feeling. T Te went back into his home,  opened a drawer and stared down at the Gyro-jet pistol there in its shoulder harness. He took a deep breath, took it out, took off his j'acket, shrugged into the harness, put his jacket back on and left the home again. He got into the electro-steamer and dialed a map of the local road system on his TV phone screen. He traced their route for the day, with a finger. The next stretch was #S kilometers and led largely through the mountains. At the end of the stretch they would j'oin the Pan American Highway about # kilometers south of the city of Saltillo. The Pan American Highway was well patrolled, had ample sites strung along it and endless powerpack outlets and stations for fuel cells for those who used them. He would feel happier when they were upon it. As it was, this stretch between Linares and the little town of San Roberto was going to be the most remote that they would travel over in Mexico. He made a sudden decision, checked his power packs which he IF had charged during the night, activated the car and started up. He picked up his phone and said, "New Woodstock, Dean Armanruder." But it was Nadine Paskov's face which faded into the screen. She was obviously in bed and for once the glamorous secretary was less than her best. She looked at him sleepily and indignantly and said, "What in the damn world do you want at this time of the night?" Bat said mildly, "Sorry. I wanted to let Mr. Armanruder know I was going to take a quick scout along the route we're taking today. I assume that I'll be back before the town takes off. If not, I'll rejoin along the route." She muttered something and flicked off. It wasn't necessary to enter Linares proper to continue on along the highway, for which Bat Hardin was thankful, although he rather doubted the town would be awake this early. Mexicans are seldom early risers as he had found out from his previous visits. Perhaps it went back to the old days when they were without means of heating their homes and remained in bed until the sun had warmed up the world. He drove along Route E-#, the road rather rapidly ascending. It was considerably more beautiful a drive than had been the day before with its flatness of countryside; however, Bat Hardin wasn't particularly observant of scenic values. He still had his premonition and chewed away at his heavy lower lip as he rode. There didn't truly seem to be anything untoward. T'hey nailed him about five kilometers before he reached the tiny hamlet of Iturbide and about fifty kilometers out of Linares. There was a road block of three cars, only one of which was a steamer and it is an old-fashioned kerosene burner, by the looks of it Four men, two of them in uniform which Bat didn't place and all of them armed, stood before the road block. Bat came to a halt and activated the window. One of the civilian-dressed of the four came over and said, "Senor Hardin? Come out, please." His English was at least as good as Bat's own. Bat opened the door and came forth, scowling. He said, "How did you know my name?" His eyes went over them. The alleged uniforms were obviously make-shift. He snapped, "You're not police!" His hand shot for his snoulder holster. Bat Hardin was not slow at the draw but the Mexican was a blur. His own pistol was out and trained on the American's stomach. He said softly, "Move much more slowly, Senor Hardin, and give me that for which you were reaching. So. You carry a gun here in Mexico. To shoot Mexicans with, undoubtedly." Bat brought forth the gun and handed it over. He said, "I have a permit issued by your border authorities. Our town is going all the way down. At least to Peru. Undoubtedly, we'll go through some fairly wild country in places Hk Columbia and Ecuador. So we have various guns. They weren't meant to be used against the citizens of this country." He submitted to a frisk by the other, who relieved him of his pocket phone. The Mexican stuck Bat's Gyrojet pistol in his belt and said, "You'll never reach Peru or Ecuador, Senor Hardin. This way, please." He indicated with his gun the more modern of the three cars. "Where do you think you're taking me?" "It is not a matter of mere thinking, Senor Hardin. Just to make matters clear, I would not particularly mind shooting you." Bat climbed into the seat next to that of the driver. Into the back climbed one of the uniformed men, a short carbine at the ready and trained at the back of the American's head. The English-speaking one took the driver's seat and started up. They had to wait a half minute for the engine to heat; the steamer was that old a model. "What am I supposed to have; done?" Bat demanded. The other ignored him and said something in Spanish to the Mexican in the rear. That one threw what seemed to be a towel over Bat's eyes and tied it roughly. Bat winced when his cut on the ride of the head had pressure applied to it. They drove only a few minutes before taking off on what was obviously a side road. They went on for perhaps two kilometers, apparently climbing rather steeply. 'C'inally they came to a halt and car doors opened. There were other voices now, in the background, all speaking Spanish. Bat was taken by each arm, not especially roughly, and led forward. They entered a house, led him down what was evidently a hall and sat him in a chair. A new voice, an older voice and a highly cultured one, said, "Ah, Mr. Hardin. You do not look like a villain, Mr. Hardin. But I suppose you do not know that you are a villain. Villains seldom think of themselves as villains, I understand. They usually think they are terribly put upon and only doing what is correct." Bat snapped, "What is the meaning of all this? I don't have the vaguest idea of why you've grabIF bed me, or what's going on. How do you know my name?" "That's not important, Mr. Hardin, and we are not particularly interested in you. Any of your town authorities, or even an ordinary member of your community would have done. It is just that circumstance made it you, rather than someone else. We wished to issue an ultimatum." "An ultimatuml" Bat snapped. "I'm beginning to suspect you're all around the bend. What was the idea of stopping me, dressed in those phony uniforms? You're not Mexican officials, certainly you're not police." "But we are Mexicans, Mr. Hardin, and in a way even police. Vigilante police. And here is our ultimatum. Your mobile town of New Woodstock must turn about and return to your own country." "We applied for and received all permissions required by the Mexican authorities to pass through the country and exit through Guatemala." "We do not agree with some of our authorities. They are overly conscious of the American dollars spent by you tourists, you vacationers and you who permanently establish yourselves in our country and devastate it and corrupt our young people with your money, your lack of common decency in your moral code, your bad taste." Bat began to say something but the older man interrupted him. "When I was a boy, you used te cross the border in ones and twos, some as ordinary tourists, some in their house trailers. We welcomed you, welcomed the dollars you spent in our country. It must have been at the time of the # Olympics that the dam first broke. That year, not scores or even hundreds of your trailers and mobile homes crossed but literally thousands. And that was just the beginning. When you established your fantastic Negative Income Tax and denly free to leave America's overcrowded cities with their slums and ghettos, then they swarmed out over not only your own land but Canada and above all Mexico, as well." A new voice,  a younger voice but still in English, added, "And now my own country, Guatemala and the other nations to the south. Everywhere, everywhere, your damnable mobile cities destroy the countries in which they park." "Look," Bat said. "We pay our way. We spend plenty in every country we go through or remain in. Your people benefit by the dollars we spend." The older man's voice came again. "A few benefit. Most of us, not at all. Our way of life, our culture, is destroyed. The sites in W which you stay, government-built, are government operated. The government collects for the power you buy, it collects for the expenditures yoti make in the ultra-markets, restaurants and cantinas located on each site. Admittedly, the money realized is used by our authorities in their grandiose attempts to speed up the industrialization of Mexico. But some of us are not even sure that we wish to be industrialized to the fantastic extent to which you of the north have accomplished." Bat began to retort, but the other overrode him. "Mr. Hardin, Mexico's relationship with the colossus to the north has not been a happy one, by and large. The flag that flew over the Alamo and was captured by Santa Anna's army was that of a volunteer troop from New Orleans. And did you know, Mr. Hardin, the big reason the Texan revolt took place? Most of the American immigrants were from your southern states and couldn't bear the fact that Mexico had abolished slavery. But Texas was not enough. Border trouble was provoked and what are now your states of Arizona, New Mexico, California and parts of others were also seized. The fact that the seizure was pre-meditated is to be seen in the fact that your General Fremont and his army had treked all the way to California before the war was declared and were ready at hand to capture that area. "But all that is past history. It is the present to which we object. Your New Woodstock is but a small town, comparatively. Your mobile cities come and completely dominate our country. The best beaches from Tijuana to the Guatemala border and from Matamoros to Yucatan are crowded with them. Manzanilla, for instance, once a small fishing town and resort, now has no room for Mexicans on vacation. Thousands upon thousands of your luxurious mobile homes cover every desirable spot. Every restaurant is full of your people, every bar, every nightclub overruns with them. Your hordes eat up the best products of our seas and our fields and orchards. With your fantastic incomes, you shame a Mexican, make him appear a beggar in comparison. In such resorts you run up the prices astronomically so that we can no longer buy any luxury items." The older sounding man snorted in contempt. "What is your current Per Capita Annual Income? Something like #?" Bat said sourly, "Precious few of us who live in mobile towns have incomes approaching that." "But nevertheless, even a comparatively well-to-do Mexican seldom sees the amount one of your Bat said angrily, "If you people would cool your population explosion a little your Per Capita income would go up too. Your population increases almost as fast as your industrialization." T he first voice he had heard, that of the leader of the group that had captured him spoke then and bitterly. "We do not need lessons in the manner in which to control the size of our families, Senor Hardin. One of our greatest objections to your presence is the manner in which you spread your corrupt moral code" The old voice came again. "How can our people get underway when the intellectual drain bleeds us white of our best minds and most highly trained technicians? My own son is a surgeon. Does he operate on his people who need him so badly? No, he has been attracted by the high pay in the United States." A new voice broke in, as bitter as were the others. "But your towns, your hundreds of thousands of mobile homes, streaming south. It is they that blanket our country and make them envious of your affluence and susceptible to your corruption. Why even this New Temple that sweeps your country. It is a religion of no religion. What do you think our simpler people are to believe when they see that such a religion is that of people who live like gods by their standards?" Bat said, "Look. None of this is deliberate on our part. It began a long time ago and accelerated and there is no way to call a halt. We Americans have a tradition of being on the move." "But why to Mexico? Gringos go home I You're destroying our country. We don't want you!" Bat said stubbornly, "Your officials gave us permission to enter." "Yes, our officials! Your dollars corrupt everything. Our officials cannot see beyond the immediate through the money you spend." "We're only passing through," Bat said. "We'll only be in Mexico for a short time. We're heading all the way down the Pan American Highway to South America." The voice of the one from Guatemala broke in heatedly. "Yes, and in our small country your presence is even more objectionable. We of the more progressive classes are up in arms. I have come all this way to join the forces of Don Caesar..." "Shuush," somebody muttered. "... and to prevent you fuom getting any further. Some of your towns are already swarming over nations as far south as Chile and the Argentine. Why you have not already been met with arms, I cannot say." B at said impatiently, "Why, pick on New Woodstock? I've never heard of anything Kke IF this before. You haven't attempted to turn back other towns." The older man's voice said, "Quite deliberately, Mr. Hardin. Obviously, what we do is illegal by Mexican law. However, we are dedicated and determined men. You will be an example. The fact that you are a mobile art colony, with all the connotations that brings to the average person's mind, will make the example stronger. Were we to attempt to stop a city or town composed almost entirely of elderly retirees, it would be more difficult for us to gain sympathy both in your country and ours. But an art colony has a connotation of Bohemian life, immoral artists, high flown parties, much drinking of alcohol and smoking of marijuana." Bat said bitterly, "You'd be surprised how hard working and staid most real artists are." "That is beside the point. It will be what people think, not the reality. Those that support us will draw a vivid picture of the depravity of New Woodstock, Mr. Hardin, and how God-fearing, countryloving Mexicans turned you back in indignation." "And if we don't turn back?" "We are dedicated and determined men, Mr. Hardin." "It isn't up to me," Bat said flatly. "New Woodstock is operated democratically to the extent we have government at all. It'll have to be brought before the executive committee." "Very well," the old man said. "Jose, return him to his car." Jose, evidently the original captor, spoke rapidly in Spanish for a moment, then took Bat by the arm "Let's go, Gringo," he said. Bat came to his feet and suffered the other to lead him back the way they had come earlier. They retraced the route in the same elderly steamer, and the blindfold was not removed until they reached the spot where Bat's car had been left. They kept him carefully covered. Jose looked into the interior of the car thoughtfully. He reached out with the barrel of the revolver he carried -- it was an old style, possibly World War Two vintage, six-shooter -- and smashed the screen of the vehicle's phone. "Hey, that was a dirty trick," Bat protested. Jose said apologetically, "Sorry. We'd rather you not be able to communicate with the police immediately." "I'll do just that when I get back to Linares." "That will give us time enough." "How about my gun?" "I'll keep your gun, Senor Hardin. I'd hate to have you using it on me, later." Bat climbed into the car, started it up and made a wide turn, heading back for the site where New Woodstock had settled for the night previous. He swore under his breath. It was going to be a hassle to get another pocket phone here in Mexico. He'd probably have to wait until he got to Mexico City and the American Consulate. These days, the unique device combined not only a portable TV phone, but your identity number which embraced your credit account, your voter's registration, your military number, what amounted to your post office box, your income tax registration, and all else in the way of identity, including passport. Well, it couldn't be helped. Tew Woodstock was beginning  to get itself together preparatory to leaving, when Bat arrived. However, it would undoubtedly take a couple of hours or so more before it was really ready to roll. Instead of going to see Dean Armanruder immediately, he returned to his home with a cup of coffee in mind. He wanted to think about it a little before confronting the executive committee's questions. Obviously, they would depend largely on his opinions and Bat Hardin wasn't quite sure what they were. He entered his mobile home and stared at the table. There on it was his pocket phone cum credit card. He took it up, still staring disbelief. So far as he could see, there was nothing wrong with it. Bat left his home and looked up and down. Sam Prager's mobile home and electronic repair shop was parked next to him on one side but nobody seemed to be about his place. Probably still in bed. The Pragers were inclined to read late into the night and arise at a late hour. Ferd Zogbaum's camper was on the other side but there was no sign of Ferd. Bat strode over in that direction, and ran into his comrade in arms of the night before on the far side of the camper. He was evidently deep in a heated discussion with Jeff Smith, a discussion that was already just short of physical combat it seemed. "All right," Smith snapped. "You asked for it!" He began to fall into a fighter's stance. Bat began, "Okay, okay, you two. Break it up, you're not a couple of kids." Jeff Smith turned on him, glowering. "Shut up, nigger t" V B at stared at Jeff Smith for a moment, then threw back his head and laughed. "It's been a long time since I've heard that word," he said. "You must be the last of the old time southerners. As a matter of fact, my maternal grandmother was a Negress, but I doubt if even she was full-blooded." IF "Any nigger blood at all makes you one!" Bat grinned at him. "So I understand was the law in some of the southern states in the old days. I wonder just what percentage of you southerners have African blood in you. For two centuries and more you had your black slaves. For all that time your men forced themselves on the more attractive girls. There was a custom in .such towns as New Orleans of young aristocrats setting up an apartment there in the French Quarter and keeping a quadroon or octaroon mistress. You know what the children of an octaroon look like, Smith? They look white and they move to another town and pass as white. Did you labor under the illusion that the famed Creole beauties of Louisiana were solely of French descent?" Smith began some obscenity, but Bat was suddenly fed up with the argument and with himself for bothering to get into it. He turned to Ferd and said, "Could I talk to you a minute? It's important." "Sure, why not," Ferd Zogbaum said, ignoring Jeff Smith. He took Bat's arm and headed around the camper, leaving behind the smaller man to glare after them. Bat said, when they were out of earshot, "What was all that?" Ferd shrugged it off. "Evidently, Jeff has delusions of being a great lover, or something. He's got a thing for Diana, you well know." "Well, I don't blame him. She's a darn nice girl." "Sure. But unfortunately for Jeff, she doesn't have a thing for him. What'd you want to see me about?" "Did you see anybody go into my home this morning while I was gone?" "I didn't even know you were gone, but no. Something stolen, or something? We don't have much in the way of petty thievery around New Woodstock. I'd hate to see it happening." "No. Not that. As a matter of fact, the other way. Somebody put something back." Ferd looked at him and Bat made a quick rundown of the morning's happenings, including the return of the pocket phone. Ferd hissed a whistle. Bat said, "As a matter of fact, it was damned decent of them to return it. They didn't have to and there must have been some risk involved. These vigilanties aren't really bad people and in a way I can see their point." "Sure. Great," Ferd said. "But that's not going to do you much good when they start sniping away at us from the top of some hill as we go driving by." Bat said, "Well, keep it under your hat for the time being. I'll see what Dean Armanruder has to say." Tat Hardin stood before the  identity screen of the Armanruder home and activated it. Nadine Paskov's voice said impatiently, # 'You again? I thought you were driving up the road to check it." Bat said patiently, "Pm back. I'd like to see Mr. Armanruder." "He's having his breakfast." "It's of the greatest importance, Miss Paskov." "Just a minute." Within that time the door opened and Bat stepped through and started down the corridor to the dining room. "Good morning, Hardin," the retired magnate said, looking up from toast and coffee, "Coffee? Sit down." Nadine Paskov wasn't present but a dirty cup and plate indicated where she had taken her own breakfast. The Armanruder establishment was one of the few in New Woodstock that didn't utilize disposable plates and utensils; but then, it was also the only home that had servants to clean up. Bat accepted the coffee and launched into his story. By the time he had finished, Dean Armanruder was swearing. He banged down his cup, came to his feet and said, "Come with me." He led the way to his office. He sat down at his desk and activated the TV phone screen. "The police station in Linares," he said. A Mexican face faded into view. Armanruder snapped, "D you speak English?" The other said evenly, "For all practical purposes, all educated Mexicans speak English. May I ask who you are and what you wish?" "I am Dean Armanruder, senior member of the executive committee of the mobile town of New Woodstock." " And I am Miguel Avila DeLeon, captain of police of the city of Linares," the other nodded. "What can I do for you, Senor?" The captain of Mexican police listened to the account with a frown of disbelief but said courteously, "Who were these men?" Bat came over and stood next to Armanruder. "I wouldn't know. I was blindfolded. However, one who was obviously an older man was called Don Caesar and the one who kidnapped me was called Jose." "Both rather common names in Latin countries," the captain said. "They turned you loose?" "Yes, f course, here I am." The captain had a few other questions. Bat answered everything to the best of his ability but there seemed to be a strange something in the police chief's manner. Finally, it came out. He said, "Senor Hardin, if I am not mistaken you are the gentleman who, in company with another Norteamericano provoked a drunken brawl..." IF "We weren't at all drunk!" Captain DeLeon went on, "Er, in one of the cantinas here in Linares, severely battering several of the citizens. My men took measures to see that none of our victims carried the matter further, but it would seem that some of them, Working behind our backs, took their revenge by playing a bit of a prank on you." Bat said flatly, "The men who kidnapped me had no relationship to those in the bar. My kidnappers were educated men who spoke excellent English. Those in the bar were town bums." "I am sure you are mistaken, Senor Hardin. However, I will look into the matter." Armanruder said harshly, "What are you going to do about it?" The captain shrugged a most Latin shrug and pursed his lips in regret. "I doubt if there is anything I can do about it, but, as I say, I shall investigate. Have you decided to turn back?" "No we haven't!" Armanruder snapped, flicking off the set. TTe sat and glared in Bat's dL  rection but not at him. Bat said, "The captain's voice. I've heard it before, or, at least, I think I have. It was one of the voices when I was blindfolded." "Are you sure!" "No, not sure, but I think it was." Dean Armanruder steamed for a moment, then flicked on the set again. "John Fielding, President of United Mobile Cities Association of America, Greater Denver, Colorado." When the face faded in, it was an impatient face. "Fielding here. I must say, this is an untoward hour. I won't be in my office until nine." Armanruder said, just as snappishly, "And this is an untoward situation." He gave Bat's story to the association head in detail. The other thought about it, unhappily. He took a deep breath finally and said, "This is the worst yet." "You mean there have been other examples?" "Mr. Armanruder, do you know how many mobile cities, towns and villages crossed the border yesterday? Twenty-two, including New Woodstock. The largest was a city of more than fifty thousand occupants. Of course, this is the high season. Most of the mobile towns will remain in Mexico for only a few weeks, or months but some plan to remain indefinitely. The number increases each year. Wouldn't you expect a certain amount of friction?" "Friction isn't quite the way to put it. These men were heavily armed. They threatened Mr. Hardin's life." John Fielding nodded. "I suspect that before we're through it will continue to get worse." Dean Armanruder said, "What are you going to do?" "About Mr. Hardin's adventure? What can we do? We'll protest to the Mexican tourism authorities but, actually, you have very little in the way of evidence to present and evidently aren't getting much in the way of support from the local police in acquiring more. Frankly, I'm inclined to think it a bluff. A small number of malcontents who wished to throw a scare into you. The moment one of them actually fired a shot, the Mexican police would be on them like a flash." "I hope you're right," Bat muttered. Dean Armanruder made the standard goodbyes and flicked the set off. Then he flicked it on again and said, "New Woodstock, Mr. Blake, Mr. Stryn, Doctor Barnes, Mr; TerX T#hen the executive committee   had all assembled, Dean Armanruder had them seated in the salon. Jim Blake, the town's most successful artist, financially speaking; Dag Stryn, also an artist and the guru of the town's New Temple movement; Doctor Barnes; Phil tired element in New Woodstock; and Sam Prager, who more or less represented the mechanics and other workers in town. Dean Armanruder told the story himself, rather than Bat, but when it was over the questions were fired at the town's patrolman. Sam Prager finally asked, "How many were there, Bat" "I'm not sure. I saw only four. I heard the voices of at least three others. There might have been twenty of them, for all I know. Or more." voice on the fearful side, "I think we ought to go back." "Certainly not," Jim Blake said heatedly. "What are we, a bunch of sissies? We'll call on the police." "We already did," Bat said. "They didn't answer." Blake said, "We'll call in the American authorities, then. We're all American citizens." "I'm not," Sam Prager said. "I'm a Canadian, but the thing is we're in Mexico and under the jurisdiction of the Mexicans even if this is a predominantly American mobile town." "We can issue a complaint to the American Consulate in Mexico City." "If we get to Mexico City," Bat said lowly. "I vote to turn back, before it's too late. I'm retired and have only a few years of life left to me. I have no intention of having the period shortened by desperate men shooting at me." IF "IH vote to go back too," Dag Stryn said. "I'D go on if the rest of you so decide but these people don't want us." "A very small number, perhaps, don't want us; but for that matter some Americans don't like the mobile towns and cities. We can't please everyone," Dean Armanruder said. "I vote to go on." "I vote to go on," Jim Blake said loudly. "So do I," Sam Prager said. Doctor Barnes said, "Until we have evidence that they are really as determined as they say, I also vote to go on." "The vote is four to two," Dean Armanruder said. "We will proceed. I suggest that the whole matter be kept to us here; there is no use alarming the possibly more timid elements in New Woodstock." "Wait a minute," Bat said. "This isn't a matter for the executive committee to decide alone. You can't expose everyone to this possible danger without their even knowing about it. This is a matter of convening the assembly. If we vote on such matters as whether or not to stop for lunch, we certainly should vote on something as important as this." Dean Armanruder looked at him. "Your opinion is not needed, Hardin. As town police officer you have a voice but not a vote in this executive committee. "Bat's right," Sam ftager said. "It isn't up to us to decide. "We'D have to call the assembly." Doc Barnes nodded. "Obvioesfy. I'm afraid it's going to mean a splitting up of the town. But we can't take innocent people into possible gunfire or other danger without giving them the opportunity of debating and voting on it.   Armanruder were going through the routine of summoning the assembly of all residents of New Woodstock over the age of eighteen, Bat Hardin went over to Sam Prager's home cum repair shop and knocked at the door. Edith Prager opened it. She was an intense woman who impressed Bat Hardin as having a culture complex beyond that usually associated with even inhabitants of an art colony. He liked Sam Prager but invariably felt uncomfortable in the presence of his wife. She wrote poetry, Doc Barnes had said. "Hello, Mr. Hardin," she said, standing in the door without inviting him in. "Good morning," he said. "Is Sam back from the meeting yet?" "No, he isn't. What's this atxmt an assembly?" "That's right It's being organized right now. When Sam comes, will you let him know that the spreen on my car phone is broken? I think it's just the screen. She said sharply, "It'll take a whole unit, possibly. Who's to pay?" Bat said, "It's my own car, Mrs. Prager, but it was damaged while on duty for the town. I assume the cost of parts will come out of town finances, but I'll take the bill immediately and charge it to the town later on. Tell Sam I'd appreciate having him put a high priority on this. A police car simply can't operate without a TV phone." "I'll tell him," she said and closed the door. She seemed a bit abrupt. Bat remembered Jeff Smith and wondered if there were others in New Woodstock who, inwardly at least, objected to him because of his racial heritage. It had been quite a time since he had even thought about the subject. Particularly in a town such as New Woodstock, you didn't expect to nm into characters who bothered with such nonsense as race, color or religious beliefs. He wondered vaguely if there were any Jews in New Woodstock; he had never thought of that before, either. Was Prager a Jewish name, or Zogbaum? The hell with it. He was impatient of the subject in this day and age. T Te re-entered his mobile house and took up a folding chair and, carrying it, went back to the center of the site. Others were already setting up their own chairs in a large horseshoe-like semi-circle. It came to him that this was a present day equivalent of the old Town Meeting of New England or, possibly, something like the governing of the Swiss Confederation of cantons. Working democracy in which every adult had his say because the governing unit was small enough so that power and responsibility didn't have to be delegated. When all except a few straggling latecomers had found places, Dean Armanruder opened the meeting. He came immediately to the point. "Mr. Hardin has requested a convening of the assembly on the grounds that the community has been threatened with physical danger and must decide whether or not to continue this move to South America. Mr. Hardin." When Bat had finished, stunned silence met his words for the nonce. Dean Armanruder cleared his throat. "The question before us is whether to proceed, or whether to return to the United States." For a long moment, no one requested permission to speak. Finally: "The chair recognizes Mr. Jeff Smith." Smith stood next to his folding seat and looked about him deliberately. "I think the first thing to consider is whether this whole story isn't a complete lie?" IF IF  Short Story On the Dead Star You might say a trial on the J ason leaned both hands on the thin euramite handrail. He could feel the intense straining of the gravity shell vibrate up his arms and into his head. It was a familiar feeling and it was a familiar position, standing in front of the large, thick, crystal viewing window, with the hazy lime-green glowing of the gravity shell tinting the view. He liked being captain of a Heavy Probe, and he liked standing there, staring out at the perfectly symmetrical surface of Black Dwarf #. There was no doubt about it; Jason liked his work. "These damned dead stars give existence was merry sphere. me a pain," he said, as he pounded the rail with the palms of his hands. From across the small raft-likecabin there came a faintly mechanical reply. "Indicate the nature and location of your pain. I will prescribe treatment." Jason turned slowly and faced the dozen or so blinking lights of the computer. His face looked pained. He started to scream, "It's in my " Then he stopped himself. "Computer, disregard statement." "Disregarded." For the last six months hed put up with all of the smart-alec cracks from the new computer, and he was finally beginning to get used to them. He turned away, shaking his bead, and stared out at the symmetrically perfect carbon ash-heap that reached out into the dim distance. It always made him feel strange inside to think he was on the surface of a star -- a dead star. It also made him feel strange when failure of the gravity shell. The result would be to spread him as a film one atom thick over the entire surface of the star. But really there wasn't anything to worry about. The shells just didn't fail; and besides, that was all part of the thrill of the work. Then, as he looked out the viewing window, he saw another part of his job. Stars. The black surface of the Dwarf set off their faint radiance and made them look as if he could reach up and grab a handful. God, of them within a dozen parsecs. And then, with a sigh, he turned to the matters at hand. "Computer, activate sensors and begin recording data." As an afterthought, he added, "Audio readout this time." "Activating," the machine said, and then silently went to work. Jason rather liked this new model computer, despite the fact that it sounded off at times with impudent cracks. He also rather liked not having to sweat over a control an IF first Each month If brings you a new writer, never before published. This months is Jack L. Alston, a #-year-old California student who plans to study screenwriting hobbies as # you name it" -- but his chief Interest is writing science fiction.At fifteen, he was already writing # words a week regularly, and now he # ; working hard on TV scripts. All that effort paid off, as you'll see in his story this time  -- and many more to come, we're sure. panel and figure out the trajectory and the landing procedures and all the other stuff that went with manual control. But probably best of all, he liked not having to put up with all the damned clattering racket the old one had made. The computer was ready. "Data coming in. Surface temperature: # degrees Kelvin. Mass: # kilometers. Radial velocity: one galactic year. Additional: galactic coordinates zero-zero degrees." Well, no wonder all the stars I Right smack in the center of the galaxy. At first he felt like laughing out loud, but then he felt a curious sort of pride and just smiled. The feeling made it all worthwhile. The computer interrupted his thoughts as it continued. "Extremely high percentage of zirconium. Otherwise, standard class C-#... IF hold!" There was a brief silence filled with blinking lights, and followed by a now puzzled mechanical voice. "Sixty-eight degrees, four minutes west -- forty-five degrees, three minutes south: protrusion on surface." Jason muttered something about the fail-proof new computers and went over to the machine and pushed several red buttons. Lights flickered in the silence, then nothing. "What the hell?" he said aloud, "There's nothing wrong with it!" It had all checked out. He was suddenly worried. "Computer, recalibrate." "I TThile the machine worked on in '  silence, Jason ran over to the viewing window, wondering if it was the Gelcons. Brother, that was just what he needed -- a diplomatic incident on his record. Well, it wasn't his fault. How the hell was he supposed to know the Dwarf belonged to somebody else? You don't just hang a flag out on a Black Dwarf. "Fact is affirmative," boomed the computer. It just had to be something else. Hoping some freak in the laws of physics could save him, he turned and asked, "What's surface gravity?" "# gravities." That was it. There wasn't anything natural which could stand all that force. It had to be the Gelcons. He wondered if he'd blundered onto a whole military outpost on some sort of anti-grav pads. "Can you specify size and type of protrusion?" "Two objects. One: metallic -- two point eight-nine kilometers vertapering to a point. Two: ceramic crystal structure -- spherical -- two hundred meter diameter." Next came the big question. "Is there any... Stop. Can you detect any life forms in the area?" Silence. Then the machine answered, "Negative. Suggest a close examination of area." Jason was so relieved to learn there was nobody there that the Probe was already speeding across the Dwarf toward the strange pair of objects, before he realized he'd given the command. He suddenly wondered if he'd better not let somebody else handle this whole thing, and just get out of there. But then he began thinking about the needle-like spire pointing two miles straight into space, and about the big sphere. It puzzled him. Should he go? Here he had a chance to discover something, something possibly valuable. And after all, wasn't that why he was there? That was it, and he was going. Just then he felt a twinge in his stomach and he tried to figure out if it was from fear or excitement. Minutes wore on, miles fled behind the speeding Probe, and Jason grew nervous. "Computer, any additional information?" "Negative," it said simply. "How long till we reach the objective?" "Five minutes, forty-three . seconds." That was going to be one long five minutes. He sat down and tapped an erratic beat near the sharp edge of the desk top with his fingers. The unidentified twinge in his stomach wrenched. He stood up and walked over to the handrail. Stars, ash-heap and galaxy were all tinted with the lime-green glowing of the gravity shell. Somewhere out. there ahead was something that just couldn't exist; and yet it was there -- withstanding eleven thousand plus gravities. He took a deep breath. The uneasy rasp from it seemed to reverberate through the silent cabin, and he half wished the computer would come up with some stupid wisecrack. Suddenly the computer voice resounded in his ears. "Object visable on horizon," it said, "Contact in three minutes." Jason strained his eyes and frantically searched, but he couldn't see anything. The Probe began its slow braking process, as he searched back and forth across the horizon. Nothing, nothing but... Wait! Yes, there it was. Ever so faint, a tiny glint of metal. He watched as it grew in size and brightness. It was an incredible thing. With normal gravity, a two-mile spire was a difficult engineering feat, but here on a Black Dwarf it was just impossible. Then, the top of that ceramic sphere began to rise slowly above the horizon. It was white, and from the distance it looked smooth. "Computer," he asked, "what are they?" "Unknown," was the answer. "Well, how long to contact?" "Contact in... " But the computer never finished. As Jason watched, it seemed as if a thousand electrical storms had been unleashed from the sphere. Hundreds of spider-tentacles of lightening energy ripped across the surface of the star, toward the Probe. They danced madly on the hull, and inside they sparked through everything, sucking out the energy. Then instantly they were gone, retreated back to the Sphere. The cabin was dark and silent. Jason lay by the handrail on the floor in a heap, unconscious.  like a shovel full of dried desert mud. It cracked as he breathed. His eyes were burning 'fiercely and beads of sweat poured from his body. The first blurry thing he saw was the viewing window. Its lime-green glowing was gone. The gravity shell was gone! He must be dead! Slowly he raised up on one side, blinked and rubbed his IF eyes, unbelieving. As he stood up, he was hit by a blast of seething hot air. He gasped for breath. The cabin was hot, unbearably hot. His head swam. "Computer," he choked, "temperature control." There was no response. He swung around to find the computer's blinking lights were out. The computer was deadl Dazed, he staggered across the deck to the machine and stabbed blindly at several swaying red buttons. His arms ached. His head began to throb, and then the whole cabin spun around and went black. Jason was shivering when he regained consciousness. The metal deck felt cold against his face. He suddenly tasted blood in his mouth and it scared him. A shock of adrenalin flushed through his body and he doubled up in a convulsion. His fingers were numb and his eyes ached from the cold. Everything was blurry. He sat up and touched his aching forehead. There was a deep gash there and it was bleeding. He could feel the warmth of the blood as it ran down his cheek. Then he remembered -- the viewing window! He looked. It was black. As he looked around, he couldn't believe it. Everything was still there, and he was alive! Even the computer was operating again, and yet the gravity shell was gone! His teeth began to chatter as he asked, "Computer. Why aren't we dead?" "There is a gravity neutralization field within a five kilometer radius of the sphere. Present gravity: sub-normal." Jason felt helpless. His head was blurry, he couldn't think straight and he was freezing. "Computer, activate temperature control." "Impossible." "But why? What's going on?" "We triggered a reaction field. Variety: unknown. It has extracted all the Nu-mesons from the reactor elements. No main power Auxiliary batteries only." "Then tap some of the battery power!" Almost immediately the cabin began to warm. Jason's teeth soon quit clacking together and he could think once again. Without the reactors, there was no high-pulse communications, and the nearest star-base was over # parsecs away. That also put the engines out of work, and along with them the gravity shell. It was all fantastic! There was something here on a Black Dwarf canceling the star's crushing gravity. He was caught up in something he couldn't understand and coldn't help. The deck passed awkwardly beneath his feet as he went toward the viewing window. Then suddenly, the Probe shot forward with a tremendous lurch; Jason was thrown to the deck. "Yee-ouch!" he yelled, as he crashed to the hard floor. "Vehicle is in motion," affirmed the computer from across the room. He felt like cursing the machine, but thought better of it and rubbed his bruised knee instead. After crawling the rest of the way over to the viewing window, he pulled himself up to the handrail. God, it was a weird feeling to see the viewing window without the green glow of the shell. Outside, roughly four miles away, he could see the sphere and the spire. The computer announced,  "Vehicle approaching sphere at eight meters per second." Quddenly in the distance, there light. It came from the spire. Great cloud-like pulses of energy were sweeping up from the base to the tip and then diffusing out into space. It looked like some gigantic Jacobi Ladder. There was more data. "Vehicle is increasing speed. Fourteen meters per second." Well, if this kept up, he was certainly going to get a closer look. It suddenly hit him. He was being pulled right into that mass of seething energy! "Computer, are we heading for the spire?" "Negative," came the reply. That was a relief. At least he wasn't going to be fried alive. As he looked out, he could see that the ship was heading safely between the pair of objects. Now that he was safe, he grew curious again. "Computer, can you analyze the energy from the spire?" "Spire pulses are masses of neutron-proton groups, whose mesonmeson interaction has been violently upset, causing the emanation of approximately ten megawatts of giga-frequency electromagnetic energy, in an omnidirectional pattern." What it all meant was more than he could see. Obviously a radio transmitter of some sort, but why here on a Black Dwarf? Then the computer had more information. "Vehicle trajectory is curved. Will impact with sphere in two minutes, five seconds. Velocity increasing. Seventeen meters per second." It couldn't be! Jason spun around and glared out the viewing window. It was right! Already he could see they were turning, right toward the sphere. He was confused. He didn't know just what to make of the last few minutes. Everything had happened so fast All the power had been sucked out of his engines -- he couldn't alter his course, he couldn't send for help, and in another two minutes he'd be dead -- smashed like a tomato against the sphere. He stared numbly out the window. The Probe was plunging faster and faster toward it. Death was crashing in on Jason with all its vulgar fury, and yet he was immersed in silence. It was too much; he couldn't stand it. IF He whirled around. "Computer! Can't we do anything?" "Negative," was the cool reply. "How long?" he yelled. "Forty seconds." He was totally helpless. Closer and closer, larger and larger grew the sphere. Twenty seconds away. He gripped thfc handrail harder. The sphere now filled the viewing window completely. In another ten seconds he'd be smashed to a pulp. Silence, weird and out of place. His knuckles were white. He braced himself. With a tremendous crunch, the Probe met the sphere. Instantly the small cabin was filled with great streaks of lightning and Jason was thrown against the opposite wall. Uninjured, he shook his head and looked up. Half of the Probe was gone. The sphere was absorbing it, like a bit of food! Slowly the ceramic surface of the sphere was moving across the deck toward him. It was closing in on him. He pushed frantically against the deck with his feet to get away. No good! He was trapped against the wall. It was coming closer and closer, crackling as it came. He could see himself being crushed against the wall. What was that? There was a strange feeling in his foot. He looked down. The foot was gone -- it was in the sphere. He tried to move it. Impossible! He pushed against the sphere with his other foot, but it too was immediately absorbed into the sphere, as into wet cement. Both of his legs were in up to his thighs. He couldn't feel them at all! It was up to his waist, like so much sand pouring through a sieve. His stomach and lower ribs were disappearing. He was frantic. He reached with his hands to push himself away. No good! They too stuck tight. Slowly it moved up his chest. All he could move was his head. He was being suffocated! He tried to scream, but he couldn't -- he no longer had any lungs. J ason didn't know how long he'd been unconscious, but he felt rested. He was inside the Probe, lying on the deck and there fusing into the cabin through the viewing window. He slowly crawled over to it; shading his eyes from the glare, he peered out. The light seemed to be coming from everywhere. He couldn't see anything, except a fuzzy wall that flickered red and orange and looked like fire. Damn these Probes, he thought to himself; there was only one window. He leaned close to the crystal window and pressed his cheek against it to increase his viewing angle. No good, still nothing. He wondered where in hell he was. Well, there was only one way to find out. "Computer, give me the life support specs." "Atmosphere: oxygen nitrogen plus trace elements. Temperature: normal. Radiation: slightly above normal." Jason now knew it was safe to go outside, but he was hesitant. He decided he'd better dean himself up before he went out. That way he'd have a little time to organize his thinking. He went over to the medical locker and got out a medipad. And then, from the storage cabinets, he got a large steri-towel and deaned his face and hands and the wound. That felt better. He tore open the package and gently put the medi-pad on his forehead. "Yee-ouchl" he yelled. "Five thousand years of medirine and the damned things still burn." Instantly he added in the same tone, "Shutup, computer!" There was nothing else to wait for. He took a deep breath and then released the lever. The thick hatch popped open without any hiss of pressure equalizing. Jason carefully went to the opening and stuck his head out. He was inside a huge hemisphere about # meters across. The curved walls of the thing changed colors randomly in patches, now a deep red, now a bright orange. He realized he was inside the sphere. The reason he couldn't see anything from inside the Probe was because the viewing window had been backed up next to the wall. But now he was facing right out into everything. The Probe was resting on a plane that split the sphere in half. Whatever was beneath it, he couldn't tell, and what was above it, he couldn't believe. Three short steps below him was an open space covered with a dark green growth of some sort that looked like grass. A little way off, there was a narrow, orange pathway that led through what appeared to be a forest, but not like any forest he'd ever seen before. There were literally hundreds of weirdly twisted geometric shapes and cylindrical forms scattered randomly about, as far as he could see. The objects were made of some dear crystalline substance, but their insides were shot through with tiny particles of color that flashed and ance, like the glistening of a displaced rainbow. All these objects in the weird light made an utterly fascinating sight. Jason stepped down and bent over to examine the grass. It felt cool like grass, but it was artificial. He knew it wasn't real because, as he walked over to the pathway, it crunched beneath his shoes like the breaking of glass. As he stepped out onto the pathway, he. found it very smooth, but not at all slippery. He began to walk toward the forest of objects. About ten feet in front of him was one object nearly twice his height that looked something like a pretzel, but was twisted and misshapen. As he approached, the insides of the thing began to flow with washes of color that IF blended with each other but didn't disturb the bursting particles of color. He was next to it now; he reached out and touched it. It was very smooth and a gentle warmth seemed to radiate from it. As Jason looked down toward the bottom of it, a voice -- a smooth, masculine voice -- flooded the hemisphere. "Do you like it?" the voice asked. "It's my favorite." J ason turned around, but there was no one there -- nothing. And then he recalled that the voice had seemed to come from everywhere. "Where are you?" asked Jason. "Beneath your feet, inside of you, all around you. I'm everywhere." Jason tried to focus on the walls, but couldn't. A quick scan of the forest of geometric objects revealed nothing. All was motionless, except for the smooth changing of colors in the walls. "Who are you?" he asked. A short laugh rang out. "Don't be frightened now, but let's say I'm one of the Damned, returned from Hell to taunt and haunt." It laughed again. "Does that frighten you?" A strange crawling thing seemed to march up and down Jason's back. "Yes," he choked. "Yes it does." The tone became different now, concerned. "Oh, I'm sorry," it said, "That's no way to start a long friendship, is it?" A long friendship? What did it mean by that? What was going on? "Why did you bring me here?" he asked. "I did not bring you. You came of your own will, to stay with me." Those words rang in his ears. "Stay with you?" "Yes, of course. I am a curious soul, a human sold. I want companionship. It's really very simple. You will remain here with me." That was all there was to it. "I'm your prisoner, then?" "Well, not exactly," it said, not unkindly. "You may leave anytime you wish. Provided, of course, that you find a way of combating the gravity and the vacuum, once you leave. Not to mention getting out of this sealed sphere. But one never knows; does one?" "No, I guess not." Jason couldn't believe it. Here he was, standing and talking with something he couldn't see, something totally unknown to him, that was holding him prisoner. It was all ridiculous. "Why are you doing this?" he asked. "Just what are you curious about? "That's a good point to start on." The voice suddenly had a direction. "Look, why don't you follow the pathway over here? Then we'll talk about it. Yes, yes indeed, we'll talk." The voice was gone. Jason could feel its absence. He conld also feel his own anger at ever leaving the floor of that bar on Beta-Tau-Four to join the service, mixing with anger at this thing, whatever it was, that was holding him here for some stupid reason. It had said there was no certainty about escapes. Well, that had sounded damned overconfident, as far as he could see. So this would be his point to start from. First, he needed information about this thing -- what it looked like, why it was here, how much power it had? From there, he could plan on how to fight it and escape. The twisted objects held a weird sort of fascination for Jason as he hurried down the pathway, surrounded by them. The insides of them would wash with color as he approached; and when he had passed, the colors would fade and just the exploding pin points of color would remain. Then, all around, was that vexing wall of the sphere. When he looked up into it, there was no depth. It was like trying to see the distance of the stars. It all had a sort of bizzare unreality to it. Just then he rounded a bend, and there before him in a clearing was the thing. Tt sat head-high atop a pyramid of ebon cubes. It was a small sphere that glowed internally with a blue light. This was his captor. "Hell-o ! " it said, gaily. "I see youVe come." "Yoy gave me a big choice," he replied' angrily. Its voice was suddenly loud irftb anger. "How would you like to be peeled and salted? Or I can roast you where you stand, if you Kke!" It paused and then went on, "Humph I Is it better to be well or medium rare... uh... Say, what is your name? I could seek it m your mind, but I find that peeping-tom practice very distasteful." Jason was so scared he had difficulty answering. "I... Pm... Jason," he finally managed to blurt out. "Jason," it said, savoring the name. "I like that. And it's a start! Yes, it surely is." The thing was no longer mad. Jason couldn't fathom the change, but there was something else. What was it a start of? Carefully, he asked, "Now that Pm here, what are we going to do?" "We talk, what else?" "Talk? Talk about what?" "About you, of course. I already know all about myself. I want to learn about you." "About me? But why?" "Oh, dear. I can see that this is going to be more difficult than I had thought." Jason was sure this was the end. He closed his eyes and there was a sudden crackling noise behind Mm that made him wince. He turned slowly to find a bench, a table, a pitcher full of liquid and a glass. IF "Tell you what," said the thing, "you sit down and refresh yourself, while I start the conversation. Is that all right with you?" "Yeah, yeah that's all right," he said. He sat down quickly on the hard bench. "Good I Well, let's see -- where to begin? Ah, yes. I'm a beacon, or rather I used to be one. I was called the Voice." It seemed to think for a second, then continued. "Now, how I got here. The little blue sphere you see before you contains a soul, my soul. A bodyless soul, but one that volunteered for hazardous duty when in flesh." It began to laugh, heartily. "Oh, myl It's so good to tell someone about all this. You see, I didn't volunteer -- I was volunteered." The thing continued its laughter. Jason wanted to keep it talking and happy. "What kind of hazardous duty?" It sobered. "Takes an explanation. My people were going to leave the galaxy to explore the universe. And so, to make a long story short, they needed a beacon to find their way back." A couple of pieces fell into place. "The spire outside." "Well, yes. There is the spire now, but that is really insufficient, since all its power will dwindle There was something that didn't fit. "Sorta strange place for a beacon -- here on Black a Dwarf." "Ah, but you see, a little over a G-# star. It was then that I was really a beacon." Now this might lead to something. "You say you made a beacon out of a star?" "Yes, and that was the -- or rather my -- hazardous duty." "What do you mean?" "Well, you see our scientists discovered how to turn the photosphere of a star into a tremendous radio transmitter. But there was one catch." "Yeah, what?" "It had to be done from the inside." J ason, who had been sipping cautiously at the cool drink, choked and began to cough. "From the inside! You mean the inside of the star?" "Uh-huh. An inside job." Jason choked again and forced a laugh. He then pressed on. "But the temperature is twenty-eight G-# star. Nothing but free subatomic particles." "And hot as hell, too," it said, describing the living conditions. "Yeah, but how?" "Through hazardous duty. Flesh can't exist with all that radiation and the tremendous heat. Even with our most sophisticated protection and cooling systems it wasn't feasible." "Why not? Do you know?" "Well, the beacon had to last for doesn't. So my soul was transposed onto a bank of neural, superfluid poly-helium circuits. These would control our displacement device, which knocked all the Delta-mesons from the opposite field nuclei, which in turn set up... Well, you get the idea." Jason was puzzled. "I think so," he said, "But why use a human soul? Why not let a computer do it?" "You see, at the time we didn't have any practical knowledge about the internal evolution of stars. Oh, we had theories, but there was too much at stake to take the chance. With a human soul inside, research could be undertaken to adjust for any unforseen changes, if any took place. And the star could continue functioning as a beacon." There was a pause. Jason searched madly for conversation. "So, years, eh?" "Six to be exact," it said, happily, "I transmitted for about five grees, I lost my transmission and controlling power and drifted to so years the star took to cool, I developed a way effectively to cut off the gravity. But my energy stores had all but dwindled to nothing when you came to help me." That explained another difficulty Jason had met, and it made him angry. "You stole the Nu-mesons from my reactor, didn't you?" He caught himself and waited for pun-, ishment. None came. Instead, the thing sounded hurt at the harsh accusation. "I didn't steal them, I just wanted to borrow them." It sounded as if it was crying. Jason didn't know what to expect. He tried to sooth the creature. "Well, can you put them back? I mean, make my reactors function again?" "Oh, yes. Yes of course, I can." It sounded happy again. "But I have no intention of sending you away like that, now that you've come to me." Another lull in the conversation. Come on boy, keep it going or you'll end up fried alive! "Well, why don't you go on with your story?" It was enthusiastic again. "AB right. Oh, by the way, I'm sorry about the temperature extremes after I borrowed the mesons from your reactors. I didn't know what your normal temperature was, so. I had to guess at it." "Don't mention it. It was only two of the seven rings," he said, with a far-away smile. The voice laughed loudly, and an invisible hand slapped him on the back and knocked him off the IF bench. "Yes, I can see well get along very well together. You have a marvelous sense of humor." Jason frowned, brushed himself off and got back on the bench. "What, uh, did you do all this time?" to do. That was a problem at first, but slowly as my intelligence began to increase along with my knowledge, I began to research and invent and discover things -- evyears you can unravel just about all the tangles of science and creation. As you might have guessed, my latest fancy is art. This garden, or forest or whatever you wish to call it, is merely an extension of my own mind. Sort of like painting or sculpture, but without any physical effort on my part. Just for fun, I think things into place. It's intensly interesting to me." It sighed. "But it's gdtten so dull. What I mean is, there's nothing new. I've learned all there is to learn, I've done everything and I'm bored. The only thing left is people. That's why you're going to stay with me." Jason sounded concerned. "But what do you want me to do?" "I want to share your experiences, your memories -- I want you to tell me of them." The thing sounded like a child with a new toy. "So as long as you're here, you might as well start" Jason had no choice. All his life he'd never been much of a conversationalist, but now he was going to learn -- and quickly. M any hours must have gone by before Jason finally asked, "Are you interested in continuing this now?" "Oh, yes, indeed I am," I said brightly. Then it added, "Ah, but you're tired, I can see that. You may return to your Probe and spend the night. Tomorrow we'll make plans for a permanent place for you to sleep." Jason got up. His legs ached and his seat hurt from sitting on that damned hard bench. He limped the first steps down the pathway, and then turned to look back at the sphere as it said, "Good-night, Jason. Sweet dreams." "Yeah, right. Happy nightmares to you, too," he choked back, hoarsely. The thing laughed again. "You're just hilarious, Jason. I've made an excellent choice in you." As he hobbled down the pathway, he didn't think too much about the choice the thing had made, and he didn't think it was one damned bit funny. The hatch was still open when Jason reached the Probe. He slowly entered, crossed the deck and plopped down in his bunk. He tried to think, but he ached too much. All he could think about was spending the rest of his life entertaining that stupid blue ball. "Damnit!" he yelled, as he slammed his fist into the pillow. "Why me? Of all the jerks in the galaxy, why do I have to be the one!" From across the cabin, lights blinked and the familiar computer voice said, "One jerk is just as good as another." That was the last straw! "Shutup! You damned clanking piece of junk!" Brother! That was just what he needed. It was then, in his anger, that suddenly the solution came to him. Hours later, the new makeshift control panel was set in front of the viewing window. Through it, he watched the darkness and distance at last swallow Dwarf #. Inside the cabin it was dark too, except for the new control panel. As Jason stared from the viewing window, he wondered if he would start to miss that smartaleck computer. Then he smiled. Nope, he wasn't going to miss it one bit. And he was sure that both it and the voice would be very happy back on the star, spending endless hours entertaining each other. And best of all, he was free again. There was no doubt about it. If he had to name one man in the service who really liked his work, the name was Jason. The best in science fiction comes from walker You'll find the best in a new series of science fiction novels published in handsome hardcover editions. The Walker series features major new novels by established writers as well as classics you will want for your library. Ten titles are now being published. j wo new nove  S Norman Spinrad is a novel of raw energy and punch that makes a radical departure from traditional science fiction style. April # is an abrasive and entertaining satire of politics and society. April # Walker and Company H? # Fifth Avenue, New York Eight classics -- now in hardcover The Whole Man by John Brunner, Jan. # The Watch Below by James White, Jan. # The Midwich Cuckoos by John Wyndham, Jan. # The Space Merchants by Frederik Pohl and C. M. Kornbluth, Feb. # Brain Wave by Pout Anderson, Feb. # Oragonflight by Anne McCaffrey, Feb. # A Case of Conscience by James Blish, March # Thoms by Robert Silverberg, March # IF IF  Short Story by bruce McAllister Everyone agreed that autohumans alt were very well adjusted... 'T'he dashboard fights were red, yellow and white teeth, bared suddenly in a smile when the radio crackled and headquarters announced: "Autohuman #, S-#-#! Armed robbery seventh sector. Biturb, thought to be Fordam model Light Year , metallic green, license ing hand-rasers, proceeding west on Freeline #, dangerous." Lt. Grabe Massel smiled back at the dashboard. As headquarters continued with a repeat of its information and implicit orders, he deactivated two rockets, decelerated rapidly, slipped his police vehicle down an off-ramp and crossed the underpassing street with his multipitch siren screaming and his analogous-colored warning lights syncopated. Stopping finally on the adjacent on-ramp, MassePs car hovered on puffing air-foils, hidden under the edge of Freeline #S, as he waited for the passing blur of the fleeing suspects in their metallic green Fordamerican Motors Light Year . All freeways except the distant Urban Crux I were empty this time of night; the first car that passed was the right one, and instantly Massel activated the prime motor and its five rockets. First the main engine went tarun, tarun, tarun as Massel gunned it. Then opal rear-rocket fires seared the pavement, and Masel was thrown back against the seat as his auto lanced up the on-ramp, wobbled in the air as he overshot the norm hover-level, and finally fell back to a stable airfoil level on the freeway, about a mile behind the Light Year but gaining rapidly. The Light Year was fast, with its twin turbines, but Massel's auto had too many finely developed speed and suspension extras for the race to be fair. In addition, Massel was one of the twenty best coordinated drivers in the force. And, of course, there were the highrange stunners that could fan the entire interior of a fleeing auto, if speed failed to give Massel enough advantage. MasseFs car was a good one, one to be proud of, as he knew each time he heard its confident starting voice. Still, Massel wondered why auto companies built civilian vehicles for that speed. Perhaps in some juvenile hope -- or unconscious wish -- that there would be freeway auto competitions with police or other members of the young public? Massel did not know. He didn't care at this moment; he was moving wonderfully fast now, the Light Year growing larger in his eyes. Excited but confident, with nothing on his mind except an easy chase, Massel happened to look down at the floor. All the webs of colored wires there caught his eye, and for a second his mind allowed him to see the truth of his condition. Then his mind blurred, as his mental block worked for the sePs reality into acceptable terms for him -- terms of youth and of legs, in the poetry of another man who had lived an idyllic youth of legs. Massel saw himself, in a time and place he had never lived in, but with legs he had once known, and the vision had its parallels -- A s always, Massel was running  after someone, along a wonderful path, a path free of dust but still not at all rough to his bare feet. The feeling of Mercurial wings on his feet and head made the eternal chase pleasant. Massel was a fleet-footed boy. To run, sang his mind. To run, to run, to run. In front of him ran a slower, weaker boy, clad in an airy shirt and shorts just slightly different from MassePs own. The path twisted and curved, and Massel flew past the moist moss on tree trunks and the yellow lichens of granite boulders. His precious feet padded against the earth rhythmically, and the earth made thumping sounds in answer to his running. His heart and legs pumped in harmony. The nectar of his blood coursed affectionately through every vein. The boy ahead of him jumped a creek stumbled on the bank, scrambled to his feet and ran on. Massel IF cleared the water easily, soaring into the feathery grass high on the creek bank, reciting as he ran lines of ambrosial verse: "By brooks too broad for leaping, the light-foot boys are laid..." Sailing over a gnarled root, Massel went on remembering: "The rose-lipped girls are sleeping, in fields where roses fade." "Ah..." Massel thought as he ran, "When I was one and twenty, I heard a wise man say..." The breeze cuffed him gently, and he ran, the muscles in his legs flowing golden. He could hear the bells of distant towers, the nearer warbling of wild finches, and the brooks and streams competing with the birds in song. "But there is no rue within my heart now," Massel improvised. The other boy was now only a few strides ahead of him. To run, his mind whispered -- to run, to run. Massel spoke to his legs; they complied and he reached out with a sinewy but boyish arm -- 'T'he "Light Year" decelerated to a halt and the two young passengers sat rigidly in their seats, stunned and thinking murky indecisive thoughts. Ten meters behind them, Massel deactivated the stunners mounted on the front of his auto, then leaned back to watch the two boys quietly. The boys would remain pacific for an hour, Massel thought, and long before an hour has passed, the ped-cops would have arrived to take custody. All Massel had to do was wait, staying inside his vehkJe. But it wasn't frustrating, really. In fact, Massel no longer thought about the matter at all. His mind would not let him. Long ago the frustration had waned -- the past ulcerous frustration of having to wait for the arrival of fellow officers who were physically able to leave their vehicles and walk around. Now Massel had even forgotten that he'd once been prey to that humili -- that frustra -- those confused feelings... Massel sat quietly in fcte auto, thinking of blue skies, pebbled streams and the wispy insects of flower fields -- read about so often that their past existence was present reality -- instead of the web of neural-wires that joined the nerves in the stumps of las amputated legs to the controls of his police vehicle. Staring ahead, Massel dreamed of legs. I n the University-Suburb Riot # three years before -- the same riot that had left his wife and son burnt alive by "serious" demonstrators brandishing flamethrowers -- Massel's legs had been burned, too, into uselessness. Subsequent to the accident, he had requested -- as was most honorable for a dedicated federal police officer -- to be fused with an #uto, made into one of the two dozen or so elite autohumans who served the law with their perfect coordination of human mind and steel body. Nerves joined to wires, to rocket controls, airfoil activators, lights and weapons; Massel could issue ten major commands to his vehicular body with the nerves that had once led to his legs. He liked to think of those commands as his ten lost toes. The operation had been delicate, but successful -- typically successful. "No mental or physical problems in recuperation or psychological adjustment." Typically successful, they'd all said. Massel was contented now, even when his mental defenses dropped for the duration of a thought or two and he had to admit he was an autohuman. All autohumans, as reports emphasized, were very well adjusted to their condition. Sometimes the catheter leading to Massel 's bladder was annoying, when it leaked or scraped him. And sometimes the cramps in his body, the result of too many hours on the freeways, left him few hours of sleep at night, as he dozed fitfully in the dim garages of various police stations. But all in all, Massel knew he was well-adjusted... Or rather well-adjusted enough . His daydreams -- his "defensive fantasies," as he rarely admitted -- were his concern alone, as long as they didn't cause accidents or general incompetency. And his didn't. When he needed -- as he often badly needed -- to bathe and drink of the old poetry in his copy of A Shropshire Lad, that very old book of verse was right there in the glove compartment ready for his  reach and reading. The book had been a gift from a neighbor of the past, a University professor who had wanted the past badly, just as Massel -- No, Massel never thought about all of that. He had once and for all told himself he would forget the professor's name and everything about those years -- the years before the cities began to cover everything, before the universities were "adopted" by the federal government, before his legs were -- He would forget because he had his poetry, much more real than reality, than those days before his legs -- He should have been a Shropshire lad, from a century or two ago. He should have been, so he would forget... As he continued to tell himself, daydreams were his own affair, as long as they caused no accidents, as long as he continued to function efficiently. Chances were that his defense-fantasies would have no negative effects on his performance. There had been only one autohuman who had failed in the history of the fed-police; because of distracting self-pity, that autohuman had let a psychopath IF suspected of two murders evade him on the freeway, and as a result his autohuman status had been reduced to perma-monitor with a life of immobility, HQ radio communications work, and only spectator status in the police world... MassePs thoughts in this vein trailed off when he looked up at the Light Year beyond his car hood and saw one of the two young men -- dressed in a green plastic jacket struggle slowly from the car. The stunner's effect had worn off, Massel realized, and both youths were peanut-brained enough to try a run from the freeway. And the pedcops? Even later than usual... Massel started to activate the stunners again, but his synaptical command snapped off when a police vehicle with two ped-officers hissed and screamed to a stop behind him. One of the officers leaped from the car, waved what seemed to be a hand-stunner, and in a moment had run past Massel, stopped in front of him, and was taking aim at the farther of the two youths fleeing on foot down the shoulder of the freeway. Instead of the bluish waver of a stunner's beam, the ped-officer's weapon issued a boiling line of energy. Massel jerked in surprise. A handraser? Since when was HQ ordering rasers for a situation like this? Then Massel remembered that headquarters had attached the adjective "dangerous" to the report on the two young men out there on the freeway. Because they were carrying hand-rasers themselves, that made them dangerous? Massel didn't think so, and the presence of a ped-officer with a flared-beam raser for a weapon seemed melodramatic. The raser's beam struck the youth, and the aura of melodrams dissolved. The beam had struck the suspect in the legs. Legs! Massel's mind froze, and his throat held back a scream. Legs! In his trance he saw the young man fall on the asphalt, clutching at his legs, which looked wet, smoking and gnarled all at once in the night's dimness. In the continuing trance Massel stared at the ped-officer, an unfamiliar growl escaping his lips. Almost unconsciously, he activated his stunners and focused them -- on the ped-officer, who threw up his arms, flung his weapon away in a spasm, stiffened and fell to the pavement. Full focus was fatal nine out of ten times, Massel remembered faintly. Everything in hie senses seemed faint now. Massel stared at the wounded youth, at the crippled legs, then activated all power in his own body. The engine spoke to him, telling him to flee, reminding him about the autohuman who had erred and was now an immobile radio uperator. But he was trapped, vulnerable within his own steel, unless he -- TTnless he ran. Massel had won lU one chase, an easy race, and now he would be the one chased. But he was fast His legs were strong. For another moment Massel allowed himself to lounge bn the grass toying with a buttercup and listening to the sighs of circling bees. Words like Light Year and Freeline and 'autohuman drifted against the bath of his mind, but dissolved when he thought of bisects instead of buzzing words. To run, to run, his mind suggested. "By brooks too broad for leaping," his mind remembered sagely, reciting. Not far from him on the grass lay a young man, the man he had been chasing, and now this young man's legs Were hurting -- the same people who had hurt the young man's legs now wanted to hurt Massel's. The young man could no longer run on the grass, and unless Massel rose and began running, he too would not be allowed ever again to touch that velvet grass with his own two feet any time he wanted to run, to run, torun, tarun, tarun... In the August issue of IF two, new features begins by Lester del Rey At lost, IF has Its own book-review column  .  each month our favorite Feature Editor will fake a long look at the new books In the field and report on them In his own salty style. New Wave? Old Wave? What to read? Read Lester del Rey every month! Next month: Reviews of Bug Jack Barron and The Left Hand of Darkness . by Willy Ley In the next twelve Issues of IF, Willy Ley -- dean of science writers -- traces the history of our planet. And where will he begin? At the beginning, of course, whenever that #st "How long was 'the Past " Is the first question he asks and answers. Also in this issues Brood World Barbarian by Perry Chapdelaine Posture Of Prophecy by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro a new story by Philip St. John IF IF  Novelette Spork Conquers Civilization When Spork of the Ayor discovered human civilization , he was in for a shock -- hut so was civilization I I As the oldest untwinned member of the Ayorian race, I naturally led the expedition into the Quations system. Since the dawn of Enithra's creation, and the Ayorian type of evolution which followed, the figure-eight-shaped Ayor has been bound by two immutable laws of survival -- twinning and grouping. Each Ayor must create and ac cept a personal commitment toward solving philosophical, scientific or Other types of problems to promotg a his own maturity and descendents. Upon successful completion of the accepted problem, the Ayor twins in a very natural way, producing two children similar in their figureeight structure to the former adult, but each with greatly improved capacity for problem solving in the direction of the accepted twinning problem. Twinning, therefore, provides a kind of radially-divergent evolutionary path for the Ayor. Though my biology was human, I had been adopted as an infant by one of the Ayor and trained in Ayorian ways. After my beloved Erne had completed my neuronic growth enabling me to use Ayorian faculties of telekmass -- mass sensing and teleporting -- I fully expected to twin once. I had resolved my twinning problem which was: "Who am I and what is my purpose?" Since the Ayorian species maintains its singleness of racial integrity by grouping, where each Ayor places the magnetic structure of his being, cup to hemisphere, against another in a very long chain, thus enabling each individual Ayor to exchange personal experiences and the race as a whole to arrive at group decisions, I had had great difficulty in convincing the Ayor that their proper racial thrust was outward, toward the stars. Eventually, however, we overcame the Tepen, a degenerate evolutionary offshoot of the Ayor who had once preyed on us, and opened the door to more progressive grouping decisions. When Toby Randolph, slave scientist from the Quations system, crashed on Enithra, we Ayorians quickly learned to build spaceships by means of both direct action -- use of tools and their products -- as well as indirect action -- telekmass faculties. But once we had left our own little planet to visit others of our system, we encountered the beast of planet two, a mindless entity that had used its irresistible telekmass faculties to strip planets one and two down to their radioactive ingredients and had constructed itself to be virtually three times the size of our own planet, Enithra. T Tsing both Tepen and human  science, we were able to capture, but not kill, the beast, placing it under telekmass shield from the positions of the debris of planets one and two. Now we were free to return Toby Randolph to his own system; I was free to continue my personal twinning problem; and my Ayor brothers, ten thousand strong, were free to plant another culture like ours among the stars. Unlike my Ayor brothers, I am tall, muscular, dark-skinned and have light receptors which are violet hued. My wide-set eyes and athletic build would probably have made many a ship captain from IF human worlds envious, though, to the Ayor, I was still Spork the moron, because of my limited telekmass faculties. Still I was the most experienced Ayorian for the purpose and was therefore chosen as the expedition's leader. We entered the Quations system uneventfully and were approaching halfway to Toby Randolph's planet of Feren when the missile struck. Our very naivete destroyed the ship; for, had we known of the extent to which humans prey upon one another, we could easily have prevented the disaster which followed. Our concept of struggle did not include the idea of direct-action devices, though I had killed the evil Tepen by means of rocks, clubs and fists. Since we did not consider ourselves to be Tepen, to be openly attacked by members of Randolph's civilization without prior warning or provocation, we did not look for their immediate survival threat. Apparently the explosive mass struck our ship and released large quantities of chemical energy which expanded rapidly, vaporizing part I was knocked unconscious; and in the resulting confusion, all the other Ayor teleported themselves to the nearest planet. The explosion split the ship; one half carried the now dead Toby Randolph, and my half accelerated well beyond the sensing range of the Ayor. When I regained consciousness, my legs and arms were shackled by heavy metal bands while my back lay against a hard metallic wall. All around my immediate vicinity I perceived heavily riveted metal sheets. "How odd!" was my first thought. "Is this civilization?" Now free of Enithra's eternally searching plant and animal life, my own telekmass sensors extended their full eighty-mile limit. As in empty space away from Enithra's surface, the telekinetic silence was pronounced; nowhere could I feel the least of telekinetic fingers plucking for self-nourishment. As my senses moved outward from me, I noted humans with metal pellet-accelerating tubes, then other humans in different poses -- some eating with the mouth as did Toby Randolph, some sleeping; others were laying small cards on a table in unpredictable patterns; and many other humans were behaving In strange and unusual ways. All of them were dressed with clothing of similar design and pattern. T reached through several lay ers of metal cubicles, each of similar construction to mine, before encountering the planet's surface. Here I could sense fresh air mixed with fuel exhaust from hundreds of ships -- some posed for flight, some landing, some just resting. Other buildings scattered here and there surrounded the space field. Some contained machinery of a complex nature while others were filled with containers holding unstable chemical or radioactive mixtures. Approaching me I could sense a huge human with coarse, heavy eyebrows and puckered nose. Like everything and everyone else, he was walking with his own muscles. The human at my door opened it, and the newcomer stepped into my cubicle, exploding words at me. "Pig! Where are the rest of the rotting Ventery family?" I didn't know what a pig was, but experience with Toby Randolph's emotional outbursts taught me that this human was angry. Greatly curious now, I listened and watched with my ears and light receptors as well as my telekmass sensors. Without warning, he struck me forcibly across the face. "Pigl Answer me!" Now I had never been struck before. The closest experience to physical struggle was my personal vendetta and destruction of the Tepen. Ayorian children never have need for discipline or punishment, and no life on Enithra would have used direct-action physical force to accomplish an end. I was so astonished I failed to react when he struck me again. IF My mind reached out toward his arms and froze them in the act of reaching toward me again. "Guard! Guard!" he shouted loudly with trembling in his voice. On the appearance of the human from outside my doorway he called, "Kill this dog!" Again, I didn't know what a dog was, but I could see and sense the long metal stick containing chemically driven pellets as it was raised toward me and I knew what "kill" meant. I used my telekinetic faculties, preventing the bullets from exploding. The first man swiveled around and shouted even louder. "Kill the pig before I have you hung!" Now the frightened guard swung his rifle around with intent to crash its butt against my face. I froze his two arms, then stepped out of my shackles to appear behind the two men. "I don't understand what civilization is really about, but I think it is time for you two humans to teach me," I said. II A bout seventy miles away I could sense a strange tree with a moss-like growth covering the ground around its base; here I teleported the two men, their arms and legs still frozen to their sides. All around me was the green color, just as Toby Randolph had stated. The strange tree had green leaves and the covering underfoot was green. Unlike Enithra 's lovely violet and ultraviolet, green foliage was predominant! I let my mind flow through their chemical processes, finding that they too eternally sought nourishment of water, minerals and gases, just as did Enithra's plant life; but there the similarity ended. Energy supplied by radiation from the sun beating directly on the wide leaves caused slow chemical reactions which resulted in sugars, proteins and other life structures. No wonder Toby had felt that all Enithra life moved too fast! "Why, at their present rate of growth, months might pass before they bear seed!" I thought. Insects and bacterial growths, just as on Enithra, could be sensed all around and they, too, followed the slow-direct action processes. Were it not for my two rude hosts, I would have studied these strange forms endlessly. Turning back to the first, I unfroze his speaking apparatus and asked, "Why did you strike me?" "Pig!" he exclaimed. "You are of the house of Venetry. All are dogs subject to immediate interrogation and death by our ruler's order! Let us go and I will see that you die quickly instead of slowly as you most certainly should for this insolent action!" Not yet understanding the motives behind this emotional outbursts, I squeezed a little of his body in sensitive spots until I had worked some rationality into him. It seems that the ship which we had copied was designed by the Venetry family -- the family to which Toby Randolph had belonged. Not only had we copied its silhouette, but also its crest of arms, in our passion for detail. The new ruling dictator of this system Lad given standing orders to arrest, interrogate and destroy all Venetry family members. I gathered this was because of some fear on his part that the family might legitimately lay some claim to the planet's rule. When we naively entered into this planetary system, one of their powerful spaceship had spotted our silhouette and crest, ordered us to change direction by means of electro-magnetic radiation signals and then struck us with their chemical torpedo when we failed to answer their challenge. "VJo words of mine were acceptable to this strangely emotional human. He didn't comment on the matter of my use of indirect faculties; but I'm sure from the way he looked all around from time to time that he was searching for others of my family who might be using direct action devices to cause the new control phenomenon from a distance. From the second man I learned that soldiers were humans who must obey the orders or be killed themselves; otherwise he held no personal animosity against me. "Why would otherwise rational beings wish to leave Enithra for the doubtful security of civilization, as did Toby Randolph?" I wondered. Life, all life, was valuable to Ayorians. Some life killed other life but only for the sake of survival. In the cases of the Tepen and the beast of planet two, we were justified in our actions. But here, in my first contact with Toby's civilization, I had my ship torn apart, was knocked unconscious and was jailed and struck and cursed with the promise of torture and death to come. Civilization was becoming ai great twinning problem for me I Teleporting the two men back to my jail cell, I extended my mass sensor to the maximum and began moving from point to point across the planet in search of my Ayorian brethren. Time and again as I halted at teleportation points, I was able to with the phenomenon of continuous motion. Not only was this true of their plants and animals, but also of the vehicles in the air, on the land and in and on the seas. Though anxious to find the other Ayorians -- who could certainly handle anything encountered here better than I -- I took time to IF study the strange phenomenon. There were monstrously huge cities roughly similar to Tepen vilof humans! The depth and complexity of their machines in application of direct-action principles was beyond our wildest predictions. Tenth, twelfth or even a hundredth generation of tool development was required to fabricate some items which we Ayorians could build only by indirect-action means. "How," I wondered time and again, "could life so limited, moving so slowly in basic accomplishment -- accretion, growth and twinning -- have evolved such tremendously complex equipment?" My greatest shock came when I learned how humans reproduce. Ayorians twin. Much Enithra animal life transports seed to egg by means of teleportation. Here all animal life, including humans, transport seed by means of direct action! XJo wonder Erne, when she first sensed my presence, wondered if I were an animal to be used by Tepens in capturing Ayors; for humans were certainly closer to Enithra animals than to the Ayor. Still thinking of myself as an Ayor, however, I failed to apply the lessons of my emotional shocks to my own twinning problem. I chose food from many locations which seemed to specialize in their accumulation and storage. Night came, then daylight again -- somewhat faster than on Enithra. My muscles, too, responded quicker here than on Enithra, perhaps because of the planet's smaller mass. Eventually I located what I thought to be a decent hiding place where I slept, turning and tossing with strange dreams involving the fantastic phenomenon of direct action. Terrible nightmares occurred of indescribable and equally unbelievable nature. I dreamed, for example, of the predatory Ettel creeping silently up to the voracious Cien and tearing it apart with jaws and paws! The nightmare quality was caused by the fact that the Ettel has neither jaws nor paws and certainly would not creep up to the stupid Cien -- it would teleport the Cien directly into its stomach sack! My choice of a safe hiding place for sleep was an empty building with doors tightly locked. As always my custom, I slept several inches above the floor or platform, which lay immediately before rows of seats; and once asleep, I slept soundly with those puzzling dreams tumbling through my mind. I was awakened suddenly both by my awareness of other humans now surrounding me and by the sound of human giggling and laughter. I opened my light receptors to find the building well lighted and my floating form completely surrounded by laughing men and hysterically giggling ladies. "This is the best performance ever!" one man cried. "Oh, he doesn't have any clothes!" several ladies screamed. I should have known about body coverings from Toby Randolph. Entertainment houses were a new concept to me, however. Needless to say, I teleported myself away quickly and, from the top of their entertainment building, I reached out in search of proper clothing. Greatly surprised, I found specialized buildings devoted to their storage and display. By careful scrutiny I soon learned which pieces to wear and on what parts of my body and in which order. Ill TT'nithra was about six thousand miles in diameter; this planet was somewhat lighter, hence probably somewhat smaller -- perhaps only five thousand miles in diameter. At jumps of nearly eighty miles each -- closer to seventyfive when I figured in my altitude -- it would take me roughly # X # # divided by # X # # jumps just to cover the planet's surface area. It would take around # jumps to make a systematic search for the Ayor. But what if they were five miles under the crust in some hidden cave? Of course, if only one Ayor were I should already have been found by them. But then, what if unknown Tepen-like telekinetic fields were being used in their capture? Though highly unlikely from what I had already learned of this planet and its occupants, I did not dare chance the risk. I compromised by searching the surface area thoroughly -- though I must confess part of my reasoning was based upon pure curiosity about the humans and their environment. Figuring on perhaps # jumps per day, it would take me # days; and as I finished these mental estimates, I began jumping from point to point, stopping long enough at each point to search thoroughly throughout my sphere of sensitivity. Within a matter of several jumps, I detected tiny masses containing chemical explosives streaking toward me. Noting their crude similarity to the one which had struck our ship, I removed their explosive materials and fuel, letting them scatter in tiny pieces over the ground. As my jumps continued, the company of missiles increased in number. Something or someone was learning to predict my probable path of appearance! I changed my tactics then by IF teleporting from point to point along the ground surface of Feren, as the planet was named. Thirty days of thoroughly searching the planet's surface left me with knowledge more complete than I had held of my beloved Enithra. Feren had several large bodies of water; and near each pole, snow covered the surface to great depths. Much land was cultivated and, from overhead, appeared multicolored, checkered and sometimes puckered. G reat sweeps of the planet's continents were devoted to the activities of soldiers and their implements. They were to be found in the cities, in the country, on and in the sea, in specially built thickmetalled ships, in the farm areas and in specially built reservations consisting often of rocket ports and other facilities. Missiles ringed the planet in such a manner that they could easily cover every square foot of surface area in a very few minutes. One military base was unusual because of its strength when compared to the others. Surrounded by thousands of missiles and other unknown protective machinery, its cavern-like building was rooted to the planet's bed-rock by means of flotation apparatus capable of holding the peculiarly dense metal surrounding it all. I didn't find the Ayor. They might have died from the chemical explosive; or with their reaction time, most likely they had teleported themselves from the damaged ship to the other planet. There was only one way to discover the truth. Since I couldn't very well manufacture my own ship, I chose a large, swift looking craft which appeared to be well cared for and of about the same size as ours had been. Though differences in some instruments caused a little delay, I soon determined their function. I moved the ship's guards away from the blast area and accelerated upward rapidly. My mind flickered from missile to missile, telekmassing at least three hundred before their attempts ended. Time had changed the relative positions of the planets with respect to the position of our ship's destruction; but like any Ayorian, I knew exactly where their spatial referents were and where each must now be, relative to one another. In my mind's imagination I could sense the seventh planet in one direction, while fragments of my old ship sped in the opposite direction. Soon faster and more sophisticated missiles tore through space to find me. These were also deactivated as soon as they reached within my eighty-mile telekmass limits. Though I could easily deactivate even those designed for one hundred per cent mass conversion, sooner or later one would be fused to explode near or beyond my eighty-mile limits. If so, not even my Ayorian faculties would save me from the energy release of the explosion. I now directed my ship toward the incoming missiles and within ten thousand miles I discovered an orbiting military satellite. It was gigantic, filled with soldiers and weapons of offense, and could easily have stopped me had the humans known my nature and my limitations. I flung their missile ingredients toward the sun and only then felt free to return to my quest for the Ayor.  s the ship approached the planet most likely to hold my Ayorian brethren, I came within One of the Ayor immediately teleported to my ship, where we greeted one another with great affection and happiness. He guided me to a large cavern hollowed out of barren rock below the planet's raw atmosphere. Fortunately, by their capability of reaching below the molecular level, the Ayor were able to create new molecular forms to provide themselves with food, water and oxygen. My ship was easily transported into their cavern where all the Ayorians grouped to show their welcome and their joy over Spork the moron's return. I naturally felt a strong sense of belonging as I perceived the display hovering above me. Cup to hemisphere, they tied themselves one to another and spoke in unison as was their custom. "Welcome back, Spork!" Their great booming voice bounced from wall to wall within the cavern. My light receptors watered strangely at this magnificent display of brotherhood and warmth. The planet was cold, lifeless and inhospitable; its surface was crystalled over with frozen radicals involving complex and simple hydrogens, methanes, ammonia and water. I could well appreciate the stupendous task which these Ayor had undertaken. Blown compulsively from our ship by explosive, they had teleported to this planet, carved out a habitable cavern and stocked it with life nutrients within a matter of hours. Then, dividing up their talents, some had begun to restructure the total atmosphere of the planet, changing it from a reducing to an oxidizing atmosphere. Others had been busy reconstructing a new spaceship from unrefined materials easily found throughout the planet. To my knowledge, no race before had attempted the use of indirect IF faculties on such a grand scale. Twinning was frequent -- made inevitable by the difficult twinning problems in need of solution when transforming a whole planet. 'T'ime passed while some gains were made on the planet's atmosphere. My personal twinning problem, again, became the dominant theme within my mind. It would be easy to force the people of Feren under our will, but was this way best? Eventually we Ayor would need allies in our search for individual and racial fulfillment. Would a race under our domination and control, like one of their beasts-ofburden, be likely to provide this need? No! It seemed unlikely that raw force was an answer to the problem. Meanwhile, other youthful Ayorians, uninterested in planet transformation, clamored for a different sort of twinning problem. A time of proper grouping came where each shared his personal experiences and desires with every other and I was asked, "Spork! Where does your twinning problem lead?" "To Feren," I shouted to the group overhead. "Will you take more of the Ayor along?" "Yes, if their twinning problem also lies in that direction." "Very well," they thundered together. "Fifty thousand will accompany you in further contacts elsewhere and the other half have elected to stay." "We have concluded," they continued, "that survival considerations require the Ayor to remain hidden as yet. We are too small in number to risk further dangers at this time." "How will we meet the Ferenian humans, then?" I asked. "Your body is biologically human and you know their language. Learn to pass yourself as one of them. Mix with them and learn what you can." The Ayorian grouping wisdom usually impressed me and this time was no exception, although, for a moment, my body felt deep resentment at their reference to my biological similarities. "I accept the suggestion," I answered boldly, "and may all of my brethren have good twinning!" "Good twinning to Spork!" they replied together. IV   tive human detection system and burrowed deep within the ground of Feren, hiding the ship and my fifty thousand brothers. I chose a city at random, to appear on one of its empty streets and begin deliberate attempts to mingle with the population, hoping IF to gain knowledge of their culture and the motives behind their strange and complex behavior patterns. The day was bright and cool in my chosen location. And all that first day, I briskly walked up and down various concrete paths formed within their cities. No one could believe how many details could be telekmass-sensed in an eighty-mile sphere within a city unless, like us, he had telekmass senses. Only the microscopic detail of natural biology could exceed it for complexity! Humans walked into specially prepared buildings to eat. When in need of nourishment, I followed one group and entered where food was automatically served on plastic trays. Carefully watching the man ahead with my light receptors in order to imitate his every move, I picked up a tray. The man selectively dialed food combinations, and I did the same. Just as I was congratulating myself on my successful mimicry, he reached into his pocket and brought out metal coins and pieces of fibrous paper; he handed these to a machine which accepted them and returned similar objects. I had no small metal objects of fibrous paper! The machine blinked and said, "That will be # Odell, please!" Thinking rapidly, I reached into the human's pocket behind me and placed some of his fibrous paper in my right-hand pocket. Toby had told me of their monetary system but I was quite ignorant of its implications. Did I or did I not have # Odell in my pockets now? I withdrew the recently acquired paper, handing all of it to the machine. "Oh my goodness," it said. "I said one point five six Odell, not one hundred and fifty six." It took only one paper-piece; then, as I turned to lift my tray manually as I had seen others do, it called me back to take my change. The rest of my meal was without incident. Since the metal pieces and the fibrous paper seemed to represent important symbols of exchange to these people, I felt I should learn where they came from and what they meant. nphe next day I studied every  place where money moved or was kept, becoming quite perplexed. Most everyone had it. Some humans seemed to work for it while others seemed to store huge quantities of it in protected places; still others handed it out to some for their immediate use, though they appeared to not work for it; one place actually manufactured it, then stored it in other places. I had worked with the Ayor in the most complicated areas. We had overcome the evil Tepen and the beast of planet two, learned of modern mathematics and science and built spaceships and many other things; yet this culture, supposedly similar to the one of my biological origin, was most confusing and complex. Before I learned about schools, I was in trouble again! To move from one city to another, the humans boarded public vehicles which might be any of several kinds of transportation. At each terminal, guards demanded to see a little card from each person before he could board the vehicle. Assuming the card was part of their confusing monetary system, I teleported one from the purse of a female human behind me. I naively handed the card to the guard, not noticing the picture on its surface and its writing which stated her sex, size, weight and so on. The guard took the card, looked at the picture and then asked the lady behind me for her card. Of course the lady didn't have one, so I teleported one to her purse from the man behind her. She handed this card to the guard. The guard glanced at this card, then asked for one from the next man. The activity continued for six more cards while the guard held on to my original stolen card. "All right," he said, "how many of you are together?" Not one of them answered. Politely handing the proper cards back to the right individuals, he grabbed my arm and placed me under arrest. I went along with him since I was most curious about this custom. I was jailed again! It seemed that each citizen had need for identification papers which vouched for the fact that he was who he was and showed where he was permitted to do business which was fully approved by the state. The jail regime was boringly different from my experience with the military, and teleporting outward was delayed only long enough for me to learn this fact. Schools were next! I enthusiastically enrolled in one which specialized in adult education. How disappointed I became when I learned that their rate of learning was slow -- as slow as their green colored plant growths. At their rate, I would need to attend for dozens of years simply to learn two or three subjects well; I could not afford the time. But I did meet books of every description -- psychology, sociology, political science, military science, economics, literature, art, music, history and various strange languages. I had full recall of a six-monthold child's memory of my father speaking to my mother while IF our ship spun toward Enithra. "Though we headed the house of the galactic council, Patricia, the sabotage was inevitable. We may be genetically superior, but to the common people we are still only human. Place the baby in the life container now." Erne, also, had passed down to me the words, scribed on our ship. None of the language books held knowledge corresponding to the written or spoken language of my origin. Economics made much of their monetary system understandable, but I still failed to understand how money came into being. What started the process? Energy, commodities, goods and services could be added to a community; but how could money be arbitrarily created and then arbitrarily placed into isomorphic correspondence with these things? Was the law of conservation of matter-energy somehow repealed? I learned the descriptive language of sociology and psychology, understanding the behavior described therein; but the phenomenon itself remained unreal. The history books, however, were at first my greatest puzzlement. Each book seemed to be written by the same person. I failed, always to reconcile the meaning of the words to actuality. This planet was a military police state but the history books referred to it as the "beneficial democracy surrounding us everywhere." The paradox, as paradoxes usually do, eventually pointed the way toward an understanding of the culture of this planet. Thinking to move faster in my learning efforts, I directly approached a human teacher and asked for an explanation of Feren's political paradox. He called the security police and again I was jailed as some kind of enemy of the state I Though teleporting out of jailhouses seemed to be my chief new occupation, I was beginning to learn! The next three instructors approached by me refused to discuss the subject. But I persisted in my search until, one day, a very elderly human raised his fingers to his lips in their symbol for verbal caution; then, writing an address and a time on a slip of paper, he handed it to me as he quickly left the room. His house was built low, hunkered down between taller buildings on either side. Colored ceramic fibers impregnated in a matrix of concrete provided its decor; it was old compared to buildings on either side and it held space in reserve for his private use, as did all human structures. I activated the door announcer, wondering if I were to be jailed again. He answered, standing tall with his long white hair curling delicately upward at the tips. Behind him, I could see and sense four other people in the house. He smiled in cheerful recognition, his bushy-haired eyebrows raised slightly at the corners during the process. I was invited in and given a soft chair and a cool drink; he introduced me to two human females and two human males. "These are my students," he said. "These are the only ones who have had the courage to question." "I realize that questioning the state can lead to jail," I commented, "but how do you know that I do not represent the police?" "Oh!" he laughed, "I have had much dealing with police states in my life. You were entirely too awkward to represent them. You could not have passed their training programs and remained as innocent as you appear!" V nprod Gerard taught me and I  learned that the Quations planetary system had once been a newly settled, outlying territory of a distant confederation known as the Galactic Council. As the galactic civilization spread, communication and control problems developed for governing bodies. I could understand communication and control problems, since we Ayorians had made our decision to develop independent colonies because of our forecast of similar difficulties. Indeed, our problems were just beginning in that respect. When humans were first faced with the communication and control problem, their science was vigorously applied to breed a special class of human who was just a little more intelligent, a little faster in reflex, a little superior in most human respects. These genetically bred humans were trained to be controlling leaders of far-reaching, sprawling, complex galactic confederations. But even improved biology did not save the union; the solution was applied too late, the genetically bred controllers were not quite capable of the feat, and the confederation was fragmented by selfish, authoritative humans whose only goal was self-aggrandizement and plunder. The great galactic unions fell apart, with each part fought over and split into smaller and smaller pieces until, like this planet Feren, each piece was ruled by powerhungry dictators. Feren's dictator -- D'Cela -- who was certainly as bad as the predecessor who had ruled Toby Randolph's slave-state, now controlled the police and soldiers who mans. IF The many pleasant days "studying under this brave old man also taught me that the paranoic aggressive treatment which we Ayorians had experienced to date was an act of one group and not typical behavior for the whole human race as, for example, the Tepen was not representative of the Ayor. Trod Gerard had once been on the ruling board of Feren; now he was hiding his real activities, though his extreme age gave him immunity of a sort. Probably D'Cela's followers would only kill him outright rather than torture him, in deference to his age. With my Ayorian faculties searching for detail, I roamed the planet at will, checking on his every lesson. D 'Cela's fortress and permanent living quarters were the gigantic military installation which my telekmass sensors had identified to be unique among all of Feren's military bases during my first planetary survey. "If I am to determine the final truth of what I have learned, I must visit D'Cela," I concluded. The nature of his protections was complex, subtle and fantastic to an extreme, indicating that D'Cela was a badly frightened human. I teleported into the nearest empty room -- past the heavy metal shell of the fortress and the radioactive fires raging between layers of this shell, through doublethick layers of diamond-hard carbon embedded in matrices of iridium, platinum and nickel and through layers of other exotic materials, into an empty room. The room's doors slammed shut, alarms rang and gas screamed into the space. Had I been just a trifle slower of reflex, death would have found me then. I teleported the gas away as fast as it spewed inward. My mind raced, thinking over the fanaticism of this man who prepared even empty rooms within his citadel as death traps for the unwary. What if the next room had a death ray instead of gas? The only safe place was beside D'Cela himself, I concluded. I quickly teleported to his side. Upon observing me, he dropped his food, reached for the row of buttons on his desk and then froze like a human wooden mannikin as I telekmassed both his arms and legs. He was fat, corpulent and sloppy -- greasy food still dribbled down his stubbled chin. His hair, uncombed, was brown and short. He dressed in some sort of togalike robe within which I could sense several kinds of weapons which he must have thought to be hidden. Along the sides of his desk were rows of buttons and behind his back were various communication racks. The emblem of his state, a flag containing his clean-shaven likeness in purple and gold, was the only object higher than himself. Otherwise the room appeared barren, probably deliberately made uncomfortable for others. I sensed the supposedly secret escape-way beneath his desk leading downward below the level of the planet's bedrock. And along the walls and ceilchines of various types which, I was sure, must be connected to some of the buttons at his desk. I released his speaking apparatus. "We will talk together. I am Spork of the Ayor. You are D'Cela. Why do you wish to control the planet Feren and its humans?" "Insolent pig!" was his only comment. By now I knew that a pig was a kind of animal found with humans everywhere which was relished for food but abhorred for its supposedly filthy eating habits. Still I wondered why so many members of his tribe greeted strangers with the word. I tightened the muscles about his heart and watched him struggle as he tried to grasp his aching chest with arms frozen tightly to his side. "Now you will answer?" I asked. "What are you? Some kind of devil? I must be dreaming this. Too much liquor. Yes, yes, too much liquor." He took decent recognition of me when I squeezed his heart again. Almost with pity, I listened to his odd tale. As a child he had had a difficult time, always scrabbling and fighting for crusts of bread. Fighting and winning, he pushed his way upward in search of security until he controlled all those who could possibly hurt him. Emphatically he intended to maintain his position, too. "To gain personal security," I said, "you would sacrifice the se"They want to be controlled. People come in two types. Either they are stronger than you or weaker. If weaker, they need the leadership of the stronger. Without this arrangement, great inefficiencies develop and there is waste in resources and energies." He felt strongly about his position as his planet's savior, while his voice worked ever-upward in emotional dialectics. How odd were his rationalizations! Especially so when I contrasted the simple social structure of the Ayor with his. What would D'Cela have thought to know that children as well as adult Ayorians might spend years in random play or experiment solely for personal fulfillment. What kind of waste would he call that? How would he attempt to control it? I could feel his arm and leg muscles struggle again to reach his protective devices when I said, "I understand the Feren people were once free to select their own leaders." "Bah! Rigged elections. Crooked politics." "Still, there was more personal fulfillment and happiness then, was there not?" "The state is the only creation which has a right to fulfillment." Soon I was convinced that D' Cela, though human, was of the evil Tepen personality. Were he a Tepen biologically, I would have crushed him then. But as an Ayorian, what right did I have to determine the fate of a whole planet? Yet, there was a way common to both Ayorian and human by which truth could be known. Determined to put that means into effect, I teleported to the cavern of the Ayor at the same time I released D'Cela from his telekinetic chains. T tossed with sleeplessness as I reviewed the merits and demerits of my plan. In the morning I approached Trod Gerard for his mature human advice. He laughed hugely, as though I were yet an infant -- one with futile, naive imaginings and fantasies and who must be humored out of his delusion. I had forgotten that to him I was still an ordinary Ferenian citizen in search of political and historical truth rather than an Ayorian from another planetary system. Through special lenses I let him view the Ayor, fifty thousand strong, in our hidden cavern below ground. Once he appreciated the subtlety and power of our telekmass faculties he was wildly, enthusiastically cooperative over my scheme. With their long-range sensors, the other Ayor studied the planet's defenses in detail. Fifty thousand Ayorians fanned their telekmass sensors outward in search of explosives, both nuclear and chemical, as well as bullets, death rays, bombs, projectiles and other po ling humans. Their senses swept through the planet with accustomed agility as the assignment itself reflected sober uses for their early childhood days of hide-and-seek on Enithra. All control objects were tossed miles outward. Armed now with only muscle and club, D'Cela's police state ended suddenly. Incapable of stemming the people's vengeful tide, the dictator and his crew barely escaped from the planet Feren and only by chance. I was confident this would be the people's choice; yet, as I had taught the Ayor, conjectures must be adequately tested when using direct-action faculties and this problem seemed analogous. Representative democracy returned to Feren; Trod Gerard was well known, popular with most of the population and a personal friend of most of the elected officials. He insured that Spork and the still hidden Ayor were given all credit though an aura of impenetrable mystery surrounded the means. Nothing we could ask was denied us though our wants were few in number. When I was made Honorary Planetary President I felt a strange sense of emotional tie with these strange humans. "Am I becoming human, too?" I wondered. But an invitation to stay on Feren brought me direct confrontation with my true instincts and we Ayorians returned quickly to planet seven where we were received by the now better than sixty-thousand who were diligently transforming their new planet to suit our tastes. VI  lready we could roam its sur face and breathe oxygen. The planet had warmed while dangerous gases and chemicals had been transformed to something more useful or stored in mammoth underground caverns scooped out by telekmass faculties. To be truly Enithra-like, it lacked only the ecology of Enithra -- IF and the beautiful violets and ultraviolets of our extensive jungle-covered valleys. We covered the planet with human bioforms, including the clashing greens and browns; for it would have been immoral of us to introduce a potentially dangerous planet in the human's back-yard. "Perhaps we could adjust to the greens!" we all sighed. We have since learned that understanding human motives requires more than simple naivetd. We fully expected the people of Feren to regain their political voice, and they did. But D'Cela, who had not crossed my mind since my forcible entry into his headquarters, was far more dever and subtle than I had imagined. He was corpulent, selfish, evil, frightened and decidedly clever; and I, Spork, completely overlooked the paths he could take, given his single-minded motivation. Arl, twin of Dingon, had twinned in turn long ago. I stayed with Arl's twins on New Enithra -- our new name for planet seven of the Quations galaxy -- to watch the process of transformation which changed it from a harsh, frozen environment to one of warmth and comfort. Most humans would yet find the air too thin and cold but with our ability to sort and surround ourselves with denser, energy-packed air molecules we enjoyed the planet's surface at an early period. A certain sign that Ayorian evolutionary progress continued was shown by the increasing rate of twinning, signifying individual fulfillment by specific Ayorian individuals. And each twinned child became more skilled at addressing the peculiar problems of planet tranformation. We were now # in number; I was twenty Enithra years old, nearly twenty-one. Though I almost always stayed on New Enithra, I did travel from time to time to Feren to sit through ceremonial dinners where dull speeches filled the smokey eating halls. And whenever I attended one of these special human events in my capacity as Honorary Planetary President, the luncheons always brought to mind the Imply mammal on my home planet of Enithra. Many of our insects and smaller mammals can predict the path of teleported seed or smaller insect and can therefore arrange to be within its own striking distance at the time of the seed's or insect's arrival. But the Imply had evolved a peculiar oddity. It teleported from spot to spot in fairly random jumps. Whenever it stopped, it unfolded its stomach sack by means of fleshy hinges to about seven times its original size. If the Imply had chosen a sufficiently dense population of bugs, chances were reasonably good that some insects would blindly teleport to the inside of this rather cavernous stomach. As I listened to human speakers and watched their mouths open and close mostly in random, meaningless patterns, I often caught myself wondering just when a bug would teleport to the inside of the big opening! I did enjoy my visits with Trod Gerard; he was old but lively in thought. His knowledge was vast, including both human politics and galactic history. He had already given me the clue which was to lead to resolution of my personal twinning problem but I was not aware of this fact as yet. phough Ayorian divergence by  radial adaptation was an excellent means by which a race could pass on knowledge from one generation to the next -- through increased capability -- it had some defects. First, learned knowledge was a hidden, intrinsic part of the magnetic configuration of an individual Ayorian. Only during the time of grouping could all share equally in this knowledge. Second, an Ayorian like myself, in human form, could not share in the grouping; I had constant need for a personal search in answer to simple technological questions. This defect bothered me constantly and my mind always came back to the recorded and written records of humans. We Ayorians needed objective written records too. Then, after we had planted many colonies throughout the galaxy, these records could serve as quick, accurate means for transmitting knowledge from colony to colony without the necessity for an otherwise impossible physical When I took this problem to the children who were most often receptive to new ideas and consequently more inventive, they naturally made a new game of it. Each child had to invent some recording device which, when used by another, had to hold the most information in a form most accurately recoverable in the least amount of time. Under some rather tough measurement criteria, the one who could do the most would win the game. I watched the beginnings of this new game. One child teleported fragments from a rock, engraving his newly invented alphabet on it, Another used ideograms. A third used binary, then tertiary digits. And so all tried something no matter how cumbersome or awkward it might be. The ideograms won the first round. The one who had invented the alphabet used his same symbols, still convinced they were superior; but this time he engraved messages in microscopic script. He won the second round. The fourth winner reached below the molecular level. His was IF an excellent solution except that one Ayorian, namely me, could not reach this level; therefore he had violated the initial premise that ell Ayorians must be capable of utilizing the communication device. Knowing the game would preceed until an eventual satisfactory solution to the problem came. I left. Life was pastoral for us; all thought of D'Cela and his followers had left our minds. But had I given him further thought, I would have acted no differently, such was the naivete of my thinking. When Erne was killed by the Tepen, I was enraged beyond belief, though no other Ayorians felt emotionally disturbed. Now, when half our thriving colony on New Enithra was wiped out by one missile, my rage grew proportionately; and this time, though still lacking emotion of my kind, the surviving Ayorians recognized this to be a true group twinning problem and they acted accordingly. fTTith great dismay we asked our  selves how such a dangerous missile coming from outer space to the surface of our planet, sweeping through territory well covered by every adult's telekmass sensors, could have entered unsensed. Had the human race developed. Tepenlike telekinetic fields capable of blanketing Ayorian faculties? Our questions were analyzed swiftly in detail, using both facts and logic to give us the answer, or probable answer, which also proved discomfiting. The only direct action instrument known to humans which also involved indirect action phenomenon was the human developed hyper-drive. D'Cela, the ousted Feren dictator, had probably used one of his many escape routes to leave Feren, once the true revolution had started. I had met one military satellite on my way to New Enithra from Feren and it seemed highly probable that other 'satellites of the same kind, as well as war ships and perhaps other Quation system planets, would contain men and the materials of war which could be drawn upon by D'Cela. Though very few Ferenians were aware of our Ayorian faculties and how they had been used in ousting D'Cela; D'Cela himself was well aware of the effects of indirect phenomenon. It was not a weak conjecture, then, which forced us to decide that at least one of D'Cela's missiles had been modified with human type hyper-drives. Furthermore if our conjecture was correct, we could expect others soon. The really big question was how much warning time might we expect between the first appearance of the missile from out of hyperdrive until it struck our planet. Though hesitant to group during a time of emergency -- for the next missile could easily have killed all the remaining Ayor -- reaction time knowledge was so important we accepted the risk. My reaction time when employing telekmass faculties is about one-tenth of a second. My brother's reaction time is about one onehundreth of a second. The missile's reaction time approximated two hundredths of a second. Should other missiles have similar reaction time prior to exploding after reentry to Euclidean space, one would imagine that the Ayor could easily handle the problem, since each adult would have nearly twice the required reaction time. Not so! Full alertness sustained over long time periods is probably difficult for any biological organism and Ayorians were no exception. TI#e could place more Ayorians   on maximal watch, and we did. But how many watchers were sufficient? What were the resources of the enemy -- ten missiles per minute? Ten missiles per second? Ten missiles per nano-second in mass saturation drives? We could disperse Ayorians throughout the planet, and we did. Several more missiles struck at random intervals. It became a nerve-wracking period of spotting a suddenly appearing missile, then teleporting either it or sensitive parts of it away. Then our unsensed enemy became serious; volley after volley came in hundreds, sometimes thousands. Adult Ayorians on watch now were fed by Ayorian children as the constant need for attention and the heavy drains of energy through constant use of telekmass faculties called upon biological conversion of energy in ever-larger quantities. Since I was the only Ayorian whose reaction time was too slow for the watch, I gave my time to thought on our danger and our new fight. And I raged inwardly over the death of sixty-thousand of our brethren who had died needlessly. Wherever our enemy was located, it would be beyond the halfgiven to the adult Ayorian. This meant D'Cela must be in satellites, spaceships or on other planets or combinations of any of the three. Feren could be ruled out. So could New Enithra. This left planets one, three, four, five, six, eight and nine. Planets eight and nine were inhospitable even to the Ayor, so I ruled out those. Planet one could be dropped for the same reason; and planet five was entirely too massive -- unless they had gravity-controlling equipment unknown to us. Hesitant to decide on a negative, I kept planet five on my list. IF From mental visualization of our nine-planet system, since planets seven, eight and nine were too hostile, the defense of the whole planetary cluster -- if that was the original purpose -- would be pulled back just outside of the orbit of planet six. It seemed reasonable that Ferenian defense planners would have wanted as short a supply radius as possible, yet would want to include all of the more valuable planets. They would have been unaware of Ayorian capability to transform the seventh planet. Accordingly there should be stations surrounding the orbits of all the planets stationed at least as far as beyond the orbit of planet six. But how many? In what density per unit of time? Co far as ships were concerned,  they might be located anyWithout data to the contrary, I might just as well assume the exan inch beyond the sensitivity limits of my brethren, though I knew the thought to be foolish. So, probably planets three, four, five and six were involved; probably several thousand satellites swung around orbit six and some unknown number of ships were miles or more. The large salvos stopped momentarily, then began again, and the war of nerves continued. Once, when we fought the beast of planet two in our own system, Dingon had carried himself and me With sufficient nutrients, there should be no reason why the fact couldn't be accomplished again for the purpose of finding D'Cela's military units and destroying them. I estimated that, without my dead weight, the adult Ayorian could probably carry himself and his nutrients about # miles in miles each jump before exhausting his nutrients. The closest satellite had to be orbiting somewhere between fifty not a little closer. Several of the adults volunteered, once I explained my conjectures and plan. They fastened supplies of food to their bodies, then attempted their first jump, fully realizing that should they be unable to find a military unit they would starve in space for lack of energy-giving nutrients. They couldn't make their first jump! The whole planet was ringed by telekinetic energy fields similar to that of the Tepen fields. The Ay-orian, having evolved strictly from indirect action beings, had no other means of propulsion or motion than that of teleportation. They without the use of indirect-action faculties. Now our plight began to look very serious. Indeed, I had greatly underestimated this D'Cela human! While all adults remained on guard and the children continued their feeding duties, I continued my thinking efforts. D'Cela's scientists had somehow converted hyper-drive phenomenon to some kind of telekinetic fence around our new planet. But to what end? Would it satisfy any military establishment of his type merely to fence us so that we could not get to him or he to us? Eventually the cost in labor and manpower required to build and shoot his missiles at us would far exceed their effect. It also occurred to me that he might have developed a net which, like the Tepen's, could squeeze tighter and tighter until all those with only telekinetic capabilities lay prostrate. If so, we were in very, very serious trouble! 'T I he children checked out my conjecture, and it was clearly evident that the net was getting smaller ! I could move through the telekinetic net as I had once done against the Tepen, but how was I to gain solid foothold, high overhead, enabling my muscles to move me through the field? Should I teleport to somewhere near the field and bring the ship there too with the assistance of the Ayor? Blasting through the telekinetic field should be simple, but would D'Clela be likely to permit such an obvious counter-move? Settling on one idea which seemed promising, we reached through the planet's crust to bedrock, carving out a two-mile chunk of irregularly shaped rock consisting mostly of iron and nickel and silicon. Within, we hollowed out room for myself and one adult Ayorian as well as food and water. At the risk of allowing one missile salvo through, all Ayorians grasped the rock containing us, teleporting it nearly five hundred thousand miles away from New Enithra's surface, hopefully in the direction of the orbiting satellites which must ring this system. Teleportation does not obey what the human community calls Newton's first law of motion. The moment we arrived at our predetermined point in space, our vehicle remained motionless with respect to a point which could only be determined from higher telek mass mathematical calculations. The planet of our origin as well as the other Quations planetary bodies and its central nucleus, the sun, crept slowly away from us in a predetermined configuration of relative motion. D'Cela's telekinetic net was sevIF eral thousand miles ahead of our point of entry into normal space. The relative velocity between ourselves and New Enithra was so low it soon became apparent that unless we could build up additional velocity, our efforts would be too late. From our deeply buried hiding place, I telekinetically shredded mass from the front of our vehicle, handing them to Eries, my companion. He slammed them against the rear of our rock, causingg its velocity to slowly increase. Faster and faster we traveled until, by drifting with ever-increasing velocity, we passed easily through D'Cela's telekinetic net. Once beyond the barrier, Eries long-ranging sensitivity was activated and we began our first serious search for D'Cela's ships or satellites. Tories jumped thirty-one times ' before he found the first military satellite. He returned to our false meteorite to collect food and water and to assist me to the satellite's location. I swept my mass sensor through the five-mile station, finding it much like the military fort I had encountered and pacified many months before. Soldiers were eating, sleeping, preparing activated missiles, repairing other apparatus, drawing charts, preparing reports and doing all the other activities which accompany military communities. Not wishing to underestimate our foe again, we surveyed every compartment with microscopic precision. One room was devoted to maps and charts of the Quations system, and it was there I could sense several soldiers speaking through radio communicators. With only my light receptors, I could see several small access doors open along the side of the giant satellite from which several dozens of missiles streamed forth, each rapidly jumping into hyper-drive and disappearing from both sight and my mass sensor. I disabled the radio first as I had once done against the Tepen. Also we disarmed all of the missiles and destroyed any materials which could lend themselves to explosive use. When we teleported into the commander's quarters, where Eries' transparent body was invisible to all but me, I fully expected to interrogate the commander. But D'Cela's thinking was ahead of me again. The commander clamped his jaws together, swallowing a fatal dose of poison the moment I appeared! The chemical acted too swiftly for me to intervene. In the map room I was again too late. Standing orders had been given which prevented us from gaining any usable knowledge. D'Cela had proved himself to be a clever, forward thinking and dangerous human beast! But he had left one weak link in the form of his radio operator, a frightened soldier obliged by order to send a particular coded message every thirty minutes. Though he did not know its purpose, Eries and I were sure that failure to receive his message would signal other satellites immediately to send missile salvos against this one; probably all satellites would be so organized. His signals were allowed to continue while the invisible Eries monitored the actions of all the men and I probed for the most likely location of the other satellites. Were I to build an economical network of military satellites around a whole planetary system, how far apart would each station be placed to insure adequate coverage with a minimum of overlap? 'T'he answer would seem to depend primarily upon the nature of the weapon which would be used, its range and power and the time for travel from any station to the object to be destroyed ; also the percent of desired overlap for the sphere of destruction would be important, reflecting military overkill features balanced against economy. Distance between each satellite was probably computed from the characteristics of unmodified missile drive. Estimating our station to be at approximately # X # # miles from the sun, and assuming a sphere of protective covering # X # # square miles, and allowing for # overlap on every side of each station, this still meant a protective network of # stations! Accordingly we should expect to find our next station somewhere on the surface of the protective sphere's boundary in about four adult Ayorian jumps of half a million miles each. Once these crude estimates had been made I was convinced that D'Cela, though having made correct, shrewd guesses regarding some of the characteristics of our telekmass faculties, still had no idea of the great jumping range of the adult Ayor. We easily found the next orbiting station, where I immediately froze its commander's jaw muscles to prevent his suicide; his eyes bulged as he tried again and again to obey D'Cela's post-hypnotic command. In his false tooth I also sensed the micron-sized radio transmitter which, when the tooth's cap was crushed, also signalled to the map room for immediate destruction of all the maps. When his poison and transmitter were removed, Eries kept watch on all other humans IF again while I moved into the map room. To capture the gigantic beast of planet two in our own system we had placed telekinetic generators on each side of the planet, thus insuring that planet two would always be embedded in the field. Had D'Cela and his human scientists done the same to us at New Enithra? If so, where might the field generators be located? Obviously every satellite engaged in directing missiles to New Enithra would need to know the location and orbiting characteristics of every other, including those which might control our new telekinetic barriers; I found such maps clearly delineating not only the generator's location but also their plan of action which called for closingup the net around New Enithra within a seven-day period; after that, D'Cela hoped to collect nothing but dead Ayorian bodies from the planet's surface. '  on my part, one of the humans removed the explosive head from one missile and re-directed it to land at the surface of the satellite containing the telekinetic field generator. What he did not know was that Eries, invisible to human eyes, teleported within the opening and rode the missile directly to the station, where he easily deactivated the generator. Space was open again to the Ayors and we began the long, dirty task of disarming # stations. By now, D'Cela and his military advisors certainly knew something had gone wrong; but they couldn't know the nature of the trouble. While deactivating these monuments to evil, I had the additional thought that perhaps the satellites were only an outer line of defense. "Maybe, these humans were careful enough to build a second line somewhat further in," I thought. Additional speculation showed the absurdity of the thought. Even for the first line, enormous amounts of time, sweat and energy had been needed to build # satellite stations, each nearly five miles in diameter by means of direct faculties only. Either these humans were fantastically paranoiac or there was even greater danger from outside the Ferenian system than I had been taught. Principles of the modified hyper-drive apparatus showed it to be new and novel; left to our own, we might not have adapted similar principles for many generations. We were considerably more independent of gravitational effects than humans. We could use our indirect faculties to move through the gravity-well easily. For this reason, I suppose we hadn't really given the phenomenon of gravity the attention it really deserved. D'Cela's humans, on the other hand, fought gravity from the moment of their birth. I imagine their and its effects for hundreds of generations before they began to learn its' control. Whatever the case, Eries had found D'Cela's telekinetic field generator to be relatively small, not much bigger than ten by twelve eet. It tapped the gravity-well of the sun. D'Cela did not appear with his ships during our entire clean-up period. No longer underestimating him and his scientists, we methodically completed our deactivation of his military satellites while forming plans of our own. Alert patrols placed around New Enithra would prevent recurrence of our disaster. The children returned to their games while some of the interested adults began study of the D'Cela modified hyper-drive. The remainder of us filled our ship with supplies for a determined search for D'Cela and his men. Vvnce I had felt planet five an untenable base for human habitation because of its steep gravity-well. Now I wasn't so sure. If humans could tap the sun's gravity well, could they not also tap planet five's, making it habitable? Even so, I chose the most rational course of search. First, at Feren, I spoke to all citizens, explaining what D'Cela had attempted. Trod Gerard introduced us to several scientists who agreed to move to New Enithra for joint human-Ayorian study. Turning then to the problem of D'Cela, we found the third planet covered with noxious gases. I dropped the ship into a reddish atmosphere charged with striking lightning bolts while several of the Ayor extended their mass sensors throughout the planet's structure. The ground level was smooth. Gases surrounding the planet were so reactive that its hot flouride radicals had long ago combined with and leveled its surface. Yet, strange as it may seem, deep within the crevices of 'the planet's crust could be sensed a primitive life which, almost as rapidly as our energetic Enithra life, was building up complex plastic-like molecules. They captured energy from the furious chemical reactions, replicated themselves, then grew again. Even here was the beginning of life! The fourth planet was pitted and past meteorites. As soon as we were station we knew exactly where its military fortresses were located. But before any stations could respond to our presence, we reached out to identify and nullify all missiles. Then we drove in closer as though we had no suspicion of the station's presence or the nature of IF their armanent. When we were nearly two hundred miles from the planet's surface, from two separated stations came hundreds of missiles, making our ship the third apex of a triangle. We stopped the missiles in midflight, turned them around and let them drop back by gravity pull only. Each missile struck with only the impact of its kinetic energy, some breaking through lighter roof structures while others simply crushed themselves flat, the pieces sliding off harder sloping domes to the ground. Every other military station was treated in similar manner until, finally convinced of their futility, they flew the white flag of peace. D'Cela was not here; he would have driven his men to death rather than permit surrender even in a hopeless cause. IX nphe fifth planet was indeed a  fortress. Its rotation period was ten hours and fifty-seven minutes, but its diameter was # miles. Surface velocity was fast and its gravity well was steep. Fortunately, like other planets in this system, it had no moons to complicate our search. Two military citadels had been placed on opposing sides of the planet; and overlaying each fortress was a tightly bound telekinetic field which prevented Ayorian sensors from reaching through. Aided by optical instruments, I was able to make use of my normally useless light receptors to find that their construction was similar to D'Cela's headquarters back on dense metal surrounding raging atomic fires, all bolted to planet's bed-rock. I could move myself through the telekinetic barrier, but obviously wouldn't be allowed to come so close. I further doubted my ability to react as fast as his missiles. Easily fending off droves of missiles, we moved closer to his main station, probing it with our own explosive forces. Not since my capture of the Tepen had I witnessed the effects of a physical object barrier. Our missiles could easily have passed through protective telekinetic barriers but they splashed themselves to death against the physical object barrier, exploding prematurely as they hit the newer force field surrounding the station in near hemispherical perfection. D'Cela's station was protected by the ultimate defense -- telekinetis and direct-action barriers. We couldn't touch him and he couldn't get at us. How did he move his missile through his doubly protected network? My light receptors could not respond quickly enough to view possible switching of double fields and our telekmass sensors could view nothing at all. Did D'Cela turn off the physical energy barrier long enough to permit hundreds of missiles through during each salvo? If so, we should be able to take advantage of the time aperture no matter how small it might be. There was a way to test our conjecture! Several of our own missiles were moved to the planet's surface at its junction with the physical object barrier. They lay about five miles from the edge of the fortress, on a slightly inclined plane, each pointing toward the fortress. A small telekinetic force against the missile's rear-most edge kept their noses pressed against the physical object barrier; should this barrier open, even momentarily, the missile would be inside and we would have our knowledge. To divert attention, we cast more missiles directly at the fortress. Their answering missiles appeared at once. Our missiles at the barrier's base tore inward to explode in gigantic bursts against the hypothesized second barrier at about three miles from the citadel. D'Cela had two physical object barriers placed around his fort, synchronized so that at no time would we gain access to him. When his missiles flew to the first, he released that barrier, replacing it be fore the missile reached the second D'Cela was a formidable oppon entl N ews from New Enithra arrived. Ten new twinnings had occurred while solving the puzzles presented by the gravity-generator. Otherwise all was tranquil at home. Oh how I longed for the peaceful Enithra days where life moved simply from puzzle to puzzle, rather than from death to death! My mind just naturally called up the beautiful violets and ultraviolets of Enithra and its many interesting, friendly-seeming life forms, like the delicate puff-ball which floated easily through the atmosphere, reaching its tiny mass-sensor outward to identify and to teleport dust motes and light energy packets to its top nodule. I remembered that some of these would glow like little lanterns or stars in the sky while others would float in darkness, resting. When the sky filled with sweet smelling rain -- and if the rain were thick enough -- the puff-ball often was pushed to the ground, where unluckily it drowned in larger pools of water. Unhappily I thought, "What we need is a heavy rain to pour on D'Cela's fortsl" Such speculative withdrawals from life's real problems seemed remote from the issues, but I had always found them useful and this (Continued on page #) IF An Interview with Robert Bloch Bob Bloch is best known to That Big World Outside as thei author of the crawly Hitchcock movie, Psycho; but science fiction knows him as the author of science-fiction and fantasy stories beyond counting , and perhaps most affectionately as the man who writes most of the SF Convention reports for If. Turn about , they say y is fair play. At the Rio de Janeiro Film Festival and Science-fiction Symposium in March , we lured Bob up to the balcony of our hotel room , turned on the tape recorder and started him talking . This is what came out. I first got involved as a sciencefiction reader in #, with David H. Keller's story, The Revolt of the Pedestrians . That hooted me on reading the stuff. I went through the usual stages -- Jules Verne, H. G. Wells and the current sf magazines, of course. I became socially involved in #. Pd jusl sold my first few stories to Weird Tales, and I was invited to become g member of the Milfraugag Fictioneers. This was a professional writers' group which met every two weeks for purely professional purposes; that is to say, there were only working writers for members. We spent our time plotting stories and assisting various members with hangups. The reason I say it was a professional group was that we had no lady poetesses, no one was allowed to read from manuscripts and no alcohol was consumed during meetings. I don't know how many hundreds of stories came out of the Milwaukee Fictioneers during those pulp years, but I do know that this was where I first met real live sf writers. At that time our group included several men who sold occasional science-fiction stories, plus such pros as Roger Sherman Hoare (also known as Ralph Milne Farley), Kaymona a. Calmer ana Stanley U. Wembaam. Stanley in particular impressed me. He was a very softspoken former resident of Louisville, Kentucky, with a very fine literary background. Oddly enough, although he was then doing spectacularly well in science fiction, his great ambition was to write for Weird Tales . We spent a great deal of time together, aside from the contacts at meetings, discussing the elements of fantasy and just how these could be translated into science-fiction terms, that is to say in reference to the science fiction of #. Both of us were hooked on James Branch Cabell and carried a #-pound Silver Stallion on our backs. So while I tried to indoctrinate Weinbaum regarding fantasy, he in turn gave me an orientation to science fiction. This may be a little presumptuous. I was IS, and he was an old man of #. But I made a very pleasant corollary discovery, viz, that in the scienao#iction world time is indeed relative, and a teenager can explore the same dimension as a mature adult, and meet on the same level. Again it was the Milwaukee Fictioneers that indirectly brought me to the actual writing of science ing and Fantastic Adventures . He called upon the Fictioneers for contributions, and I wrote my first story for him. It was called The Secret in the Observatory. The real secret, ot course, was now it ever managed to get published. During World War II my interests in sf fandom grew, and with it my desire to write farther in the field. Fd say that the majority of the sf I wrote then, and of what I write now, consists of borderline fantasy. My interest in hard science is somewhat limited by my complete inability to understand the workings of any mechanical gadget more complicated than an electric toothbrush. However, my interest in the field of imaginative speculation is extremely intense. As a writer, IVe always considered myself to be primarily a performer. I look upon my work as an effort at entertainment, and my readers, if any, as an audience. This attitude had its roots in my early childhood. My mother had been a social worker in order to support her family, but in so doing had given up a career as a singer; she'd once been offered an opportunity to enter what was then called light opera and operetta work by Florenz Ziegfield's father. He was the head of the Chicago Academy of Music, and a very influential figure in the #'s; that's where Flo got his start. My mother gave up her musical career, but she never abandoned her interest in the theater. As a child in Chicago, we attended regularly. I was more impressed, however, by the vaudeville shows which my father introduced IF me to. By the time I entered high school I was stagestruck. During those depression years I appeared regularly in dramatic productions. I wrote and performed in my own skits and sketches, and rather fancied myself as a comedian. As I look back on it now, my pretensions were funnier than I was. But I did succeed, around #, in selling a few gags to radio comedians Stoopnagle and Budd, and to Roy Atwell who at that time was working with Fred Allen. I also made a few appearances as a master of ceremonies at the kind of night spot later celebrated by John O'Hara in Pal Joey . For three shows a night the performer received ten dollars, a sandwich and a cup of coffee. The agent took #, but he got no sandwich. I had a particular advantage in that my agent could not drink coffee. But, somehow, it wasn't enough to compensate for the long hours and the long layoffs during those depression years. Abandoning my dreams of glory of becoming a top banana in the burlesque wheel, I resigned myself to a fullfledged career as a writer. Unfortunately, for many years the best I could attain was a halffledged career. There were not enough markets for fantasy, and very few outlets for my dubious brand of science fiction. It must be difficult for today's readers to realize that at the time of which I speak there were only three hard-cover anthologies of fantasy fiction in existence, with the exception of an English reprint series which had borrowed heavily from Weird Tales . There were no science-fiction anthologies whatever. There were no paperback reprints, nor, of course, any paperback originals. The situation was far different from that which exists today. Even by the depression standards of income, it was virtually impossible for a fulltime writer to earn even a meager living, unless he also turned out detective stories, Westerns, love stories and true confessions. Many of my colleagues augmented their income by writing for the comic books. So my little entertaining was performed on a very small stage. The economics of science fiction have improved: the status of science fiction has grown; the audience for science fiction has become greatly enlarged. The techniques of writers have advanced. But, to me, science fiction ideally remains entertainment.       k  nrijriinril New subscriptions and changes of IF  Novelette Gon was a creafure without a world , sent to bring destiny to those who refused it. But sometimes destiny takes over...   Cruthers said. The chief of the Planetary Resource Survey team was a lean, gray-faced, grayhaired man with the fussy, precise manner of a bookkeeper. He addressed his question to a tall, redfaced, middle-aged man in field khakis, and to the boy who sat on the bench beside him adjusting the straps that held the flat compressed-air tanks to his back. The lad was sturdily built, though oddly proportioned; his arms were thick and long, his torso short. Tough membranes linked his powerful fingers. His body, clad only in diving trunks, was hairless, the skin a blotchy greenish color, coarse and leathery. His eyes were large and round, his nose almost nonexistent, his mouth small, pursed. He looked too alien to be fully human, too human to be other than a man. "We've come too far to be beaten now, Mr. Cruthers," the blond man said heartily, resting a hand on the boy's shoulder. "Gon and I will carry on so long as the Infinite gives us the strength." "Mostly the boy's strength," Cruthers said shortly, eyeing Gon sourly. "This can't go on indefinitely, Brother Glad." He looked the big, florid man in the eye. "I have the authority to order an end to these swimming expeditions on medical grounds. He's exhausting himself for nothing. It's obvious there's no viable culture among the natives -- assuming any are left alive." "We know they're alive. And as for culture, it's not their fault Terra withdrew support, let them revert to savagery," Brother Glad said in his large voice. "These people are a human creation, no less human for their appearance. It was Terran science that mutated their ancestors, disinherited them and denied them the open air. We can't slough off responsibility for them!" "That was three hundred years ago. My job isn't to emotionalize over what's past, but to look for ways to build the future. Recommending uneconomic ventures on lifeless worlds isn't one of those ways." "We must stay long enough to establish contact and learn their needs!" the missionary said indignantly. "We owe it to the Merieds to do what we can to lighten their lot." "The Meried experiment was carried out in order to open a new world to colonization, to afford an outlet for the human need for a frontier. The test failed. I shall so report." "But we could try again -- " "I can't base my recommendations on sentiment, Brother Glad, however noble. Tomorrow we lift. You may plan accordingly." The Survey chief turned and strode from the room. "Don't despair, Gon," Glad said to the boy after the door had closed. "I'm sure we'll have luck today. Think what it will mean, Gon -- to meet your own people -- " "They're not my people," the boy interrupted. He looked at the stone floor, not at the man. "They look like... like freaks," he added in a mutter. "We don't use that word, Gon!" the man said in a whiplash tone. "You, least of all!" A beige flush mounted the boy's narrow face. "I'm worse than they are," he blurted. "They're at home here, but I'm not at home anywhere! I can't stand sunlight, but I can't breathe water! I swim better than any Terran, but not as well as a baby Meried!" "There'll always be a home for you in the Tabernacle," the missionary said in a gentler voice. "Now come along. It's time." Gon didn't move. "Gon, Gon, have you forgotten every thing we've taught you?" the blond man said in a tone of patience long abused. "Don't you remember our purpose here, your own privileged role as a unique instrument of the Infinite?" "I'm not a unique instrument, Brother Glad. I'm a halfbreed monster that never should have been bontl" "Stop it!" The missionary's voice cracked like a physical blow. "You're forbidden, ever, to voice thoughts like those! There is a purpose in life for every soul born under a sun! Your purpose is here! Now get on your feet and come with mel I won't let you fail -- us or yourself!" Reluctantly, the boy rose and followed the blond man as he strode down across the pebbled beach. At the edge of the sea, the older man halted and turned his face up to the sky. "O, thou who art eternal and without limit," he intoned, "grant this humble creature of thy making the privilege of leading those who were lost and are found again back to the true path of thy wifll" He turned to the boy. "Perhaps today is the day, Gon," he said solemnly. "Good luck." The boy shivered, looking out across the wind-riffled water. He went forward hesitantly until an edge of surf washed about his feet, then paused to adjust the breathing mask across his mouth. As he looked back, he saw Brother Glad's pale eyes fixed on him. He waded on; the chill water surged about his waist, his chest. I'm afraid l he wanted to scream. # don't want to go down into this alien ocean . I want to go home. But instead he drew a deep breath and dived forward into the breaking wave. II O n their barge, anchored ten miles off the lifeless North Continent of the world known as Meries, Cap O'Royle and Pard Kuchel, traders, sat at the cabin table, drinking coffee. For the last IF five hours they had been busy, loading the displays of Terran manufactured goods into the homemade display racks designed to be lowered over the side for the examination of their prospective customers. Small tools, wrist compasses, patent fish-baits, sea-lights, buckles and straps, small hardware, a few foodstuffs; all the items that twenty years of tramp commerce had taught them would be welcomed by the elusive Merieds. There was a sudden splash in the diving well at the center of the barge; a goggle-eyed gray-blue face appeared there, water sluicing down across the coarse, almost reptilian skin. The creature's sphincter-like mouth gaped comically, like a goldfish on a carpet. Water ran from the nostrils, mere slits in the wet-clay sheen of the face. The seaman made a hoarse, croaking sound, waved a webbed hand and dropped from sight as O'Royle, a stodty, white-haired man, called a greeting. "They're here," he said, rising. "I'll take the first load down." "Damn! Wish old Dreen would give a man more warning! Many times as I've seen that ugly face, it still gives me the leaping creeps when it pops up at me that way!" "They're adapted to their environment, Pard, like a bird or a fish. Think of 'em that way and they have a kind of beauty." "Hard to believe they're only ten generations away from normal folk," Pard said. "I heard somewhere a man could still breed with 'em. Picture getting that close to one of their females." O'Royle grunted. He checked his gauges, closed his helmet and lowered himself into the well. As the blue-green water closed over him, the sea-man swam up, his oversized eyes gleaming in the watery light. "Hello, Dreen," O'Royle said, his voice echoing oddly through his underwater microphone. "Good trip up?" The Meried's finny headcrest rippled as he nodded, uttering the gasping, clucking sound that was an all-purpose affirmative. He held out a small pouch of soft, slick-wet fishskin. "I have a few sea-stones for you, O'Royle," he said in his thin, going down for the last time voice. "Not so nice as last time, but big, eh?" The trader squeezed the pearls out on his palm. They were as big as walnuts, but lumpy, an iridescent milky-blue yellow in color. "They're beauties," O'Royle said. He waved a hand at his stock of goods -- mostly small hardware, water-proof power tools. "Take what you like." nphe Meried took his time look ing over the display. Other sea-men gathered around. They had brought their barter-goods with them: nets of rare shells, glassy, polychrome corals, sea fruits mutated from Earthly plants. There were swollen ears of sea-corn with yard-long cobs set with fist-sized kernels, purple oceanberries descended from Pinot Noir grapes, clusters of tomatoids, like great green raspberries; hundred-foot salt-melons which would be flensed like whales and the sweet red flesh lifted aboard in hundred-pound slabs, to be ferried ashore and stored in the spaceship's freezer. The stones O'Royle sold on distant planets, but the foodstuffs he rationed out to himself and Pard over the long years between visits. "Did you know, O'Royle, there is another party of drymen camped on the shore there, half a swim to the north?" the sea-man said. He pointed off through the murky water. "Traders?" O'Royle frowned. "These are no traders. They built a house on the high beach, but they offer no goods." "Maybe they're scientists, a mapping party, something like that." O'Royle rubbed his chin, looking troubled. "They say," Dreen went on, "that there's a man among them who's of the sea, but not of the sea." O'Royle looked at him questiottingly. "You mean a frogman, with scuba gear?" "No... he swims naked in the surf. Yet he sleeps on land. Curious, eh, Royle?" "Half a swim to the north, you said?" Back on deck, O'Royle told Pard the news. The smaller man swore. "Might of known it wouldn't last, having the place to ourselves." "There's plenty here for everyone, Pard," his partner pointed out. "It might be the best thing for the Merieds to build up trade here, remind the government they're out here." "I don't mean that. I just don't want strangers poking in, spoiling things. I like it like it is -- peaceful." "We don't own Meried, Pard. But I'm curious. I'm going to take the flitter over and pay a courtesy call. You mind the store." m A s Gon's eyes adapted to the light level, he was able to see the undulating slope that stretched away before him, its sin face thickly grown with weed of the strange color that he only saw here, under the sea. A cloud of silt rose like a puff of smoke ahead, as some small sea-dweller took alarm at his approach; at once, with a sharp pain, the nictitating membranes that protected his eyes flicked closed -- a reflex never triggered on land. He swam on, out past the second IF bar, angling more sharply downward now. Outcroppings of rock broke the bottom here; the luminous lichens crusting them shed an eerie glow through the water. Small shrimp-like piscoids moved in awkward sp urts among the stalks of sea-cane. Something large and lazy oozed away across the bottom. Gon drew air from his breather, giving the big fellow a wide berth. The first chill had passed; as his body warmed, he swam more strongly, questing through the dim water for the elusive mermen. O'Royle flew north for half an hour, following the barren coastline of the lifeless continent. Behind the froth-laced beach, gray and tan hills rose toward distant peaks of stone, untouched by the faintest hint of green. Only patches of dead trees and sere grasses along the strand attested the three-centuries-gone attempt to transplant earthly soil and flora to the young world. Those, and the remnant of the viaformed humans who had been seeded here. The Lost War had wrecked the grand scheme of which they had been a part, cut off the support and aid that would have made the scheme work. Now with a resurgent Terra again feeling her way into the Arm, the Merieds might benefit from some belated assistance, O'Royle reflected. But, more likely, the sea-men would suffer from the rediscovery of their world. The oceans were rich in dissolved minerals; floating refineries could extract them, discharge the contaminating wastes into the sea. It was standard practice on pre-life worlds, but tough on the Merieds. That was the reason O'Royle had never reported his find, twenty-five years ago. Now, it seemed, the secret was out. He saw the camp ahead, a cluster of pre-fab sheds perched on a knoll of rock above high-tide line. He settled in near a shed; a stocky man in khakis came forward. "I'm Brother Glad," the stranger said, holding out a square hand. "Surprised to see your flier. The others are away, out in the launch." O'Royle listened silently to the other's explanation of the purpose of the Survey Group. "I understand you have a halfbreed in your party," he said when the missionary paused. "I'd like to see him." Brother Glad looked surprised. "There is a lad of mixed blood with me, yes. How did you -- " "Where is he?" "What's your reason for asking?" "This boy -- he's from Terra? About nineteen years old?" Glad frowned. "And if he is?" "His name's Gon O'Royle. He's my son." Glad's face went rubbery; his mouth shaped itself around words as if trying them for size but finding none that fit. "I left the boy in school, back on Terra," O'Royle said. "Why did you bring him here?" Trother Glad made an effort to  reassemble his expression of stern good will. "He belongs here," he stated. "His destiny -- " "He belongs back on Terra, getting an education," O'Royle cut off the other's speech. Brother Glad's expression jelled over. "Gon is here doing what the Infinite shaped him for, what he was born for." O'Royle narrowed his eyes. "He was born," he said grimly, "because a young spacer met a woman in a lonely place, and they fell in love. As for his shape -- Gon's an intelligent boy, a fine scholar. He can lead a useful life -- " "A life of seclusion -- a scientist-monk, a misfit in a dead-end! He deserves a chance to live! Here, he can make a unique contribution. He'll play a role in the Great Plan -- " "Hogwash!" O'Royle cut in. "You're not going to use Gon as a pawn in your game, whatever it is! Now, do you tell me where he is, or do I have to start looking?" Brother Glad met O'Royle's eye. "You may be Gon's father, but he's of age. You've no claim on him now." "And you do?" "To do what?" "His people were disinherited -- denied the open land, the free air -- by the meddling of our ancestors! I intend to undo that wrong -- to bring these unfortunate stepchildren of the human race back to their own world! Gon can help!" v'Royle stared at the zealot. "Back to their own world? This is their world, damn you! They can't live out of water for more than a few hours!" "Perhaps -- but we needn't abandon them to such a fate! They've regressed since their ancestors were left here; they no longer farm; their domestic animals have returned to the wild. They've multiplied, but no start has been made on bringing life to the shore. The experiment, in other words, is a failure. Very well -- these people are doomed -- but their children deserve the right to rejoin their race, to live normal lives! They're innocent victims of unnatural tampering with the Infinite's plan! We owe it to them to give them back what they lost!" "Where does Gon come into all this?" "He's my ambassador to the Merieds. He'll go among them, bring the good news of their deliverance to them, lay the foundation for the program -- " "You sent him out there -- into the ocean?" "Of course. It's his natural eleIF men t. He can go among the Merieds as no norm -- ordinary man could do." "You fool I" O'Royle's voice was ragged. "Why do you think I took him to Terra in the first place?" "To be rid of him, I suppose!" O'Royle's fists were clenched, but he held his voice steady. "Gon looks like his mother -- externally. To normal Terries that makes him a freak, a side-show exhibit. But internally, it's different. He's only half Meried. His heart's not designed to pump under the pressure of more than fifty or a hundred feet of water. And the trace minerals in the water here are wrong; iodine and arsenic and lead can reach toxic levels in his cells in a matter of hours -- if he hasn't drowned by then, or been killed by the local sea-life I" "Wh -- why, Gon's been swimming every day since we arrived; he's suffered no ill effects -- " "He's been lucky." "The locals seem safe enough!" Brother Glad snapped. "They're used to it," O'Royle came back. "Gon isn't. He's led a sheltered life until now. How long has he been gone?" "Perhaps an hour, a little more. But, look here -- " "Did he have a set course, any communication link?" "No set course... he was to swim out a few miles, then cast about. I'm not in direct communication with him at all -- " "I'm going after him with scuba gear," O'Royle snapped. "Do you have a flitter you can take out to search the surface with?" "No -- nothing " "Then stand by on shore, in case he makes it back here." O'Royle turned to the door, giving the missionary a hard look. "If Gon dies," he said, "I'll be back to see you." IV G on saw the Meried at a depth of forty feet, two miles offshore. It was a slim female who appeared before him out of the darkness, her body glowing faintly to Gon's sea-eyes, slightly magnified by the lens effect of the watery medium. Gon halted, staring into the grotesque mask that peered wide-eyed at him. Then the seagirl's small mouth opened, emitted rasping speech resembling the squeaks and chirps of dolphin-talk. For a moment the young halfbreed was baffled; then he caught the rhythm of the Meried speech, which he had heretofore heard only on tapes in a sunny classroom on Terra. "You're the half-man; I've seen you playing in the surf." "I... I'm Gon O'Royle," the boy said. His voice, coming through the specially designed speaking mask that covered his mouth and IF nostrils, echoed and grated in his ears. The rehearsed speech he had memorized against this moment froze on his lips as the Meried swam closer, moving herself effortlessly with small flutterings of her fingers and toes, turning to look at Gon from all sides as she circled him, carrying a light spear gun in her hand. "You are like a sea-man and yet... not like," the stranger said. "What is that you hold in your teeth?" "I have to have it -- to breathe," Gon said. "Indeed? Still, you swim well -- for a dryman." "I'm no dryman!" Gon blurted, and paused, experiencing for the first time in his life a sense of shame at his land-dweller traits. "You're far afield," the Meried said. "We seldom swim these waters, The grampus lairs here. I came searching for a strayed swoat, never thinking to find a half-man instead!" The sea-girl's mouth puckered into an expression Gon recognized as a smile. "I want to talk to you," Gon said hurriedly. "I have news for you -- wonderful news. You haven't been forgotten -- " "I must go. Will you come with me?" the stranger cut in. "Many will want to see you, to welcome you. We hoped you'd venture out to us in time." "You've been... watching me?" "We're curious folk. We welcome any diversion." Gon hesitated, remembering Brother Glad's instructions: to deliver his speech, arrange a second meeting, then return. But it had been so long with no results. What if this creature swam off and never came back? He owed it to Brother Glad to cement relations now, while he had the chance... "Yes, I'd... I'd like to come." The Meried flashed her strange smile again, turned with the flexible grace of an eel and was gone into the murk. Gon paddled hurriedly after her. Half a minute later the Meried reappeared. "You must learn to use your strength in the water," she said. "Not to waste it in floundering." Swimming slightly ahead, she led the newcomer out across the edge of the continental shelf and down toward the lightless Deeps of the Continental Sea. U sing the wet-jet strapped to his back, and following the beam of his sea-light, O'Royle covered three miles in a quarter of an hour, alert for a signal from the locator on his wrist, set to resonate to a moving body of the mass of a man. Twice he picked up traces that led him into detours; the first time a great mollusk scuttled away at his approach; the second, a wild sea-dog approached, fangs bared in its seal-like snout. He drove it off with a beam of sound from his 'caster. He could have killed it as easily, but the scent of ma mmali an blood would have attracted a pack of its fellows. The Terran transplants had thrived on native fare, multiplied hugely in their adopted home; but their taste for red meat clung in instinct, even after three hundred years of sea-life. Now the offspring of strays and runaways had claimed huge volumes of the sea as their own, in competition with their former masters. O'Royle pictured Gon, alone and helpless, surrounded by sea-carnivores with the smell of Terran blood in their nostrils. Grimly, he swam on. It had been a long time since he had cruised here, in the purpleblack waters of Meries. Not since Gon's birth, in fact, and the death of Onide, his mother. And now -- so close to the day .when Gon would have been graduated, able to take a post with the University Foundation -- a meddling fanatic had come along to destroy the whole careful structure built up over two decades of hard labor. O'Royle switched trains of thought again, concentrated on his compass readings, heading outward toward the sea-dty where he had met and wooed a sea-woman once, long ago. lose behind his guide, Gon  threaded his way down, down, toward a faint, water-diffused glow spreading out below. Dark spires of rock swept past to left and right; the Meried woman turned and twisted, rounding craggy, weed-grown buttes, sailing under fragilely balanced arches, plunging downward at last into a near-vertical cavern mouth to emerge in an amphitheatre of terraced stone asparkle with pastel glows. Only then did Gon realize that he was in the ruins of one of the undersea cities built three centuries before for the sea colony. Suddenly, Meried faces were all about. A cacophony of alien voices called greeting, asked questions, made observations. "Back so soon, Seryl? And who's this with you?" "Mama -- why is he a funny color?" "Hello, young one. What's that across your mouth?" "Does he really sleep on the rocks?" A large, scar-faced sea-man with a tattered crest was before Gon, looking at him with eyes that seemed covered with a grayish film. "Who are you?" he demanded plaintively. "What are you?" "I'm Gon O'Royle," he said, and again his prepared speech deserted him. "I want to be your friend," he stammered. "I remember," the old man said. IF "Onide. She bore a son to the dryman. He took the infant away." "Yes -- you must be the son of Onidel" a woman said. "How like her he is -- and yet how strange he is." "So, so. Strange things happen as the world grows old." The aged Meried drifted away. Gon looked around bewildered at the slim, swift shapes gliding in and out of the rounded doorways -- or were they windows? -- that reminded him of the toy castles in fishbowls -- and of sunken ships, drowned sailors. Abruptly, the sea seemed to close in on him. He sucked air frantically through the mouthpiece, feeling terror rise in him. He struck out In what he thought was the direction of the passage through which he had entered, but found only a slimy barrier of volcanic stone. Seryl called, but he pushed his head, the thud of his heart, banging his head, bruising his hands as he scraped and fumbled, forcing his way through narrow passages that opened only into other pockets, ending in a dark cul de sac. He tried to orient himself, but the infallible sense that had always before told him in which direction to move seemed numbed, amputated. Even the phosphorescence was gone from the water. For an instant he thought that he was blind; then he caught the infinitely faint glow of his own skin. "Seryl #" he shouted, and almost lost the breather, choking as a jet of water sprayed past the mouthpiece. He doubled up in a paroxysm of coughing. He recovered -- weak trembling, with a pounding pain in his head -- to find himself in total darkness and total silence -- alone and utterly lost. V Tnside O'Royle's scuba suit the pressure and the cold were as oppressive as a filled grave. He wasn't as young as he had been when he had first swum here -- not by a lifetime. He realized quite suddenly that he might fail, might not find Gon might not even find the sea-city of the Merieds. But he had to find it. He knew its location; his compass would lead him there. And there he'd find his old friends and tell them what had happened, enlist their help He swam on, tiring, but driven by the mental image of Gon, alone and in danger, needing him. He was taken by surprise by the trio of sea-men that were suddenly around him. "Benoroyle!" a familiar voice came scratchily through his helmet. "Is it you indeed?" "Dreen -- thank God you're here I It's my son -- the half-man you told me about. I've got to find him!" The sea-men conferred. "The lad visited City," another Meried said. "But we sensed he was discomfited. So we left him alone, until he should feel more at ease. He soon departed, perhaps to meditate in solitude." "Departed? Where did he go?" "Who knows, Benoroyle? No one was so discourteous as to follow him." "You damned fool! Gon's no Meried! He'll drown! Why the devil didn't you help him?" O'Royle cut off his outburst with an effort. "I'm sorry, Dreen. Will you help me find the boy?" "As you wish, Benoroyle -- but the sea is wide, and filled with perils -- " "Don't treat me to any of your Meried philosophy now! Just find Gon before it's too late!" A lone in the labyrinth, Gon felt  a sudden swirl of deeper coldness around him. Something was moving nearby. He backed water, retreating into a niche in the rock. Then a familiar twittering voice spoke: "Gon -- where are you?" "Seryl!" The stab of relief that went through the boy was as sharp as physical pain. "Seryl! Get me out of here, back to the surface!" "Gon, you've hurt yourself! I sense blood in the water!" He felt her touch on his arm; seeing her face hovering before him, her immense eyes wide, he wondered how he had ever thought her ugly. "Please -- help me...!" He fought down the rising panic. The air in his throat seemed hot, stale. He was choking, drowning. He had to get out. He caught at Seryl's arm, but it slipped away. "Come -- This way!" she called. "I can't see you!" He choked on the words, struck out blindly, smashing face-first into sharpedged stone. Then her hand gripped his, tugging gently. "Poor halfman. You're blind; I didn't know. Come now, I'll lead you." It seemed to Gon that for an endless time they wormed their way through a serpentine route, up, down, twisting, turning, at times forcing their way along passages barely wide enough to pass, then swimming a few strokes until the way narrowed again. Attempting to squeeze through a vertical crevice, he stuck fast. The girl tugged at his hands, uselessly. "No good. I'll have to go back." He tried to retreat, found that he was wedged equally tightly against withdrawal. He attempted to turn his body, succeeded only in cutting his hide on the sharp edges of volcanic rock. "Gon -- careful!" Now there was anxiety in the girl's voice. "The sea-hunters roam herel If they scent blood... " He fought silently then, in blind IF panic. He was only dimly aware of the girl's voice calling to him, of her hands trying to hold his flailing arms. "Gon -- they're here!" Her cry cut through his panic. He went slack then, hung, half in, half out of the fissure, watching a thing likg an eight-foot otter or beaver, black and sinuous, armed with a tiger's jaws. It cruised past at a distance of ten feet, stroking with broad, seal-like flukes, studying him with wide, dark-glistening eyes. Gon recognized it as a mutated dog, a remote descendant of a retriever or herder brought from Terra centuries before, now grown large, wild and fierce, the ancient subservience of its kind to man forgotten. With sudden decision, it started in, jaws gaping. Seryl set the butt of her spear gun against her shoulder, followed the patrolling carnivore as it shot forward ancl fired. A plasticfeathered quarrel sprang out and sank to half its length in the side of the predator. Instantly, the creature whirled to bite at the shaft, fighting like a hooked tarpon; but as the smoky blood wafted from the wound in a widening veil, a second sea-dog closed; in a lightning snap it opened the dying animal's throat. Through water abruptly opaque with an ink-black stain, Gon caught glimpses of swiftdarting bodies that struck, and struck and struck... 'T'ime had passed. How long, Gon didn't know. But his air was running out. Where was Seryl? How long had he been trapped here? How long since Brother Glad had bade him farewell on the shore? A long time -- too long. His air was gone. Here he would gig -- The flash of teetE brought him from his state of shocked reverie; a creature half agaig as large as the sea-dog Seryl Sad killed had swept past him dose enough to buffet him where K lay, wedged in the rock -- a porpoise, once a mildmannered friend of man, here on Meries driven by the competition of competing mammals into the role of voracious killer, hungry for the flesh of warm-blooded seabeasts. The killer-porpoise turned, patrolling back past him. Beyond it Gon saw others of its kind, gliding like grim torpedoes in formation. In a moment one would turn on him; with one snap of those spikestudded jaws, it could take off his arm -- or his head. Better to drown than to be torn to pieces. He reached, found the quick-release latch, and slipped the tank harness. The mouthpiece was ripped away as, with a twist and a kick, he tore free from the harness, pushed away from the rock, and shot toward the surface a hundred and fifty feet above. 'T'he pain struck O'Royle with out warning, like a blow in the chest with a spiked club. He gave a single gasping grunt and doubled over, tumbling as the powerful water jets drove him erratically on. He managed to switch off power and hung, afloat now in a sea of agony wider than the Continental Ocean. Time passed -- how long, he had no idea. Slowly, he became aware that he was drifting, head-down, in black water. Fire still burned in his chest, but it was a bed of embers now, not a roaring blaze. He moved, mid pain lanced through his rib-cage. Slowly, awkwardly, like a crippled insect, he straightened his body, began to move slowly toward the mile-distant shore. Gon was still out there; but Dreen and the others would find him. He had done that much, anyway. Now the trick was to reach shore alive, to be there waiting when they brought the poor lad back. G on's lungs were bursting. How far above was the surface? He stroked, stroked, eyes bulging, jaws locked, chest straining. It had to be close now; only a little farther. His vision was blurring, shot through with red; his lungs ached, his tissues screamed their torture. Hold on, hold on -- Without his conscious volition, against every conscious instinct for self-preservation, his mouth opened, his lungs heaved convulsively. He felt the icy pressure in his throat, the burning pain as the sea water flooded his straining lungs -- and blackness flooded his mind. VRoyle did not suspect his er ror until the rush of inchlong crustaceans swirled around him like a flock of startled birds. Then they were gone -- and a vast gray-black body hurtled after them. "Sea-bull," O'Royle grunted. "Deep-sea critter. What's it doing this close to shore?" He glanced at his compass -- and then he saw. He had been holding steadily on course -- directly away from shore. By now he was five miles at sea, in the dreaded Deep, where the big hunters roamed, looking for red meat. VI on floated in a pink mist of pleasure, wafted from cloud to sunset cloud on a perfumed breeze. At his whim, he sailed effortlessly across the pillow-soft sky, drifted with the gentle tides of air, plunged downward in a dizzying swoop, soared upward again, faster than thought... "It's the dream again," he thought. "The dream of flying. But this time it's real. I can fly. I always knew I could, if I could just remember the trick..." He flew on, savoring the total freedom of the spirit and body that expressed itself in soaring high above all mundane cares. Brother dad, Cruthers, the others, seemed remote, unreal. There had been a thing he had worried about; what was it? It seemed so far away now, so unimportant. Something about a role he had to play in the Plan of the Infinite. Gon almost laughed aloud at the innocence of the conception: that the power that had evoked galaxies from nothingness should require the intervention of a bor to bring about its purposes... Brother Glad had wanted him to go to Meries, the water-world where he had been born, where his mother had died in the birthing; to go down again to the sea, seek out his kin, begin a movement to bring them back to Terra. Back to Terra! This time Gon laughed, surrendering himself to the inexpressible grotesquerie of the idea. Back to Terra -- to live in goldfish bowls, and flatten their noses against the glass, begging the aquarium visitors for crumbs of fishfood? Or to waddle about the dry, dusty streets of the cities, wearing water-filled helmets? Or perhaps to swim glumly about the polluted Earthly seas, on the alert for the mile-wide pelagic harvesting craft. Once caught in their water-sweeps, they'd windup as organic fertilizer for hydroponic farms! Gon blinked the tears of hilarity from his eyes -- and as he did, he became aware suddenly of a coldness and a pressure against his ribs. He moved to relieve the discomfort and felt a sense of vertigo that made him flail out with both hands to bring himself upright. Smoky, gray-brown opacity swirled before him. He waved it away, was looking out across a rolling expanse of dun-colored hills, densely grown with tall, willowy plants that waved in the light but irrestible wind-like images reflected in the surface of a pool. The light that shone from the green-black sky seemed to waver, rippling through minutely discernible changes of intensity. It was a weirdly alien landscape -- and yet, in some indefinable way, a comfortable one. But -- where was he? He now remembered Brother Glad's invitation to accompany him, the preparations for the trip, the long, eventless weeks in space... And the landing on the deserted shore... and the building of the camp... The rolling, phosphorescent sea. Himself wading into the cold, alien surf, Brother Glad urging him on; his first swim, the let-down as no Meried came swarming to meet him, the discouragement, the suicidal thoughts. The one, last try that he had privately promised himself to make, after which -- IF A fter? What had happened? Had he been successful or... ? He remembered a face, narrowbluish-green, wide-eyed, pursemouthed, sleek. Seryl. He had met her, and -- With a convulsive movement, Gon fought to tear free of the remembered trap -- and drifted effortlessly forward across the waving grass-plain beneath him. Vm flying , the thought crashed into his mind. But that was a dream . But l  m not dreaming now; Vm awake -- and still Vm flying . He moved his hands and at once his body responded, angling up and to the left, drifting as lightly as a gasfilled balloon. Drifting. But not like a balloon; like a fish in water. Not flying, swimming. Not breathing air... but water. Gon drew a deep breath, felt the healing coolness flow in, flow out again. He was breathing under the sea. He had lost his mask and mouthpiece, and he was still alive. Lost in the wonder of the miracle, he drifted with the swift current toward the deep sea. Consciousness was a light pow ered by a failing battery. As his awareness flickered dimly alight again, O'Royle knew that it was hopeless, that he would never reach the distant shore. He throttled back the wet-jet with a motion that sent new pangs stabbing through his chest, and hung motionless, his body a broken vessel filled with pain. Pressure waves beat against him; a thing vast as a whale loomed out of dimness, tossing him like a chip in its wake. O'Royle saw the great scarred flank slide past him at a distance of less than three yards, saw the strokes of the mighty flippers that could crush a man with a careless flick, unaware of his presence. But this monster was aware, he realized as it turned and made a second pass at even closer range. This time he saw the coiled proboscis, the narwhale-Iike tusks, the spined ears, the great swell of the crested shoulders as the grampus -- a mutated Indian elephant -- swam straight at him. O'Royle half expected to see the jaws gape to snap him up, but at the last moment, the behemoth rolled, showing a flash of the shark-like teeth studding the wide mouth, modified for flesh eating, not by man, but by natural mutation, here in the adopted environment of Meries. The giant meat-eater was confused by the sterile scent of the protective suit, O'Royle knew; but in another moment, satisfied of his harmlessness, its appetite would assert itself. The next pass would be the last. He watched it move away, turn with a lazy flick of its modified limbs, hover, measuring him for the kfll. He saw the trunk go up, the jaws open. As helpless as a newborn infant, he waited for the final charge.   ty of sea-men to the place where she had left Gon trapped, the sea-wolves were still patrolling there; but of the half-man there was no sign. "They've taken him," Dreen said. "We're too late." "No -- I smell no blood in the water -- only a trace from his earlier wounds," Seryl retorted. "He must have freed himself." "Look -- his breathing apparatus," another Meried called, retrieving the tank and attached mouthpiece from the sea floor a few yards below. "Without this, can he live?" Seryl uttered a choked cry. "Poor half-man! He wished so much to live..." "We must find his body," Dreen said. "There's a vicious current here; by now the corpse will be far away -- if the carrion beasts have spared it," a man said. "Why venture into dangerous waters on a futile quest?" another questioned. "You needn't come; but I must try, for the sake of my friend, whom I failed." Dreen swam away, Seryl beside him. The others hesitated, then followed. 'T'he sea-man hailed Gon from a I distance, calling in the strange, penetrating under-sea voice of his kind:" "Sheer off! A hunting grampus near! " Gon hesitated, confused by the warning and filled with an urgent desire to talk. "No time to waste," the stranger called. "It's occupied for the moment with easier prey; a dryman, poor fool, weighted in his trappings like a mud-castler!" "A dryman?" Gon queried; but the other was gone in the murk. A land-dweller, about to be killed by a sea-hunter? Could k be Brother Glad looking for him? But the missionary owned no scuba gear -- and no one else in the party would have reason to come here. Cautiously, Gon advanced. A pair of sea-men flashed past him at the edge of visibility. He went on and saw a group of Merieds hovering in the water ahead. As he swam up to them, one, a small, slender female, turned -- "Gon!" Seryl called sharply, coming toward him. Beyond her, Gon saw through an obscuring haze of roiled silt a shape as big as a twenty-man copter, gray-black, horny-hided, massive; flippers bigger than a man's body stroked #  IF restlessly, holding its position. "You're alive -- arid -- " Seryl broke off as Gon swept past her, his eyes on the man-shape drifting in the water ahead. A dryman, as the Meried had said, bulky in a vermilion-dyed dry-suit with a bubble helmet, through which the features of a square, lined face, whitehaired, blue-eyed, were visible. The face of Captain Ben O'Royle. "Father!" Gon shouted. At his cry, the Merieds whirled; the giant sea-thing gave an ill-tempered thrust of its flukes, turning ponderously to face the new disturbance. A big sea-man came toward Gon as if to intercept him, but he veered aside from the out-stretched hand, shot to O'Royle's side. "Father! Run! Quick!" Gon grabbed at the older man's arm, only then saw that his face was slack, his eyes half-shut. Gon whirled to the sea-men, ignoring the hovering mass of the sea-elephant, which had swung again to face him. "Help me! He's sick!" "Gon! Beware! He'll charge!" Seryl called. She darted forward, raised her tiny spear-thrower, fired from the hip, once, twice, three times full into the monster's face. Gon felt the tiny shocks, saw the darts leap to imbed themselves in the expanse of horny hide above the back-curled trunk as the seaelephant, head lowered and tusks foremost, rushed at him. XT' or a frozen instant, time seem ed to stand still. Gon hung motionless, peripherally aware of the staring eyes of the helpless seamen in the background, of the unconscious, suited man beside him, of the curious translucence of the water, of the thumping of his heart, watching the bulk of the leviathan grow as it hurtled straight at him. Then, at the last possible instant, he moved aside -- not a wild leap for safety, but a calculated sidestep, just sufficient to avoid the forward-lunging tusk of the monster. Instantly, Gon was in behind the spined ear, and with a powerful thrust of his legs, astride the horny back, grasping the umbrellaribbed dorsal fin, flattening himself to the curve of the great beast's shoulders. The grampus fought. It plunged, rolled, flailed backward with its trunk. The blows, impeded by the density of the medium, thudded across Gon's shoulders like strokes with a canvas hose. He pressed himself closer, digging his fingers into the tender membranes at the base of the back-flattened ears, his knees locked along the main rib of the fin. Over and over the grampus rolled; once it slammed the mucky bottom, and for a moment Gon was immersed in murky ooze; but he held his breath, and a moment later his mighty mount was streaking forward at a speed that sent water sluicing back around the clinging rider like the backwash of a torpedo. As the animal's course veered left, Gon twisted at the tender tissues of the left ear; the grampus angled back to the right. Gon hung on grimly, saw the color of the water changing, lightening. Abruptly, the sea-elephant broke water with a Niagara-like smash of surf; it crashed back then, splashing and hissing, to surge ahead another hundred yards. Then it was humping itself through the shallows like a monster walrus, spewing water from its trunk and mouth. Air was like fire in Gon's lungs as he ejected the water from them. Coughing, he clung, waiting for the blow that would smash him flat; but panicked, the sea-elephant had forgotten the weapons of its trunk and its bulk. It could have plucked him free, trampled him, rolled on him. Instead, it floundered up the beach, bellowing and snorting. Gon blinked away the film of water from his eyes and saw the survey camp a few hundred yards off to the left. He saw men running out and heard their shouts. Brother Glad appeared, rifle in hand. As Gon raised himself to shout a warning, the creature changed course abruptly, hurling itself toward the sounds. Gon's knees slipped from their grip; the grampus skidded to a halt, lowered its head, and tossed. Gon felt himself going up and over, then falling, to slam against the gravelly sand with a stunning impact. Above him the big bull lowered its head, lunged. The needletipped ivories gouged into the sand on either side of Gon; the horny hide of the immense head rasped him, bumping him as the beast strove to gore him, but was fended off by its own tusks. There was a sharp car-rong as a heavy rifle fired nearby. The monster grunted and keeled forward; its weight came crushingly on Gon. The sky went dark, and far away voices shouted through the failing fight. B rother Glad sat smiling at him. Beside him, his father, pale but recovered, smiled too. "They told me what you did, Gon," he said. "You saved my life; but more than that, you taught them something." "It was a stroke of genius to think of driving the beast on shore," Brother Glad said. "The Merieds never dreamed of such a thing." "Too bad... you killed it," Gon gasped. There was pain in his chest, in his arms, in every bone of his body. "They... could be tamed... used..." "It's not dead, just drugged," the missionary said. "Our fellows helped the sea-men to winch it back into the water. When it wakes it will be in harness." His smile widIF ened. "They have great plans for capturing more in the same way." "Gon, the doctor examined you," O'Royle said. "You have a few broken ribs, but you'll be all right. But the curious thing is -- water respiration seems to have had the effect of metamorphosizing your metabolism. Your reflex times, muscular tone -- everything -- has become almost double the Terran norm -- or the Meried norm, for that matter." "It seems to be just what Captain O'Royle called it -- a metamorphosis," Brother Glad said. "It seems that a Terran-Meried hybrid has to spend his infancy on dry land," Gon's father said. "But as an adult, he becomes a true amphibian, breathing water or air equally well." "Mr. Cruthers wants to offer you a job," Brother Glad said. "As a liaison man with the Merieds. Your father and I, between us, have convinced him that the Meried trade is worth developing." "You'll be more than a liaison man," O'Royle put in. "You're a hero to the sea-men -- and to a seagirl named Seryl. They want you as their official ambassador. They've offered to build you a palace, half on land, half under water, and to stock it with the rarest delicacies of the ocean -- including a girl named Seryl." There was more; Gon listened, his thoughts afloat on a sea of pleasing fancy to rival the green ocean he had at last discovered. I came here as a man without a world," he said when the others fell silent at last. "Now I have Dune Messiah by Frank Herbert I The City That Was the World by James Bllsh The Kinsolving's Planet Irregulars by A. Bertram Chandler IF  Short Stor i I Only one could survive the Games! them, I watched the tall, endless Finally we arrived at the Telebuildings rush past the police Games Court, a large white buildground-car. They were glassy ing that reached upward to disapstructures, colored in rainbow pear into the night sky. The officer brightness, slipping by one after who had presented me with the ofanother. The people walked the ficial papers now ushered me out night-streets and moved into neof the car, up the steps into the oned clubs happily, as on every building. night of their lives, unaware of the The walk through the Courthard fact that they could be snaphouse was a flashing series of dark ped away to the Tele-Games, withimpressions that disappeared alout even a moment to say good-by most immediately. I was pushed to their loved ones. into a small courtroom, invisible I, Charles David Travers, a death hanging from its clean white peace-loving Citizen of the #nd walls. Century, had been arrested for The gray-faced judge stared some unnamed crime, to appear in down at me as if made of cold steel, the Tele-Games of March #th, " Charles David Travers, for # # Judgment sir," my escort announced like a robot. "Case #-# #, of Los Angeles Major, California." The judge looked at me. He said, "You are brought before the High Court for treason against the State. How do you plead?" Every muscle knotted in disbelief. "Fve done nothing. This is a farce. You have the wrong man." The judge asked, "You are Charles David Travers, son of David Jay Travers and Joan Marianne Travers? You have a mistress by the name of Julie Thorson? You work at the International Message Service as a file clerk, Code-#B? You are a collector of old books, adventure novels, and are in the habit of spending hours in libraries and in your one-room bachelor apartment reading? You are the Charles David Travers, who wrote an article in college defending the concept of the Tele-Games as a logical means of controlling the world population and relieving our civilization of criminals, of giving the Citizens the kind of violent entertainment they so highly desire? An article which had its tongue-incheek subtle double-meaning -- obvious, now in light of what we have learned about your true activities." "Yes, but -- " "Then there is no mistake," the judge announced with finality. "You have been the companion of Julie Thorson for the last six , months, working with her in an attempt to overthrow the government. You are guilty of first-degree treason. Miss Thorson has confessed." "It's a lie!" I shouted. "Silence! You will appear before the National Tele-Games of March #th as a Man-at-Arms to do battle to the death. In the event you should be the sole survivor, you will be freed, never again to be sentenced to the Tele-Games. So is the fair judgment of the State's Justice." Dazed, I followed the guard out of the courtroom and down a series of corridors. He stopped before two large iron doors and presented an identification card to the guard there, who allowed him to lead me into the inner chambers of the Central Los Angeles prison. I was led to a narrow door marked #. The guard ordered me into the cell with a wave of his arm. The door closed behind me like the clanging of some morbid trap. It was a voice that cut into my agony. It was filled with a mixture of surprise and pained horror. "Charlie!" All the emotions rushed up in a flood, choking all senses like invisible fingers blotting out sanity. Whipping around, I saw the tall woman who had been my mistress these last months. But I couldn't equate this beautiful creature with the one with whom I'd shared silent walks through building-top parks or companionable evenings in my apartment or simply dancing gracefully in the dim night-clubs, chatting happily over a dinner and cocktails. This couldn't be that same woman I Madness clutched at my brain. There stood the creature that had placed me here. Through the emotion of wild fury I looked at her voluptuous body, draped in a green glowing cloth that wound around her slim waist and angular hips above firm thighs, dropping like silken waves about every beautiful and loving curve of her body. She didn't seem real, standing there in the drab coldness of the cell, her arms stretched out in offering. Sanity snapped like a thread. "You lying tramp!" I yelled, leaping. My hands gripped her silken white throat; my fingers squeezed the air back into her lungs, trapping it there. Maybe it was the look of surprised horror in her large brown eyes that jolted sanity back into my shocked brain. My hands lowered as I slowly stepped back. "Those lies... I've never done anything against the State." She clutched at her throat, gasping for air, and finally said, "Charles... believe me -- I didn't tell them anything  So help me God!" "Then why?" I managed, confusion defeating all hatred. "Why do they have the Games? Why is a person sent to his death for voicing, objection against the State? Or getting drunk in public, or being late paying his bills? There doesn't have to be any logical reason!" she blurted. "But they had to have some reason!" "You were my companion. Oh, Charlie, believe me, I'd do anything to get you out of this!" Her eyes pleaded with me to forgive her. They blurred with moisture and then closed, tears running down her creamy cheeks. How could I hate her? She had been created for love. And I knew she returned my love. Looking at her I felt a flood of overwhelming emotion. Helplessly I folded an arm about her waist, gently raised her chin until our eyes met. And as I looked at her, reality slipped away to become a fantasy of love. "Oh, Charlie, thank God!" she breathed. "I was afraid you wouldn't understand! Or forgive." After that the insanity of need overwhelmed all other considerations. There was only my sensations and Julie's form. Some time later I was aware of Julie moving from me. I sat up and asked, "How'd they pick you up? Why?" She shook her head. "They brought me to the Games Judge and announced that I was guilty of treasons against the State, senIP tenced me to the Arena and brought me here. The next thing I knew you were in the cell. That's the whole truth, Charlie." She shrugged. "We're living in the most terrible Police State mankind ever devised. In our grandparents' day it was different." I merely nodded, aware she spoke the truth. Yesterday I would have refused to believe. My own grandfather had told me that in his youth there were television shows of violence, but they were plays written by fiction writers, performed by professional actors. Violence was the keynote. Then sporting events became more popular than drama, because of the real violence. It was a logical step to take hardened criminals, already condemned to die, and let them fight to the death for the home audience. Freeing the winner always promised a more exciting battle. With universal peace, an overcrowded world, unemployment and depression, the development of the Tele-Games became a natural evolution. Now it was an international institution that fed the greedy public with the bloodviolence it so craved. People were killed. But they were other people! That made the difference. It might have been only a couple of hours or a day before two uniformed guards stepped into the cell and ordered me out. I was taken into a small room where several rows of chairs were facing a blank wall. As I sat, the guards flanking me, the door opened and five grim-looking officers stepped in; four seated themselves directly behind us and the fifth, a Major, stood in front of me. "You, Charles Travers, have one way to lower the sentence against you. Placing you with Miss Thorson was a waste of time; therefore, we will show you part of the recording of her interview." He then sat. The room darkened and the wall glowed into shimmering blue life. To all appearances, it disappeared to reveal another room beyond; in reality, it was one of those huge Tri-D screens. The major was standing in front of Julie on the screen. "You've been seeing Travers for months. What is his connection with the underground movement?" "I can't tell you." "Miss Thorson, you don't seem to realize your position." "I'm fully aware," she spat out. "We don't give information about our activities." The major nodded to one of his companions who held a small steel box. "This will give the information we want." Julie's eyes flashed toward the box and then jerked back to the officer. Her shoulders sagged as she announced in a cold voice: "Charles Travers is my contact. He got me into this. I don't know anything else." The screen went dead and the lights snapped on. The real major stepped in front of me. "The rest of the information's classified. We used the Brain-box to check it out. There's no reason for you to deny connection with the Underground Nationalist Movement." Sweat broke out over my body. No matter what I claimed, they wouldn't believe me. The major said, "Just tell us who your contacts are." I shook my head. "I don't know what you're talking about. She was lying." The major nodded an done of his assistants stepped forward with a Brain-box. I looked at the mental probe and then shrugged, remaining silent. One of the men damped a small band on my forehead. The man holding the box pressed a button and reality blacked out... Then the room snapped back into place. I blinked and looked at the major. It seemed as if a great, terrible pressure had been lifted. The major frowned, grimacing in puzzlement. "It would seem Miss Thorson lied -- or one of you has been conditioned." A gnawing cut at my stomach. "How could I afford conditioning? Only the Government has the machinery for that!" I stood, rage tensing every muscle. "There are ways. If you are a member of the underground, there would be ways." The major laughed. "But it makes no difference. You have been sentenced -- even if wrongly -- and it will be carried out." Violence snapped sanity as he turned. I leaped, grabbing his flabby throat. A great feeling of power came over me as I gazed into his reddening features; his eyes were popping out and his tongue was convulsively struggling for air. Then I felt the other men clawing at my arms and body. Something hit the back of my head, but I didn't release the major's neck until another hard object slammed once more at the base of my skull. I had awakened in the blackness of a cell hours before, unable to see anything. It was a small place with little room for my six feet to stretch out. There wasn't any bed or covers, just hard steel to sleep on. Time passed slowly; then guards came to take me to a huge chamber packed with over a thousand people, locked behind large barred doors. I was standing there for some time before a gentle hand touched my shoulder. I turned to see Julie. Her face was white and drawn, her lips thin, pale trembling lines. "I... had to lie," she stammered. "The cell was tapped." I tried to feel the hate that should be inside me, but it wouldn't IF come, jno emotion at au aiiected me, "There's nothing we can do about it." "I have to make you understand what you're dying for." She hesitated, then pulled me aside, away from the guards. "I was arrested trying to make contact with a man. I had to lie to save him. He's very important." "What's his name?" She shook her head sadly. "I can't tell you. You might use the name to save yourself." T started to argue the point, then shrugged. No matter what, I'd be sent into the Arena -- to my death. The chances of survival were reduced to zero. Yet there was still hope as long as I lived. I found myself reviewing all the major combats I'd witnessed in the National Events. They were Woody battles between inexperienced citizens armed with clubs, rapiers, broadswords and spears. No modern-day weapons were allowed for fear they might be used against the guards or the cameramen who were lodged just above the fighting area. The Arena was surrounded by an army of Games Police with weapons that could cut down every occupant of the Arena at a moment's notice. I'd seen, in viewing countless Games, that many people stood frozen in fear, letting themselves be killed. Others, more realistic, would keep outside the range of the battle until it narrowed down to a lew combatants. This I hoped to do. After that, if I survived, I'd try to join the underground movement. But it was useless to tell Julie that; she wouldn't believe me. The two of us stood together, holding hands. Finally we were ordered out through a corridor in single file, to another larger room lined with armed Games Police. There we were handed primitive weapons for the Event. I was given a small short sword, like the ones the Romans had used in battle. It was light and made of strong steel -- unlike Roman weapons. It was the thought of personal survival on which I focused as we were herded like a mass of dumb animals into the confines of the Arena. At that point something unexpected happened to me, like a cutting off of all sensation. It was a sharp mental shifting, a release from fear, as if a switch had been pulled, disconnecting emotion. I looked at Julie, letting my eyes run along her flesh, but felt nothing. It was as if I had suddenly become a zombie, without any desire other than the want to kill. I automatically swung the short sword in the air in front of me. My huge arms flexed as I stood there in the middle of the Arena, surrounded by fellow citizens, awaiting the command to kill. Then it came. A loud blast of horns. My sword swung Into the skull of a man standing next to me. I didn't wait to let others defend themselves. The short sword moved, cutting into arms, chests, heads and necks, creating a bloody passage of death until a mass of bodies were cluttering my passage. Then I was facing a tall man carrying a huge broadsword. He swung the weapon right at my head. Ducking to one side, I whipped the point of my blade toward his chest; it cut lightly into the flesh, drawing a thin line oi red. He swung again, a slicing blow at my stomach. With speed and skill I shouldn't have possessed, I leaped in close and rammed the short sword deep into his gut, twisting with sadistic delight. Withdrawing my sword, I turned and dropped the edge of the bloody blade into a woman's skull. The weapon wrenched from my hand locked in the bony tissue of her head. Turning, I picked up the broadsword from my fallen male antagonist of a moment before and swung it in a circle through the neck of one man and across the chest of a woman whose body sliced open, the insides bursting out like a bloody fountain. I made a path of dead bodies before me, like cutting wheat in the fields; then I spotted Julie holding a Scottish broadsword and making a path of death much like my own, without any emotion on her face. There wasn't time to marvel at Julie's unnatural skill; she should have died in the first moments. It's amazing how fast a couple of thousand people will die when all are enemies of each other. It seemed but minutes before less than a dozen people still lived and I found myself without an opponent. My eyes searched the Arena. I spotted Julie still alive, cutting down a tall muscular man with one swing of her blade. She looked savagely magnificent standing there, the broadsword clutched in her hands, long hair hanging loose and flying as she turned to make another kill. But now there was none other than myself. It seemed strangely ironic, even fantastic, that it should have ended this way. She rushed at me calmly, a primitive, mindless killer. Her blade swung at my right arm, but merely cut the outer layer of flesh. It was enough to make me accept real danger. Her light sword, built for fast movement, might easily prove superior to my heavy weapon. Instinct snapped my broadsword toward her head. It would be over quickly. At least she would die without much pain, I told myself. But her sword met my blade with superhuman strength. Then IF the point jerked out and flicked at my chest, just missing. Our eyes met at that moment, but there was only a black expression on her face. In the next minutes we exchanged blows which must have given the Tele-Games' viewers the greatest excitement in their lives. We weren't two amateurs battling to the death; we were expert fighters. Where either of us had learned our skill was impossible even to guess. How could I have known the truth? I moved with all the sweeping speed in my muscles, attempting to put a quick end to the duel. It was as if some Fate had made us almost perfectly matched. Each was skilled to perfection; each was seeking the death of a former lover. Then she suddenly leaped forward, the point of her sword reaching for my chest. I side-stepped, using every muscle in my body. At the same time my sword moved in an arc toward Julie's middle. She had been caught off balance, unable to check the forward movement. My blade sliced cleanly across her mid-section. Oddly I felt nothing but relief. It was over. I'd survived. Then I noticed something so alarming that I couldn't believe it at first. Where Julie's body was cut open appeared an odd, twisted mass of wires, circuits and plastic flesh. Without thinking, without wanting to guess what this implied, I collapsed over he rform as if exhausted. My hands turned her body so that the gaping hole was hidden from view. How much this explained! I stood and walked to the Freedom Door, the cameras following my every action. As I stepped from the Arena, I was surrounded by international reporters, eager with questions that I answered until a small dark man stepped up. He said, "Come, follow me." His attitude was so much that I an Official of the Games that I followed automatically. He carried a pass that let us through the guarded corridors and out into the streets of Los Angeles. He indicated a car parked in front of the building and we got in. As we pulled away from the curb and sped hurriedly down the street, I demanded in alarm, "Where are you taking me?" "I'm Julie Thorson's contact," was his answer. "All will he ex- plained shortly." "But Julie was -- " "An android?" He smiled in a strange, almost sad manner. "Everything will be explained." We drove in silence through the streets for half an hour before stopping at a small building in the outskirts of the city. He escorted me into the house and I found myself in a living room filled with people. Afl stood and turned, looking at me. What I saw then scared me far more than anything I'd experienced in the last days. There, standing before me, was Julie Thorson, quite alive and beautiful! I started to take a step forward when a man beside her turned and began to speak. I stood there, stunned. "Von see, Charlie," he said, "we secretly developed perfect androids; we gave them truthful memory backgrounds up to a point and then added a fictional background to bide information that we couldn't let the authorities know about. We had to find out how perfectly they had been made, to see if it were possible to fool the Government Officials. Of course nobody, outside of those in this room, knows about our discovery. And nobody would even imagine such a thing if the evidence were put before his eyes." He paused, smiling sadly, then continued, "You see how valuable this will be in our efforts to overthrow the now existing governments and end the Tele-Games. Agents who have inhuman strength and ability, programmed to know nothing other than the 'instinctive' missions given them. The Brainboxes will reveal nothing. We even had to give our androids sexual drives and a sense of synthetic excitement; the absence of such small things might prove a give-away. That explains why you were able to enjoy a seemingly normal sensual relation with... your Julie Thorson. The experiment worked out perfectly. We couldn't have wished for more." I stood there dazed, shocked into believing what I saw and heard. It all fit perfectly together. "What about me, now?" was my only question. "After you have taped a full report you will be re-programmed," said the real Charles David Travers. S... Will be back in the fall.  # Watch for it on your newsstands.  # IF IF  Feature Oometimes it seems that there's  nothing new under any sun. The first great hyperspace ship from Earth breaks into normal space around Tau Ceti and begins running on , normal drive toward the nearest planet. Then the navigator gasps and shouts to the pilot: "Alien ships coming up fast, sir!" And sure enough, there they are on the screen, operating on the same normal space drive as our explorer. But don't worry; they haven't yet found the hyperdrive, discovered three years before on Terra, and our brave Solarians can easily outmaneuvered them. Or maybe everything looks fine, and there aren't any ships. In fact, our explorers set down near a convenient village of thatched huts and wait for the local chief to emerge, complete with witch doctor and a suitable primitive language. Whatever other ideas are to be found in a great many sciencefiction stories, we can begin jrith convenient intelligent aliens whose culture ranges from that we had a scant ten thousand years ago to what we might turn up in the next century or so. More conservative writers may skip the intelligent aliens, but most planets still have native life, much of it vaguely mammalian and often hostile. axy with life of every sort is an ancient tradition of our literature, dating back to its very beginning in the magazines. It probably derived from the early popular acceptance of the idea that Mars must have intelligent life to account for the so-called canals. When writers got tired of the limits of the Solar System, they naturally carried their plots filled with alien contacts to the stars. At the time, this all seemed hopelessly unscientific, and several scientists wrote some rather snide comments on science-fictional beliefs in the miraculous existence of life all over the universe. Men had once believed that life could arise spontaneously, but science had learned better. Long before, the Abb# Spallanzani proved that many-celled life could only grow from a seed or an egg; and later, Louis Pasteur showed that even one-celled life could not arise from non-living substances. Hence, life was an inexplicable miracle. We had to accept the fact that it had happened once, since we were here; but logic denied any wholesale sowing of miracles and made us unique in being alive. Of course, Svante Arrhenius had suggested that life might be spread from world to world by spores that could Stand even the conditions of space. Bat that didn't help much, though a number of writers used the theory of justification for their aliens. An examination of the rate at which such spores could be spread from star to star by light pressure made the wide dissemination of such life almost as much of a miracle as spontaneous generation on every world would be. 'T'he first crack in the uniqueness of our existence came in # when a Russian biochemist A. I. Oparin published a theory on the origin of life on Earth. So far as I can remember, few stories mentioned this; and even in scientific circles it caused less comment than it deserved. But it should have served as a perfect justification for our desire to have an inexhaustible supply of aliens, bugeyed or not. Oparin's theory not only explained how life could come about here, but made such life almost inevitable in the development of any Earth-like planet. It was based upon the best scientific picture of what our early atmosphere must have been like before life arose. Such an atmosphere could not contain free oxygen. That gas is far too corrosive to stay uncombined. Without plants to break down carbon dioxide gas and free the oxygen, all of the oxygen in the air would unite with other elements in about # years, leaving none for animals to breathe. Earth's early atmosphere must have resembled the gases in the deep ocean of air around Jupiter. There would be methane, a simple compound of carbon and hydrogen, and ammonia gas -- a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen. There might have been some free hydrogen, as well as water vapor, a little carbon dioxide and traces of some IF sulfur compounds. It was a noxious mixture, in other words. Oparin reasoned that the action of lightning bolts striking through such a mixture of gases would cause more complicated compounds to form, among which would be the amino acids that are the basis of all living protoplasm. By #, this became more than a mere theory. Dr. Hermann J. Muller -- under the direction of Dr. Harold C. Urey -- demonstrated it at the University of Chicago. A mixture of such gases was put in a flask and treated with electric current from a carbon arc. The resulting compounds were collected in water and analyzed. To the amazement of those conducting the experiment, there was a very high yield of amino acids In fact, there was even some discussion of using the process for commercial preparation of the acids. The water turned into a pink "soup." And not only were the amino acids present, but it turned out they were present in about the same percentages relative to each other as they were in living tissues. Then it was found that the action of ultraviolet light could cause the process to occur without the need of the electric spark. Given the conditions that scientists are sure must have existed on Earth perhaps three-and-a-half billion years ago, there had to be an enormous production of the basic materials from which life is made. Such substances are quickly detroyed in an oxygen atmosphere; but since there was then almost no free oxygen, they were stable and would continue to accumulate. The shallow seas of that ancient Earth must have been very literally a rich broth. There was no ozone layer (since ozone is a form of free oxygen, having three, atoms per molecule instead of the normal two), and hence no screen to hold back the full ultraviolet radiation of the sun. Earth was one enormous chemical factory turning out amino acids. O parin had no idea of how rich the production must have been. He had theorized that even a few such compounds might combine into a sort of primitive protein if given enough time. But the results of the experiments indicate that there was such a huge amount of amino acids that the combining into more complicated forms must have occurred over and over again. There may very well not have been a single initial life-form, but many similar ones. The shakiest part of the whole thing lay in the need to get those separate amino acids to combine into sufficiently large and complex a molecule. But later experiments indicated that even this problem was not a real one. When collected into a broth under conditions that prevailed in those ancient times, the # different amino acids that form life showed a natural tendency to attach themselves together in long chains. The giant molecules that are necessary to life arise automatically. The only problem would be to prevent them from doing so. By now we know that it is almost impossible to draw a sharp line between life and non-life. The tobacco mosaic virus can exist as a pure crystal, seemingly no different from many other non-living crystals; yet on the tobacco plant it becomes an active virus that shows every characteristic of life. In between it and a one-celled plant or an amoeba there is an almost continuous spectrum. Life apparently didn't suddenly appear; it evolved. Some combinations of amino acids had a greater tendency than others to add more budding blocks onto themselves; semfe of these grew too big and unwieldy and split; and some of these split (reproduced) into two equal parts (hat carried on this greater efficiency. Accidental changes -- mutations -- are frequent in simple organisms, and such changes produced even more efficient forms. For eons, perhaps, the sea broth offered all the nutriment necessary, together with the new "food" that must have been dropping froqi the atmosphere as creation went on. Then some cell added a trace of magnesium from the sea water by some Occident to produce chlorophyl. This first plant began to change the atmosphere by releasing free oxygen. This, of course, put an end to the spontaneous generation of life by upsetting the conditions that had made it possible -- and also destroyed most of the evidence. So far, science has not created life from the raw elements directly. But every essential step has been tried and proved. We know that the only miracle involved in the start of life is to be found in the normal laws of chemistry. We also know now that life must be as common in the universe as science fiction has always assumed. Our current theories and such evidence as we have indicate that most stars somewhat similar to our sun have planetary systems and that each such system should have at least one planet suitable for the creation of life. There is a very good chance that we will find living creatures -- and even oxygen atmospheres suitable for our habitation -- around most of the stars we will explore in interstellar ships. I ntelligence is another matter. The technically advanced enemies or the friendly savages so useful to our story plots are only slightly less improbable today than they were forty years ago. Time is the enemy of our desires in this case. Life began on IF of the planet's existence and has more years by now; there's a good chance that it will be another five too hot and unstable for such life to continue. That means that life will have been on Earth during #  of its existence as a planet. The first vertebrate creature -- some early form of fish -- appeared The first warm-blooded animal may years. And the earliest form of man that we could consider even remotely human dates from perhaps wouldn't consider him much, probably, even beside the most primitive human being our history shows. Stars come in all ages. Some are just forming now and building their planets with them. Others are almost at the end of their hydrogenfusion cycle, after which no habitable planets will exist. And the factors producing intelligence are so complex that we can't possibly guess the time needed for another race. Intelligence occupies such a tiny and uncertain period in history that the chance of finding it elsewhere is almost nonexistent. Of course, we can hope that intelligence, once reached, will continue forever. The evidence isn't favorable; the bigness of the dinosaur and the striking power of the sabertooth vanished before advances none could have foreseen. But maybe intelligence is the ultimate goal of life. Certainly, however, it will not be static. Evolution seems to go faster as we rise higher, rather than haltyears ago would have less in common with us than with Proconsul be still further from "man" of ten thousand years in the future. A primate learned to use his hands and built a brain around them to create us. What will man build it, for instance? When we write about our aliens, we cover no more than our earliest history of a few millennia ago to perhaps not even a century ahead. It is too small a second to consider in the day of a planet. Or so science and logic tell us. We are not unique among stars in having planets, nor among planets in having life. But we're still unique in our particular concept of intelligence. Science fiction is just wish-dreaming, as usual, in having us meet alien intelligences so like ourselves. As usual? We were right and logic was wrong about there being planets around the stars and about life on those planets. I can only hope we are wish-dreaming as usual I Well IF  Novelette Bounty hunting is never for the squeamish. But this Beast was one no sane man could ever kill. I L ong ago, shortly after my mother blood was sluiced from the streets of Changeover and her body burned upon a pyre outside of town, I suffered what the seems a very inadequate word to psychologists call a trauma. That me. To understand this trauma, you should know some of the events that preceded  it. The townfolk came in the middle of the night and took her, decapitated her, stuffed a cross cut from stale bread into her dead mouth, and charred her in fire fed by the bows of a dogwood tree. I was five years old at the time. Those were the days when men still killed, before Hope sprang up as the capital of our galaxy and pushed forth a society where no man killed another man, where sanity ruled. That was a thousand years ago, a century after Galactic War I, before Eternity Combine gave us immortality. And worst of all, that was Earth. The rest of the galaxy was staggering to its feet; Hope was an idea born in brighter minds; and Earthmen were still hunting witches. To hide me from those who Would destroy me because my mother was a mutant who could lift pencils -- only pencils and scraps of paper -- with her mind, my grandparents locked me in a doset of their house. There were smells of mothballs, old rubber, rainshoes and yellowed magazine paper. I could see dark ghosts of wools and cottons hanging all about. And I wept. There was little else to do. On the third day, the witch hunters were certain that I had perished in the fire of the house, for they could not find me and trusted my grandparents, chiefly because they were normal. So it was that on the third day I was brought forth from the closet and into the parlor where my grandmother kissed me and dried her eyes on her gray, coarse apron. On that same day, my grandfather came to me where I sat with my grandmother, his huge calloused hands folded over each other, concealing something. "I've a surprise for you, Andy." I smiled. He took one hand from the other, revealing a lump of coal with eyes a shade darker than the rest of it. "Caesar!" I cried. Caesar was my myna bird, rescued in some miraculous fashion from the holocaust of the exorcism. I ran to my grandfather; and as I ran, the bird screeched in imitation: "Andyboy, Andyboy." I stopped and stared at it. It fluttered a wing. "Andyboy, Andyboy, An -- " And I started to scream. It was an involuntary scream, tom from my lungs, bursting through my lips, roaring into the room. The myna's words were mockings of my mother's. The inflection, though not tone, was perfect. I turned and ran from the parlor. Wings beat against me. Caesar was a stuck recording. Grandfather was running too, but he was not grandfather any longer. Instead, he seemed one of the witch hunters shooting out the windows of our house, screaming faildly for my mother's death. Running through the half open cellar door, I stumbled down the steps, flailing at the hideous wings, the sharp orange beak that tried to be her lips. I locked myself in the coal room while Caesar battered himself to tatters against the thick door. When grandfather finally broke it down, I was on my knees with my head against the floor, unable to scream in anything but a hoarse whisper. My knuckles were raw from pounding them against the concrete, my blood a polka-dot pattern on the grayness. I was taken to bed, nursed to recovery and sent off-planet to an aunt's home in another solar system where men were coming of age faster. I grew up, took Eternity Combine's treatments in the first public group and outlived Caesar, grandfather and all. Years later, at one of Congressman Horner's parties, a psychologist told me it had all been a trauma concerning Death and my new perception of it. I told him trauma was a terribly inadequate word and went off to dance with a particularly beautiful young woman. Tow I was experiencing fear much the same as the fear that day so long ago when I was five and my mother was three days dead. It was the fear of death -- stinking, oppressive, omnipresent. I am always afraid at the beginning of a hunt. It made no difference this day that I had gone on # others; it was this one that was immediate -- and frightening. If I was killed in these jungles, Eternity Combine could never reach me in time to restore me to life. Dying here, one stayed dead. And what for? Money? Certainly, that was part of it. Lotus, Crazy and I would pick up seventy thoucredits apiece when we split the bounty on this Beast. But it was more than money. Lotus was all stirred up by the photos of children who had fallen prey to the Beast. She's soft-hearted for kids and dogs. Crazy? Well, he had a brother who was a bounty hunter too. His brother had tried to bring back this particular Beast, and his brother had never been seen again. It was revenge for Crazy. Then there was blood lust. We didn't kid ourselves about that. In a world where eryone, we killed. True, only animals. But the point is we had a violence-tendency that was missing in most. We wouldn't kill people, but Beasts were another story... I guess blood lust was my major driving force, all stemming back to that trauma. I loaded the last of the cameras into the floater and looked around for the others. "Lotus! Crazy! Let's get a move on!" "All right, all right," Crazy said, stomping down the steps of the outIF side entrance to the guest house. We were staying on Congressman Homer's Earth Ranch until the completion of the hunt. Crazy Horse, since he weighed three hundred pounds plus fifty and was blessed with hooves, did not use the highly polished, slippery indoor steps of plasti-glass. Oh, his full, real name was Jackson Lincoln Puicca, after the famous General, famous humanitarian and famous scientist. But we called him Crazy Horse -- mostly because he was crazy -- and because he sure did look like a horse. Crazy was a natural mutant, not a product of the Artificial Wombs. One day there had been a nuclear war spreading through the civilized galaxy. Several generations later, there was Crazy -- muscular, bright, shaggy-headed, and horsebefainded. He was a valuable man on a bounty hunt. Just as his brother must have been... "Where's Lotus?" I asked. "Out picking berries somewhere. You know her." "You know what about her?" Lotus asked as she lifted over a corral fence, her blue-fog wings fluffing gently as she glided on the breeze. "What would you say of me behind my back, Crazy?" Crazy Horse stomped his hooves, folded his hands in supplication. "What could I say behind your back, pretty one, when you're possessed of such ears?" Lotus settled on the ground next to me. She fingered the delicate, elongated shells that were her elfin ears and looked at Crazy. "Yours are bigger. I don't think I should make nasty remarks about another's ears if mine were distended bladders like yours." Crazy snorted and shook his huge head so that his wild mane covered his baggy ears. "I'm on time, I trust," Lotus said. "Trouble is," I said, putting an arm about her twenty-inch waist and looking at her small four-feeteleven form, "you know damned well we'd wait all day and not be angry at you." "That's because I'm the prettiest girl around," she snapped, her green-blue eyes adance. "Not much competition on an all-male ranch," Crazy muttered. "And you, Crazy, are the handsomest horse I have seen here." She said it so that he didn't know whether to be mad or laugh -- so he laughed. T hat was Lotus. She was cute as Christmas multiplied by Halloween and Easter -- and she knew it, which wasn't always so bad because she pulled her own weight. Aside from being one of the best botanists specializing in postA-war plants, she was our aerial reconnaissance expert since she could fly ahead, land where a floater would never fit, and let us know what was dangerous or interesting that stood in our way. Why a botanist on a bounty hunt? Well, it was true we usually stalked killer animals that disturbed the small towns on the post-war rural planets. But now and again there were plants which were just as deadly. There were those walking plants on Fanner II that latched onto the nearest warm-blooded animal -- often human-type -- lashed roots around it, grew through it all night long, absorbed it and walked away with the sunrise -- a few inches taller and satisfied until darkness came again, which was every nine hours on Fanner II. Thus, Lotus. "Let's get moving," I said. "I want these cameras set before dark." "After you, Butterfly," Crazy said, bowing as far as he could, considering his less-than-human posterior. Lotus breezed into the floater like a smoke puff. Crazy followed, and I went last, dogging the door behind. We had three seats across the front of that tub -- Lotus between us two men. I was pilot. A floater is a round ball with an inner and outer hull, each independent of the other. Thus if you ever meet an eighteen-foot bat, you can have an outer hull beaten to Hell and never feel it inside or let it deflect your course, since the inner one carries the drive engines, I pulled back on the stick, lifted us and set out for the forest jungle that had spread outward from the Harrisburg Crater. The screens gave us a full view of the ugly woods. At the edge were gray-green ferns. Later, these gave way to giant trees that choked the ferns but were equally gray and lifelesslooking. "You haven't said what you've found out about our quarry this trip," Lotus said. "It killed Ralph," Crazy said. "That's all I need to know." "Tell us more," Lotus said, pulling the thin membrane of her wings about her like a cloak. "Tell us all Homer told you." "Mainly, we're the fifth team to be sent after it. Crazy's brother was on the fourth." "The other teams?" Crazy asked. "All together, there were twentytwo in the other four teams. Twenty were never seen again." "The other two?" Lotus asked. "Rescue parties brought them out -- in pieces." Below, the world was gray-green. Five miles into the forest, I set the floater down in a small clearing. Lotus went ahead to check for other clearings and crossings where it might be wisest to rig the cameras and their tiny electric-eye triggers. Chances were we'd get a wide variety of freaks on film, but we should have no trouble picking our killer. From the four hazy deIF scriptions we had, we knew that he was approximately eight feet tall, man-like and damnably ugly. There were a number of mutants that fit the first and last parts of that -- but few of them were manlike. None of the descriptions gave any indication of why twenty-two experienced bounty hunters had not killed it but had been killed instead. Crazy was setting up electric eyes, stringing wires back toward me and concealing them with fine layers of dust. I was rigging the cameras in the rocks and bushes. Both of us had our backs to the same part of the forest. And that was a mistake. II C razy would have heard it first, except that he still had his hair down over his ears, hindering his usually keen hearing. When I heard the snapping and low keening, it was almost on top of us. Whirling, I brought my gun up... And up, and up, and up... Damn, was it bigl Big and quiet, which is a combination we hit more often than you might think. It stared down through the trees at us, thirty feet high, its bulbous belly opening over us like a wet, wicked mouth -- which it was. No long, slow throat-to-stomach affair here. Just open up and -- slurp  Spiders make me sick. This one made me sicker than usual. There were ugly, cancerous scabs all over it, pus-coated hairs hanging heavily from each disease pocket. "Don't shoot yet," I told Crazy. But he didn't have to be told. More than once he had seen these things react reflexively to a shot, leap in and chomp up whatever was holding the gun. A big spider is not so large as he looks; he is mostly spindly legs which can squeeze together fast into a little ball, to drop him fifteen feet in height and let him scuttle in under the trees after you. "The rocks," I said quietly, watching the multi-prismed eye watch me. Very slowly and with grace, we edged our way along the rocks where I had been setting that particular camera. The spider watched, swiveling its strangely tiny head to follow us, a row of fine hairs a-twiddle below its eyes. The rocks were actually the ruins of centuries, tossed here by the Ablast that had leveled Harrisburg, a provincial capital at that time. It was a vast tumble of caves, valleys and mountains of bricks and stone and powdered mortar. Moving a tentative step, the spider settled long legs through the brush with a minimum of noise. It keened a bit louder. We reached a place where the rock broke open tcf form a small valley, closing again four hundred feet away and forming a dark tunnel that led further into the ruins -- a tunnel too small for a beast like this. "Now," I whispered. "Run!" We turned and loped into the valley, cutting ourselves off from view of the spider. Crazy reached the tunnel first. His legs were often an asset when speed was needed. I was halfway down the valley when the spider mounted the one valley wall and looked down on us. The colossal red eyes glittered accusingly. Then the belly appeared, mandibles open and clacking. Crazy opened fire with his vibra pistol, catching one of its legs. The beast drew up the wounded member, twiddling it madly. Crazy fired again and blew off another leg. I ran. The spider started down into the valley Crazy shot again, tearing open the beast's side. But spiders are tough -- and a fist-sized wound wasn't stopping this baby. Also, we had too-hastily overlooked a very important thing: tunnels make nice homes -- for things. Crazy was raising his pistol for a shot at the giant head when a pinkish grub-like creature came wriggling out of the tunnel in defense of its abode, casting off threeinch, hard thorns. One of these struck Crazy's arm and sent him tumbling, his gun lost in the stones. he spider keened insanely. The grub, suddenly a more immediate danger, hissed, arched its back and flung itself forward in spasmodic lurches that were immediately followed by the jerking release of the sharp quills. I ran to Crazy and tried dragging him to the walls where the beasts could attack from only one direction. But dragging three hundred and fifty pounds was just about impossible. I crouched behind Crazy Horse and pulled the spine fro mhis arm. There was a lot of blood pumping out of that arm. I had nothing to stop it with, either. I turned to the grub, looking for a vulnerable spot. Most of his belly was calloused, but he always managed to keep the first two segments aloft. I aimed my vibra pistol there, pulled the trigger and held it down. The worm went kicking into the air, turning over and over, tossing off spines that shot over our heads. He crashed back to the ground when I stopped firing and was very still. But the spider... It was at the opposite end of the valley now, having used the grub's diversions as a chance to find an easy entry. Behind it, anchored to the rubble, was a thin web structure. It was getting ready to snare us. Crazy moaned, kicked a foot and lapsed into unconsciousness again. The spider leaped. All those legs just tensed, and it IF was moving through the air, hitting the ground and running silently. I fired. The shot caught it in the legs, folding the spindly members up under it, and sent it tumbling backwards. It lay still so long that I thought it dead, but finally it stirred, stood, and clung to the rubble wall, watching me. I was mentally charting all possible pathways of advancement for it, trying to anticipate its next move. But I didn't expect the silk to come spitting out like liquid smoke from so great a distance. Lazily, it twirled toward us. The spider could evidently direct two of these lines at the same time, for two of them approached. One struck the wall to the left, curling over a rocky projection halfway up; the second hit at an equal height on the opposite wall, lacing through loosely stacked rubble and welding its hold into a solid position. Then the beast began swinging the lines, wrapping them back and forth from wall to wall, dosing us in. I sat on the ground, braced my back against Crazy and thumbed the controls of the vibra pistol to full power. The web dropped over us, fouling my hand. I had to spend several valuable seconds trying to untangle the sticky mess from the gun and my fingers. When I raised the gun again, the spider had advanced fifty feet. I fired. But the web was so dense now that it absorbed the blast and diffused it, before dissolving under it. I could not dissolve it as fast as the spider could make it. Another filament dropped across my back. Crazy was almost covered. I shot. The web absorbed it. The web dissolved. The web was replaced. The spider was keening more frantically than ever, no longer quiet in its advance. A sticky strand lashed around me, pinning my arms to my chest. Another. A third. I was being cocooned. The gun dropped out of my hands as circulation was cut down in my arms and my hands grew numb. A strand crossed my face, fouling an eye. Crazy was invisible beneath snowy thread. The spider tensed to leap. Ill T otus was no helpless, frighten ed rabbit of a girl when there was danger. Lotus was a girl who came fluttering over the tree tops just as the spider was about to devour her friends and leaped onto the spider without a gun. But she had her knife. She kept it in her waistband, where only the red gem handle showed until she had to use it. I was pinned by the web, watching the hairy black mutant dance #  across the foggy highway it had built when she came into view in the sky and spotted the action. She dipped, swayed with half a second's hesitation, then landed on the twisted semi-shoulders behind the beast's head. She tossed her legs around that neck, riding it as if it were a bronc. It swiveled its eyes, trying to catch sight of her, but the eyes didn't revolve far enough. Just when they were at the apex of their revolution, she drove the silver blade Into the left orb, up to the crimson hilt, and slashed downward. The spider reared. The stream of web fluid ceased abruptly, and the beast danced backward down the inclined silken plane, keening like a thousand flutes gone sour. It staggered sideways like a drunk. I wanted to shout that it might try to roll over on her, but my mouth was blocked with fast-drying web, and I could not move my arms to clear it away. She pulled the knife out and found the second eye with it. The spider flailed and ran at the cliffs, but found it too much trouble to climb out and still bear the pain that was wracking it. Then it rolled... "Lotus!" I screamed. But it came out a choked whisper, strained through the web matting my lips. But she was flying again, her wings beating furiously until they had taken her high enough to catch the low breezes. They fluffed out then and carried her back and forth across the chasm, letting her watch the spider. It died slowly and with lots of kicking. Once, I was sure it was going to blunder onto the web and fall in upon Crazy and me, but it never did. When it was down for good, Lotus drifted into the web, to settle at its edge. "Andy! Crazy!" I tried to call out. The result was a low-key vibration. "I hear you! I'll get you out!" I blessed her elongated ears. A moment later, she began hacking into the web with her knife. In time, she reached me and cut away the fuzz that bound my arms and closed my mouth. Together, we removed Crazy, ready for the worst. B ut it wasn't that bad at all. He was still unconscious, but the webbing had matted over the spine wound, stopping the bleeding. "We'll have to take him back," I said. "The cameras?" "We were only setting up the second one." "You finish," she said. "I checked ahead. Follow the main trail for half a mile and you'll cross six major intersections. That should give us enough coverage to see if the beast uses these trails regularly. If IF you bring the floater here first, I can take care of Crazy." "He may be -- " "He'll be okay. There's enough medical supplies in the floater to fix him up." She was a good nurse. "Okay," I said. "I'll be back in a minute." Actually, it was four minutes, but when I settled the floater down next to the pieces of the web, she already had Crazy uncovered and clean of the sticky stuff. I took the cameras, slung them over my shoulders and set out -- lugging what two were meant to carry. I kept my gun drawn and an eye out for hairy trees... Three hours later, I stumbled back, worn out and showing it. Lotus and Crazy were laughing about something. "Nice way to get out of doing work," I said. Crazy looked up, whinnying that silly laugh of his. "You can have this arm if you want. I'd rather have gone setting the cameras than nursing this." "Likely story." "We'd better be getting back," Lotus said. "Looks like a storm, and I don't want to see what might come tromping around in the rain." It was a heavy rain that gave Fanner II's vampire plants such voracious appetites. "Okay. Can you walk at all, Crazy. "I can manage." "Let's go." O ne day, the men start looking like animals to you . And you realize you are allowed to shoot animals... And you realize you are just imagining them as animals so that you can shoot them and revenge your mother -- and maybe wipe out that entire chapter of your life... Deep down, you think maybe you want to spill the blood of men, spill it and drink it... I must have been moaning in my sleep. It was an old and often-felt dream. I say that I must have been muttering, for when I slipped from the dream to the dark reality of the bedroom, there was a light body against mine, lips on my two, and soft, velvet wings enclosing us in the closet of our souls... The next morning, we went out to collect the cmras. Crazy's arm was almost healed, thanks to the speedheal salve and bandages. We hoped he would be well enough to begin the hunt shortly after noon in the event the cameras had recorded anything. And the camera had. "I don't like it," Crazy grunted as the film loop came across the viewer for the sixth time. "It isn't the ugliest we've met," I said. It stood seven am? a half feet tall and was heavier than Crazy. Two arms trailed the ground, with six-inch claws on them, and there was a set of smaller arms in the middle of a barrel chest. The little hands fiddled with each other, lacing fingers. The mouth was a treasure trove -- if you value sharp, yellow teeth. It had one sunken eye in the left side of its face and an undeveloped socket where the other one should be. "It doesn't even look as dangerous as the spider." "That's what I mean. I don't like it." "Huh?" "I think," Lotus interrupted, "that Crazy means it looks too easy. Anything that easy would have been knocked out by the first team that went after it. It must have something else besides claws, teeth and an extra pair of hands." "What do you think?" I asked her. "Can't say," Lotus chirped. "That would be like stating the cause of death before the murder." "What's the concensus? Should we back out of this one?" They both voted to go on. I smiled and shut off the film loop. "Okay. Let's get started. Crazy, your arm all right?" He peeled off the bandage and flexed it. It was swollen but unseamed. "Never felt better. Let's go." IV   way where the camera had caught him. Lotus took the first watch, and I was halfway into the second when I heard something of more than medium size coming along from the right. Unholstering my pistol, I stretched out behind a heavy row of bushes and waited. My infrared goggles filtered out the night, giving me a perfect view. In a way, I wished it had been dark. This fellow looked a lot more formidable in person than when seen from a camera. The short view on the film hadn't shown the easy loping motion of the mutant. I decided upon his ancestry pretty quickly -- ape. There had probably been a zoo around when the big bang wiped out the city and its suburbs, a zoo just far enough out to be saved. Radiation did the rest. He loped by and was gone in the darkness. I found I was sweating -- yet the wind was cool. I pushed myself up from the ground and stepped back to my previous waiting post. I was in the process of sitting down when I saw, from the corner of my eye, that the Beast had returned and was standing half a dozen yards away, squinting at me. I cursed myself for forgetting the curiosity and cunning of the apes. I hadn't wantstudied him a few more times. Now I had no choice. Suddenly, he started toward me. I brought up my pistol and fired two blue-white bolts at him. But he wasn't there any longer. IF He had ducked and taken off beneath. the line of the brush. He could have been a hundred yards gone or only four feet away. I panicked. That's a bad thing to do in a strange jungle in the dark with a killer Beast prowling around. I started backing up, moving toward a small, cleared knoll where I imagined I would have the advantage of a better view. There was a rustling to my left. I fired, but there was no scream. I backed faster. My heart was throbbing, and the loudness of it seemed to reverberate through the trees. All other sounds had ceased. The fauna knew something was up. I kept backing. Then I found that the knoll wasn't a knoll at all. The infrared goggles were not at fault, for it did look like a knoll, even from a dozen feet away. But it was a lush, cloverlike growth that rose to a height of five feet in the center, tapering to three at the edges of the clearing. I turned to move forward, realizing the Beast was ahead, waiting. If I backed long enough, I would cross the small hill and come into the safety of our camp. I cursed myself for missing that first shot. I was in the middle of the stuff, clover up to my middle chest, when there was one other sound besides my heart thumping -- a thick, guttural snarling. Somewhere, in the dense growth, crouched beneath its surface, the Beast moved. T almost yelled for help. But that would have given the Beast a fix. Now, he was only prowling, but he would come running at the sound of my voice. Or at the sound of my feet. I couldn't move and I couldn't yell, and I damn sure couldn't just wait to be discovered. Aiming where I thought the noise was coming from, I pulled the trigger. A patch of burned-out clover turned steaming and black. Nothing more. It was impossible to tell where in the dense stuff the growling was. Then he leaped! I whirled sideways, spun even further and faster as his wicked claws tore through my shoulder. He crashed into the clover again and did not make a sound. I clutched my shoulder with my gun hand, then realized I would have to keep that hand free and let the damn wound bleed if it wanted to. It wanted to. Ape. Damn, clever, agile apel I cursed him, gritting my teeth against the pain in my shoulder, blinking out tears of fury that blotted my vision. Suddenly, he was leaping again. This time I moved fast enough. He missed altogether. I kept my eyes on the spot his hand disappeared into. Slowly, the clover began to waver as he moved around to the right to spring from a different direction. I followed the movement of the clover until he had positioned himself. I waited. He was foxy but not too patient. He leaped, and I burned him. He fell halfway to me, rolling around through the clover. Now, I had the upper hand. I moved after him, burning off the clover to keep him moving. He stood up to run, and I shot his left arm. He screamed like a kitten at its first bath. Then, abruptly, there was blackness... More like a blur. In that blur, he was charging me, swiping at me, tearing at my side, ripping me up and down... Much later, when the sun was up and the birds were singing, Lotus poured something warm into my mouth and I was waking up to the beautiful scene of her face. Then Crazy spoiled it by sticking his horsey mug into the picture. "What happened?" I struggled to sit up, managed with their help. My head swam, settled slowly and was still. "I shot it Wounded it, anyway. It tried to kill me." "Why didn't you kill it?" Lotus asked. "I guess it knocked my gun away." "No," Crazy said. "You had the gun clutched in your hand when we found you. You must have been holding it when he chewed you up. Then why didn't you shoot it again?" T tried to remember. I could picA tore the blue-white vibra beam tearing open the night. There was some sort of exclamation -- evidently from me -- and I could no longer shoot. It was limping at me, bleeding badly, but I could not pull the trigger. I didn't want to pull the trigger! I explained the memories as I recalled them. "Hypnosis?" Crazy asked. "I don't think so. I wasn't spellbound. Something... something else." "I think we should back out now," Lotus said. "I think we should pack our gear and move out fast." "No," I said, trying to look more chipper than I felt. "We'll get it. I know we'll get it." "But there are other jobs -- easier jobs," she protested. "We've shed our blood for this one," Crazy said. "When you spill your blood for a hunt, you're bound to get the beast no matter what." She fluttered her soft blue wings, looking right through me as only she can do. "It's more than that to you, isn't it, Andy?" "Yes," I croaked. "Yes, I suppose it is. Though I don't know what." Then I passed out. the Beast since, though we were not inexperienced enough to think it had crawled away to die. We decided, instead, that it had returned to its lair, somewhere in the forest, IF to heal itself. We had ceased to speculate about why I had been unable to kill it when I had the chance, for that was not a happy thing to speculate about. There were too many bad dreams in something like that. Leaving everything that could not be carried easily, we struck out with inflatable mattresses, food, water and guns. Most of all, guns. After establishing what our quarry's footprints were like -- humanish, four-toed, with long and wicked nails tipping each toe -- from a set that led away from the fight scene in a limp pattern, we set off deeper into the woods. On the second day of the march, we found where it had fallen and had lain for some time until it found the strength to go on. On the third day, we tracked it to the lip of the Harrisburg Crater -- where the footprints ceased. We stood there on the rim of the vast depression, staring across the table of nuclear glass that the triple-headed super-nuclear rocket had made. The crater, I knew from the maps, was two and a quarter miles in diameter. That was a lot of space. Dotting it were thousands of bubbles of glass. A number of them were broken and led to the maze of caves that lay under the floor of the crater. Apparently, in one of those caves, the beast was licking its wounds -- and waiting. "How can we cover all that?" Crazy asked. "We'll do it," I said. I didn't want to do it. I didn't know why I didn't order everyone to back track, to get the hell out of there. Lotus was right, of course; the reason was more than revenge against a dumb animal. For a moment, I felt like Hamlet on the castle ramparts, talking to a ghost. But that feeling passed. My determination had something to do with that night when I could have killed it and didn't, when I almost let it kill me. And why? Why had it killed twenty-two others? "I guess here is as good a place as any," Lotus said. "Let's make camp here." She swung a hand around, indicating the thirty feet of hard-packed earth that separated the forest from the crater edge. Here and there, a few sparse pieces of vegetation were trying to grow on the no-plant's-land between woods and glass. They weren't doing too well, but they made the bleakness a little less bleak. "Here it is," I said, dropping my own gear. "We'll start to search the caves tomorrow." Nightfall drifted in -- a black fog. There were stars in the sky, but the greatest light show of all lay at our feet. For two and one quarter miles ahead, the nuclear glass shimmered with vibrant colors, giving off the heat of day. Blue chased reds across its surface while ambers danced with oranges. T was sitting on the edge of the crater, dangling my legs, a hundred yards or so from the campsite. Crazy was back there, still eating supper. His suppers lasted two hours. Lotus drifted down next to me, folded her tiny legs under her and put her head on my shoulder. Her hair was cool and sweetsmelling. It was as black as the night and blew around my ears and chin and made me feel good. "Beautiful, isn't it," I said. Ibere was a burst of orange rimmed with silver to the right. "Very," she said as she tried to orawl closer. She was our consolation. She held the team together. Crazy and I could not have lasted a month without her. Briefly, I wondered at her and Crazy; he was so big and clumsy, while she was so tiny, so fragile. But she never came back cracked or chipped, so maybe the lummox was gentler than he seemed. "You scared?" I asked. She was trembling, and it was not cold. "You know me." "We'll win. We're the good guys." I felt something wet on my neck, and I knew it was a tear. I shifted a little and cuddled her and muttered soothing platitudes. But mainly, I just sat there being uncomfortable and damned happy all at once. Lotus almost never cried. When she did, she was worried about one of us -- I mean really worried -- and then she couldn't stop until she was dried out. I could only sit and hold her. So she was crying. And I was cuddling. And, suddenly, Crazy was screaming! V A very long time ago, as I had sat at an upstairs window before my mother made me leave our house, there had come two giant red eyes out of the night mists. They had been as large as saucers, casting scarlet light ahead of them, focusing on the house. It was a jeep covered with sheets and red cellophane and painted to look like a dragon by the Knights of the Dragon to Preserve Humanity. I thought it very funny that grown people should play at such games. Now, below me in the pit that had suddenly opened and swallowed Crazy, a spider, spindly legs bracing it a hundred feet down, was looking up with crimson headlamp eyes. Only, there was something worse than a jeep behind these orbs. "Crazy!" I shouted. "Here. Toward the left! " I took the lantern Lotus brought from the camp and lowered it into the steeply sloping tunnel. The spider backed off another fifty feet. Branching off from the main fall were several side tunnels, all filled IF with eggs and sticky webbing. It must have burrowed close to tile surface," Crazy shouted. "I just stepped on the ground and it gave away under me." He had rolled into one of the tunnels and was caught up in the stickiness and the eggs. The mother spider fidgeted below, wantftig to come charging up, frightened only for the moment. "Lotus, dimbing cleats -- and your knife. Hurry!" She lifted away and was back almost instantly. I slipped the cleat attachments onto my boots and took her knife to cut steps into the tunnel wall. "I'm coming down, Crazy." "What about the spider?" "She looks scared." "She'll get over that. Stay out." "Crazy, you're nuts." I crawled down into the sloping cave, hating to turn my back on the spider but unable to negotiate the steep passage head first. The red eyes watched. They never blinked. They had no lids. I reached the side cave where Crazy was trapped, with dirt packed so tightly under my fingernails that they ached. I hacked away the web, balled it up and stuffed it behind him. I didn't want to drop it down the main shaft for fear the jOit would bring her flailing upward, stomach open. When I had his head and arms free, he was able to help himself. "You first," I said. "Can you make it up?" "These hooves give perfect balance." He kicked out of the egg pocket and started up the incline. I waited until he was almost out, then launched myself on the climb. But all this action had shaken the mother spider to action. I could hear the scuttling of her feet coming up fast. "I can't shoot, Andy!" Lotus shouted. "You're in the way!" T started to say something when the furry legs touched me around the waist and pulled me loose. But the spider wasn't prepared for all my weight. She wobbled and collapsed. We both plunged down the slope, twisted around a bend -- all her legs kicking furiously -- and dropped twenty feet onto a cavern floor. I was on top of the spider. She was screaming. Then, despite the pounding of my heart, I could hear that most of the screams were echoes, cast back by the walls of the great stone chamber. I felt something wet, scrambled for a hand hold on the flailing beast and looked down. My foot was dangling inside her stomach! She had rolled onto her back, and I was mounted on her deadly under-side. The mandibles quivered. I jerked the foot back and discovered the knife still clutched in my hand. I # The head reared up as she tried to throw me off. I struck for the eye, pulled back the blade and was rewarded with gushing blood. She screamed louder, rolling about. I was tossed free, to crouch behind a large boulder. The spider did her death dance, and then stilled, her flashing legs awkwardly akimbo. I remained behind the rocks, clutching an arm that ached, too afraid to look at it until I saw that the beast was dead and she would not be rushing me. It took her some time to expire, but she did so with a great amount of frothing. When I looked at my arm, I could see the reason for pain; a small piece of white bone was sticking through the flesh, white and spotted with blood. My head was swimming, and I suddenly felt more than a thousand years old. Above, from the tunnel that the spider and I had fallen through, I could hear a noisy scuffling. My head spun even faster, and visions of the beasts mate swam through my head, magnifying my fears. I got to my feet. I felt as if I were walking on a cushion of air. My eyes were burning coals someone had dropped into my sockets, while my head was a block of melting ice. I staggered out of the large cavern, moving to a tunnel that glittered with light at its end, hoping that this -- in some way -- would lead me out. The stones seemed to melt and reform around me. My teeth chattered in my ice head. I perspired. The end of the tunnel was a branching-off place where the walls turned to glass and wound erratically off under the floor of the vast crater. Turquoise and crimson ceilings flashed over me. The walls were tinted mirrors. Reality was pushed even further from my mind, and delusion and fever grew stronger. I moved to the right. My arm had become a flaming tree, its roots grown deep into my chest, constricting my lungs. Panting, I moved on through the winding glass corridors, sane enough to know who I was and that I must get out, but just delirious enough to not think of turning back and working along the route I had covered. In this manner, I came across the Beast in its lair. 'T'he tunnel ended in a room where grasses had been dragged in, and there was rotting flesh from past meals strewn on the floor. There was a natural stairway, uneven but usable, breaking one wall. It led to the ceiling where a half-moon aperture offered escape to the crater floor overhead. But lying between that escape route and me was the Beast. And, though dying, he was not dead. I stopped, swaying crazily. The Beast was watching me from where he lay, his massive head raised IF from the floor, his single red eye a hideous lantern, bright even in this glittering room of fantasy walls. He grunted and tried to move. His leg was a mess. That was the work of my first shot. He shoved his other leg under himself and pulled into a sitting position, all weight on one arm and his good leg. He snarled. I saw that he was going to leap. I looked about for a chunk of loose glass and found one the size of my fist. I bent, picked it up and weighed it. I brought my healthy arm back, to heave it at the Beast's head. It struck his chest instead, knocking him on his behind. He struggled to a sitting position while I searched for another rock. The walls glittered, seeming to recede and quickly approach me when I moved too much... I found a sharp-edged piece and brought it back to throw. And he spoke. "Make Caesar shut up!" he said. "Make him shut up!" I almost dropped the rock. The walls wiggled crazily. The Beast repeated the thing, over and over. Then he leaped. The force of his impact was not ,as great as it might have been had he been able to use both feet to propel himself. Still, he bowled me over. He raked claws down the side of my face as we rolled. I kicked free mid rolled across the floor to the far wall. Above was the exit "Andy!" Lotus and Crazy appeared at the entrance to the room. It had been they, not the spider's mate, who had been scrambling down that tunnel! "Make Caesar shut up!" the beast recited. "Make him shut up!" The two of them froze. Crazy had a gun drawn and was about to fire. Now he left the gun dangling loosely in his fingers. "Kill it!" I shouted. "It's intelligent," Lotus said, rubbing her tiny hands together. "It is like hell!" Panting as I was, I must have sounded more like an animal than the Beast. "It killed Ralph, Crazy!" Crazy flinched, looking very distressed. "It's more man than animal," he said, his gun hanging uselessly in his hand. "It got that phrase from mel" I shouted. "I said that when I shot it in the woods. It must have been speaking then -- something it picked up from a previous bounty hunter -- mid I thought it was intelligent. That's why I couldn't shoot it. Man cannot kill man. But this is a Beast! Nothing more. A myna bird." "It got that phrase from me!" the Beast shouted, struggling across the floor toward me, throwing a few cautious looks behind at Lotus and Crazy. "See!" "See!" it mocked me. Lotus grabbed the gun from Crazy and aimed. But she could not fire. "Here, Andy I" She tossed the gun to me, over the Beast. It clattered against the wall five feet away. Wearily, I inched after it. And the Beast was on me. He tore at me with his reserve of strength, the strength he had been If you give up cigarettes, you might gain a few pounds. (And also a few years) The plain, unfiltered fact is that people who smoke cigarettes get lung cancer a lot more frequently than nonsmokers. And lung cancer can finish you. Before your time. We'd rather have you stay alive and well. Because even if you do gain a few pounds, you'll have the time to take them off. american cancer society c ? saving to meet death with. I felt blood pumping out of my back as his claws raked it. His foul breath swept over me. I kicked out with a last ounce of strength. My boot caught him on the chin and stunned him. My fingers slipped over the gun. Bringing it around, with the barrel centered on the brutish face, I choked as my finger pressed the trigger. "See!" he shouted, reaching a long, hairy arm out for me. Strange scenes of a house on fire, of a woman burning, of people turning into animals, flashed through my mind. Then I pulled the trigger. I saw his face go up in a red fountain and collapsed backward into darkness. T#hen I came to, it was to see   a blue sky overhead, trees flashing by on both banks, and blue water underneath. Crazy had broken the top from one of the glass bubbles and had used it as a boat, placing it in the small river that drifted through Congressman Horner's ranch. This would be a much swifter route than that by which we had come. "How are you feeling?" Lotus asked. "Relieved," I croaked. "I know," she said, running a cool hand over my forehead. "No, you don't," I said, turning my head to the glass bottom where the water revealed its depth. My IF (Continued from page #) time was no exception. "Perhaps," I reflected with growing enthusiasm, rt we can drown D'Cela's forts." Leaving the larger of our two ships to guard D'Cela, I raced back to New Enithra with some hope of end to the D'Cela problem. Both human and Ayorian scientists, now working in teams, were asked, "Can the gravity field be made directional over an area equal to that of D'Cela's forts?" The humans, looking like gigantic bugs because of the goggles enabling them to see the Ayor, answered in the affirmative. 'Will the energy of gravity pass through both the physical and telekinetic barriers?" Again the answer was yes. What I had in mind was simple enough. D'Cela's fortress had a thin double skin made with exceedingly dense metal. Such dense structures, especially when constructed in strong gravity-wells, needed special flotation platforms to keep them from sinking through the planet's less dense bed-rock. With the gravity generator, we should be able to upset the delicate balance of those floatation platforms, causing the fortress to sink naturally and completely through the planet's composition. I returned to D'Cela's final retreat with the modified equipment, and we increased the apparent mass of the fort in steep exponential progression. It sank toward the planet's center as though falling through a hard-vacuum column we were fortunate to escape the explosion which resulted, causing the planet's crust to be tom away in cascades of fire. On approaching the fortress on the planet's opposite side, we soon sensed both the absence of humans and the quick popping of small hyper-driven ships as they snapped into hyper-space. Would we never catch this evil man? R ational logic dictated that we quit the chase since there was no known way of either tracing or catching D'Cela in hyper-space. coming-out point. But my emotions were not rational and I drove myself and all others to find the means by which D'Cela could be destroyed. My need for revenge drove me as no Ayorian had ever been driven. The nearest galaxy was # X # # light-years distant from Feren's sun. Under hyper-drive, flight time would fill six weeks, were he to choose that direction. This would be my maximum time for solution to two major problems -- first, to exceed D'Cela's hyper-driven velocity and second, to develop a means for locating his ships while still on hyper-drive. Driven mostly by emotions, I felt instinctively convinced that we could solve these two problems. There was first the clue that hyperdrive phenomenon was crudely related to our natural indirect action faculties. Next was the fact that no time accrued during our organically induced teleportation, while time did accrue under the mechanical variety. Those children who were deeply engrossed in their personal twinning problems could not be dissuaded from their tasks, but all others were pushed and prodded as never before into study of the problems. And within a matter of days, we had our first breakthrough and within hours we had our first potential solution. When the adults reached into the hyper-drive field under their highest power of sensitivity, they were able to observe or sense a kind of "wake," sub-nucleonic in character. As the field moved, the wake left a fine trail of asymmetrically arranged sub-particles. In time, they dissipated; but they lasted long enough to provide the trace of D'Cela's ships. When a smaller hyper-drive generator was placed inside the field of another generator, relative velocity was increased by a power factor of two for the total assemblage. In theory, an endless number of generators placed one within another would provide mechanically induced "instant" travel, like that which we already enjoyed by means of our natural faculties. Practical considerations enabled only one power boost, and even then the linkage worked for only small objects. But we had our solution I Tied to the dissipating wake of D'Cela's ships were small nuclear explosives which moved ever-doser to each of his ships in the ratio of one number to its square power. Wherever and whenever the wake terminated, indicating the normal space position of his ship, our explosive would perform satisfactorily and the resulting blast would loose enough free energy to destroy any ship. X B y now I was well aware of the fundamental differences between even two beings of the same biological stock. The Tepen, though derived from Ayorian stock, were all evil; D'Cela and his men were derived from human stock and they, too, were mostly evil. Probably on any planet there were both evil and good stock, so I could not truly condemn the whole human race for the actions of a small number, anymore then I could blame all Ayorians for the action of the Tepen. But what of cultural and control institutions? The Ayorian had never allowed themselves to be IF "AH alliance with other human groups will be approved only through the Ayor, as well as growth or preparation of military efforts." How these humans felt about my ultimatum was unimportant, since I was fully determined to protect my race. Never again would more than sixty thousand of my brethren be destroyed by the idle whim of some mad human. Therefore I, Spork the Ayorian moron, Spork the Tepen avenger, Spork the beast enslaver, now became Spork, ruler of the Quations planetary system! controlled by evil, choosing to die rather then to succumb to that which was against their natural nature. How did the humans of Feren allow themselves to be so controlled? If we Ayorians were successfully to colonize the empty planets of the Ferenian planetary system, we would have great need for peace. Could we ever have peace if the humans were to continually allow might to rule right? With an almost paranoiac, passionate feeling for detail, we checked planet six to insure no further dangers and I gave thought far ahead to our future. My emotions, once boiling against D'Cela and his murder of thousands of my brethren, now transferred to a determination that security, would be established for my people. We landed on Feren to be met by a large government delegation; when the empty speeches were through and the banquet ended, I explained to all the kind of government I had in mind. "From this day forward," I said, "this planetary system shall be considered under the dominion of the Ayor. "Should the humans of Feren wish to continue self-rule of their planet, they will be free to do so -- so long as no evil men or evil systems are allowed to take root, restricting the principles of individburgh regional convention). At Allegheny Motor Inn, # Beers School Road, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. Guest of Honor: Robert Silverberg. Features a banquet. Membership: # r in advance, #, at the door. For information: Peter Hays, #I Wightman, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #. Honor: Ed Hamilton and Leigh Brackett Motor Lodge, Detroit, Michi gan. Membership: #, advance: #, at the door. For information: Detroit Triple Fan Fair, # Toledo Avenue, Detroit, Michigan #. four; or six weeks, and college credit may be granted. Faculty: Robin Scott, Frederik Pohl, Frits Leiber, Harlan Ellison, Damon Knight and Kate Wilhelm. The cost is # for each two-week segment and includes full room and board. For information: Robin Scott Wilson, English Department, Clarion State College, Clarion Pennsylvania #. # Allen Parkway, Houston, Texas. Membership #. For information: Tony Smith, # Lynnview, Houston, Texas #. The North Plasa Motel, #I Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio. For reservation blanks and information: Lou Tabakow, # St Johns Terrace, Cincinnati, Ohio #. Monica, California. Guest of Honor: Randall Garrett Fan Guest of Honor: Roy Tackett, Toastmaster: Harlan Ellison. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. A supporting membership of # entitles you to all publications. For Monica, California #. Make checks payable to Ken Rudolph. Inn, just off #-# and #-#, Knoxville, Tennessee. Guest of Honor: Rachel Maddux, author of "The Green Kingdom." Membership: #. For information: Janie Lamb, Rt ##, Box #, Heiskell, Tennessee #. August #September #, #. ST. Convention. At Chase-Park Plaza Hotel, # N. Klngshlghway, St Louis, Missouri #. Guest of Honor: Jack Gaughan. Fan Guest of Honor: Ted White. Features: Project Art Show; Masquerade Ball; All-night movies -- every night; Rock Band; Panels and speeches featuring all your favorite writers, editors, and artists; Auctions; Awards Banquet and the Presentation of the Hugos. Memberships: #, attending; #, supporting. Join now and receive all the progress reports as they are published. For information: St. Loulscon, P.O. Box #, St. Louis, Missouri #. Make checks payable to St. Loulscon. the University of Wisconsin, Green Bay. The Secondary Universe is open to the first # registrants (# fee); the Tolkien Conference is open to all (# fee if not a member of the Tolkien Society of America). For information: Ivor A. Rogers, University of Wisconsln-GB, Green Bay, Wisconsin #. Warwick Hotel, #th and Locust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Membership: #. For information: Tom Purdom, # Cedar Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvia #. Here's what's blossoming: A well-titled anthology featuring two chillers by Mervyn Peake Stanley G. Weinbaum's long unavailable masterpiece Andrew Sinclair's stunning literary fantasy Poul Anderson's little classic And Stanley G. Weinbaum's other long unavailable masterpiece A great new Bob Shaw novel Robert Graves' unforgettable far-future utopian fantasy And what may summer bring? The best work ever (we think) of Harlan Ellison and Robert Silverberg, among other delights... any#books#c W "Sixth Sense?" Could # y not know it? Explore "V the most comprehensive "encyclopedia" of occultism ever published Examine feats of seers, mystics, yoga masters, mediums-even voodoo priests. Discover techniques claimed to influence dice... restore vigor... magnify physical strength... banish pain jpr of illness... much more. Also "rules" for reading minds, dreams, cards, numbers, stars. Illus. Pub. ed. # Do you sometimes feel there's a lot more to the news than meets the eye? tions that need answers today. A club that offers books that challenge you to explore the frontiers of human experience. Selections are described to members in advance. Although these new books sell for #, # or more in original publishers' editions, you pay only # plus shipping and handling. (Occasional extra-value selections slightly higher.) Take only the books you want -- as few as # books in the coming year. Resign anytime after that. ' tiu mi huf. volum Case histones ol Strange events that de.Weeping Madonnas, lied every law of demons, vampire. science -- yet they hapmental telepathy, iiv pened! A shocker! Pub. mg machines." Pub. ed. #. ed. # mystic predicts destruction of N. Y . the west Coast, by #. Pub. ed. # # cayck !j BM IN. Gina Cerminara. Reincarnation -- fact or fiction? Author offers new scientific evidence as proof you will be reborn Pub. ed. # the PK phenomenon immd over matter) prove even more powerful than the H bomb' Pub. ed # # Steam, ramous report er author seeks to debunk Yoga -- becomes confirmed believer. Pub. ed. # # Practicing witch unmasks the mysteries of sorcery, ghost-hunting. voodoo curses. Pub. ed. #S. Mail coupon now -- but send no money. You will be billed later. If not delighted return shipment within # days to cancel membership. You will owe nothing. Mail coupon now to: Universe Book Club, Garden City, New York #. Hugh Cayce. Son of Edgar Cayce describes his father's "methods." Reveals how to develop your own psychic powers' Pub. ed. # # Ebon Case histories of people who "saw" future events before they happened Find out if mmara. Startling report shows how your love life may be predestined -- through reincarnation. Pub. ed. # # The Right Reverend James A. Pike. Did the Bishop really communicate with his dead son' The clergyman's psychic evpenences. Pub ed # # (plus shipping and handling) for all # volumes: New selections will be described in advance. A convenient form will always be provided on which I may refuse selections I do not want. I pay only #, plus shipping and handling, for each selection I accept (unless I take an extra-value selection). I need take only # books in the coming year, and may resign any time after that. it in # days and membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing. MR. (please print) Credit Reference  (Your telephone number, bank or department store where you have a Charge account is sufficient. Offer good in Continental U-S-A. only. # U#D SCIENCE FICTION by T. J. Bass by Perry A. Chapdelaine by Philip St John The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Rey, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: For Your Information -- Willy Ley, Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IP's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room, controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and where the editors, writers and artists blast back. m Vel. It. No. # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Prederik PoM, Editor Emeritus Willy Ley, Science Editor Lester del Key, Feature Editor Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director L C. Murphy, Circulation Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director Alexis N. Tsvetikov # IF is published ' monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright  # by Universal Publishing A Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. T he creatures shown above the Harvard Observatory. He, are Moonworms caught by together with an equally prothe artist in the act of making minent Russian, Frenchman and moon craters. The Moonworms' Dutchman, is at this very motremendouly powerful tails propel ment -- July, # -- in Moscow, them through the lunar crust -- as naming for posterity the craters on shown -- and out into space, where the far side of the moon, they head for Earth as flying Dr. Menzel chairs the Intemasaucers. tional Astronomical Union's You had better believe four-man Working it -- whatever else you might hear. Group on Nomenclature, The For IF is the magazine of Alterother members are Professors B. natives. Levin (Russia), Marcel Minnaert The artist is Dr. Donald H. (Holland) and Audoin Dollfus Menzel, Smithsonian, Scientist, (France), who is president of the Paine Professor of Astronomy at I.A.U.'s Commission # -- The Harvard and former Director of (Please turn to page # ) Beyond.Perception's Doors Bocks to Light the Way Harold Sherman. Documented case histories of communication with past, future, outer space, cosmic consciousness, and the dead, related by a distinguished bestselling author. #b# # David Saunders and R. Roger Harkins. Where the Condon Committee went wrong -- a timely hard-hitting expose that presents scientific evidence of Martin Ebon. Startling and convincing -- "touches on all points relating to this phenomenon, from theoretical physics to time displacement." -- The Kirkus Service #H# # Edited by Martin Ebon. More than # electrifying true accounts of telepathy and prophecy verified by leading parapsychologists. #H# # Edited by Martin Ebon. Fascinating documented reports of what has happened and is haping expert in the field. #A# # Joseph F. Goodavage. A complete, precise guide showing the reader how to plot his own horoscope from all the varied personal factors used by professional astrologists. #H# # Maurice Woodruff. A worldfamous clairvoyant and television star discusses the entire range of future-casting methods. The most complete book in the field. #H# # Edited by Jay David. A bestseller filled with exciting and authoritative accounts that will challenge believers and nonbelievers alike. #H# # r I I .At all bookstores or order from the publisher today  i  World Publishing, Dept. DD-# # East # St., N.Y.C., N.Y. # Please send me these books; #A# #H# #A# #H##A# #H# #H# #H# I enclose  check  money order in the amount of  in full payment. I understand I may return the book(s) within # days if not satisfied. Please add sales tax where necessary -- the trivia of a thousand areof the games after I had neatly nas on a thousand planets in a decapitated the former champion thousand ages. I am an athlete of the Sabre worlds by means of great proportions, strength and of wrist pressors only. Declared skill -- one who kills by order of the season's Grand Champion, the gawkers or my master, head garlanded with red-brandy whichever calls first -- and I am vines, chest proudly extended one soon to be killed. against chest band, I swaggered away from the game's space on wrist pressors only, as if to say, Look at me, you weaklings. I have bested your best. Now who is master and who is slave? Their sun of a thousand yellow rays beat down on my back as I pushed my way across the game's space into the lower ramp to my cage, expecting there to relax with wine, song and the caress of the opposite sex as, I suppose, has been done by my kind for ages past. Then she came. The lights burned brightly as the crowd surged past our flux cages. The public was not satisfied with the death, pain and sadism of the arena, but demanded that my cage -- all our cages -- be kept open to public gathering. Like my cell-mates I was a freakish one-G animal, trained by means of gravity-like pressor and tractor beams to tear and hew at others. She walked with her father. He, merely a seven-tenths-G animal, was human and shaped like myself. He had a strong smile, cropped gray hair and rugged features set-off by sunken eyes, a bulbous nose and bright, straight teeth. Oh God! How I hated that animal -- that all-powerful, allgreat leader of the Sabre planets. Trevic Strenger and his family walked in public gathering to view me, this season's Grand Champion, in my "natural" habitat! First came the retinue of sycophants and guards. Cloaked in tight plastic of weblon to nullify pressor and tractor rays, they stationed themselves to one side of my cage, holding the crowded path open for the dictator Strenger and his family. I threw my wine outward to vent my disgust and anger, helplessly watching as it struck the surrounding magnetic field, to be sucked inward and downward instantaneously as the powerful field latched onto minute iron particles in the liquid. They didn't yield an inch nor did they acknowledge my act by even a twitch of the mouth -- except Trevic Strenger. He passed his hand back to his beautiful wife and gently tugged her forward so as not to miss the show, just as he did the night I was taken, five years ago, on my rocky planet. and, had I known then what I now know, even their fleetest hunters would have gone back to the ship empty. My brood cell -- brothers, sisters, mother and father -- had left me for the day. I tossed rocks at the passing pack animals below our cave, not aware of the hunters swooping over me, preparing to entangle me in their rays and beams. I spat at Trevic with the thought, and he pulled his head back to laugh, just as he had the day I was brought, bound and struggling before him. Oh, I was more than a barbarian from the Planet of Rocks. I was an educated barbarian, for their pleasure would not be enough unless they knew that inside of each gladiator lay a trapped, cunning and scheming modern mind -- a mind equal perhaps even to their own in knowledge, yet trapped by their science and their orders to fight on a barbaric level of their choice. I spat again when I thought of their educators and how facts were poured into my animal brain day and night, indiscriminate facts. IF Did you know that a man named Plato once said, "Know thyself?" I spat again in honor of such useless information. His wife's face strained at her husband's sadistic laughter and I imagined that she disapproved. Then I vowed some day to kill Trevic Strenger with my own bare hands. I watched the daughter. She pushed through the crowd and I saw perfection. I had known many other women, slave women thrown to us along with victory wines and victory songs. I had seen none with the grace, the litheness, the color, the shadows of this one. Daughter of a mad king and a radiant slave-queen, she was -- and her eyes seemed to glow with a kind of empathy for me I had never before known outside of the brood chamber. I opened my gnarled fists, dropping my cups, and sprang to the field's side. My chest band pulsed with heat as its magnetic field fought against the lines of force. I strained my body mightily to bring it closer to her side until only inches separated us and my metal chest-belt glowed cherry red from hysteresis. of flux sprang the stronger invisible rays of my love. Her blue eyes met my gray ones and mine clung while the world dissolved around us. Though worlds of differing customs and a powerful kingdom lay between us, I vowed to reach her as deeply and strongly as I had just vowed to kill her father. respond to me? Could a barbaric brood-world creature reach her more refined heart? Though doubt assailed my thoughts, I clung to my twin emotions of hate for her father and my new-born love for her. "Barbarian," he said, "You must come to terms with your simple emotions. In you lie only the pure emotions -- hate, love, anger -- not any refined, civilized, subtle and complex ones." Snarling, I threw my drinking vessel at him, only to see it stop in mid-air, then retreat backward from the invisible wall. He did not even laugh at my anger. "Our people crave heroes," he continued evenly. "You may be a great one. With gladiator success come civilized opportunities which would normally be denied one of your kind. You may soon see complete freedom, then complete citizenship with all the rights and privileges of a Sabre citizen. Shall we drop this silly feud now?" Hate boiled in me like a hidden volcano and I did not answer. Trevic Strenger paused silently to watch my heaving chest, then added: "After all, barbarian, had it not been you who was captured, another from your brood world would now be standing where you are -- another would now be offered full education, citizenship and opportunity for world-wide adulation." I could not control my emotions. So complete was my hatred for this man who had torn me from brood-home that my whole muscular body convulsed as I spat directly at his face. Without change of tone in his voice he said, "Tomorrow I will introduce you to Urut of Ewit, a two-point-five-G champion." I sneered, as I had yet to learn of either Ewit or Urut of Ewit and therefore lacked comprehension of his plans for the morrow. Trevic narrowed his browless eyes to watch as he bored in with his varied rapier-like pieces of knowledge, "Urut can crush rocks on your planet between his two hands. On his world a day lasts seven of yours. A day's work to him means seven times twentyfour or one hundred and sixtyeight of your hours. Can you fight him even one of his days. Grand Champion?" I knew the answer. Urut's skin would be as tough as rock, his stamina far beyond any normal one-G human's bounds, and his strength would be like ordinary muscle taut against the pressure of invariant hydraulic presses. I would most surely die tomorrow. I knew it and Trevic Stronger knew it. But I spat again in barbaric defiance. II sounds of tractor and pressor duels around me and knew I had overslept on this, my last day. According to my educated brain, thousands of years before a certain B. Franklin had said. Early to bed and early to rise will make a man healthy, wealthy and wise. I paused briefly in disgust at giving thought to such revolting associations. Why had not my mind been permitted to remain that of a normal brood-world barbarian? I bound my two pressor beams to my wrists and my two tractor beams to my ankles and gyrated my body through the endless contortions of tension and countertension so necessary to the modern gladiator. I pulled my leg muscles to their limit of endurance, slowly . but surely overcoming the tractor-versus-tractor configuration. Then, and so rapidly that the eye would be unable to follow, I twisted my body muscles to push pressor against pressor until, biceps bulging, I heard the faint clink of wrist plate against wrist plate, signifying I had once again overcome the hidden power of my death machinery. Only then did I eat lightly, my IF good nature returning slowly as I felt a sense of well-being. Again I passed my body through every one of the hardlearned exercises designed to test to the utmost one muscle against another, passing through the last just as the aurora at the side of my cage indicated that I was to move out into the arena. To avoid death from chest-band pressure, as my cell slowly contracted around me, I moved forward, following the energy glow. There, under the beat of their merciless sun, was the open arena, its sand, its hate-driven gawkers, its blood of the past and psychic blood yet to flow. Pushing my way toward the ellipsoid's nearest focus, I then squinted to see the squat hulk of Urut of Ewit at the far end. The crowd of blood-mongers surrounding our large cage, except at floor level, howled on my entry. Knowing I was the handicapped, they screamed for Urut's blood which, could I but arrange it, would be most happily furnished them -- for it was his blood or mine. Almost I felt sorry for that hulk -- short, broad of torso, leg and arm; flat-headed with parrotlike lips; humanoid of form and lizard-hided of skin. M y survival was at stake and my mind swiveled back to life and death calculations. He had the sun. Trevic Stranger would have seen to that. He had more. As strong as I was, my muscles were but one-G trained. As quick as I was, he would act faster. Very probably I would not find any weak spot in his natural armor, whereas to him I was but an anthropomorphic jellyfish. In a gladiator's daze I calculated my survival paths overlong -- already he was swimming toward me with tractors and pressors working together. No sooner had I tensed to meet his first attack than he was beyond me, already rebounding from the magnetic wall. I pushed both tractors outward at the widest angle of my legs, unconsciously reaching for the bedrock which I knew to exist there. Both arms were folded against my chest band to place pressors in their firmest position. He struck like a ten-ton boulder rolling down the mountainside. My muscle-banded legs vibrated with the pressure and my reserves soon evaporated. His right tractor could reach around to the side of my head to hold while his left reached to my right side and I knew scant instants stood between me and decapitation. More in instinctive desperation than for any reason I switched pressors down low and slipped my body under his. He rocketed overhead to slam mightily against the far side of the arena's shield, chest band glowing red, while I twisted around from back to belly on the sand floor. Still no strategy came to my mind. Can a pygmy subdue the elephant? Can the ant topple the pedestrian? Can a simple one-G human resist for long the heavyplanet man under oneG conditions? I concentrated every bit of thought and will on my survival. Brute force against inhuman force was my only strategy. He sliced through the air again and I dodged. He brought both legs into play to cut me in two and I again dodged. He tried the ploy of alternating leg tractors and arm pressors and I eluded him. Not until he sat above me in the overhead tractor-lock position did my strategy bloom. Though only tiny moments of time were involved, my thoughts ran as follows. Why can I dodge this lightninglike man so easily? How is it he misuses his speed so much? Could it be that he is unused to fighting in a one-G environment -- that this is his first experience on such a light world? If so, his timing must be too fast and I am not really eluding him. He misses me and then I dodge, gers and toes, I crawled excruciatingly slowly across the bottom until his tractors caught bedrock below and I could slide out from under. He jabbed down with pressors but this time I was ready. I kicked my tractors into his squat belly and followed behind his moving arms with my own pressors. He somersaulted then and pinwheeled before catching himself. Now I had the trick. Every time he moved I swung either tractor or pressor, catching his motion from behind and enforcing it. I used his own strength and speed against him until finally, during one complex maneuver where his tractors reinforced his pressor movement, I doubly reinforced his action with my pressors and tractors and his two arms snapped. The gawkers screamed and howled for blood but I had other ideas. Already exhausted, I doubted my ability to penetrate his thick hide, though he lay helpless. More important to me than his destruction were the death of another and the love of a third. Urut floated around and around on tractors, frantically twisting his body to redirect his dangling arms and their pressors. I shot forward and spoke for the first time. "Urut. Cooperate with me and live to fight another day." In a high, squeaking voice he warily asked, "What is it you want?" "I want out of this cage and IF you can help. What they do to me outside and where I go should be of no concern to anyone but me -- and no one will suspect your help in what will follow." "What do I do?" "I am going to use both pressors and tractors to propel myself through the cage. Only if I go very quickly will my chest band remain sufficiently cool for me to survive. I am going to place myself within range of your tractors and with their help, and the quickness of your legs, I can crash through. Will you do this Unit?" "But you will die if we are not quick enough. Why should you place yourself within my control when you have already won?" "Urut, my friend, you and I have no quarrel. We have never had. We fight only to survive -- now let us help each other live. I want freedom and revenge. You want your life. Why should we not bargain?" T he crowd began the death chant. "Blood -- blood! Kill the hulk! Kill the hulk -- " I could tell from their frenzy that soon something must be done or their passion would be on all of us. Urut could also sense it. The idea of mutual help was not yet fully integrated in his mind but he nodded. "May your mud-nest be pleasing!" I swung to the other side of the arena to begin my plan. From hundreds of previous fights I knew every inch of arena bedrock and I used the knowledge to advantage. I flung wrist pressors at each point behind me and ankle tractors ahead of me, accelerating swiftly in line with Urut. The crowd hushed and Urut patiently moved his hulk into position for the throw. I swung past his body swiftly. More swiftly still he lashed onto me with both tractors webbed together. I felt the fringe of their beams pass my arms, then my head and thick neck absorbed the pull and I was flung up to and against the magnetic shield surrounding us. My chest band glowed and part of my body tried to wrench itself backward -- but still onward and through I passed. I flew over the heads of those in the first tiers, then plowed into the next ranks. Heads popped; chest, arm and leg bones snapped. I arose amidst the gore of dead and dying gawkers. Their hush changed to screams. Pandemonium reigned. A small number in the crowd rushed to the exits but the majority stood shouting, "Champion! Champion! Champion!" Over and over again their acknowledgment echoed -- like the beating of surf on the rocky shores -- until my very bones vibrated with the chant. Never II before had one escaped the magnetic arena and the crowd was wild with enthusiasm. I should have trusted to my judgment of their emotion. My next move was utterly foolish. I swung out to reach for Trevic Strenger, hoping to crush his thin neck between my pressors. Above and below and all around me flew his weblon-encaaed protectors. High over me were the platforms of heavy rays, while on each side were the smaller hand weapons -- but I had agility, speed and coordination far beyond those of any group of Strenger guards. I had one tactic which would catch them by surprise. My muscles were trained to use beams but my mind was trained to use muscles. With those I bowled over the first group, tumbling weapon and guard onto the tiers below. Ill F ighting one-G animals in an open environment and with full knowledge of their beams and rays, I was more than a match for them all. But no matter how I hacked and hewed, how cleverly I spilled their heavy weapons, I still could not reach Strenger. I can see himyet in my memory, sitting back, watching with faint amusement as I tossed his guards here and there like feathers -- only to find more guards taking their places. The gawkers shrieked with pleasure over this new form of entertainment and I turned and ran, dashing up beyond the seat rims, finding space between the roof and two structural pressor beams to squeeze my bulky body through. Outside the arena I fell several hundred feet before my rays caught bedrock below and I could twist myself across the pylons and roadways of this ungodly civilization to search for the city's end and silent peace. Behind me, perhaps a mile away, the guards boiled out from the arena area and I swept down low below their sight level. Another mile and another and another -- when would the city end? Then little by little trees, parks and farms replaced city blocks, until only farm land and tall mountains lay ahead. That first night I slept in peace among the wild foothills of this strange world, free for the first time since being taken from my brood world. In my dreams lived the face of Strenger -- but also in my dreams was the sad, melancholy face of Patricia and my body longed for both in their proper place. The morning sun no longer seemed so hot and sultry. The air seemed fresher and the planet, even with its strange flora and fauna, appeared friendly. I speared a small carnivore with IF a tractor beam, drank fresh water and ate the raw meat, then washed and rested while I thought. Were I to go back to the city my large bulk would easily identify me as the Champion. My muscles would be impossible to hide in this civilization. Farmers I knew about because of my helter-skelter education -- I knew, for example, that some Sabre planet genius had called farmers stewards of the state. Could I trust the farmer not to turn me in for one of Strenger's high rewards? I thought not. Though I searched my brain for other informative tidbits on this society, I concluded that only the mountains and hills would hide me. sors, fastening them to my chest band by means of twisted fibers, then unhesitatingly I strode off toward the snow-capped mountains ahead. Day followed day and night followed night. I easily speared game with tractor or pressor while I followed the animal trails from elevation to elevation. My body stayed in trim and my hate gradually oozed outward as my path came closer to the appearance of rocky plateaus similar to my brood world -- all, that is, except the tiny, reserved corner of my emotions which repeated my need over and over. Kill Strenger, The rocky path wound upward and I trod closer to the snowy peaks, my body now covered with animal skins for warmth. Slowly the rock turned to snow, then snow to mixed snow and ice, glazing white while I moved onward and upward, never hurrying, never slowing. Miles of ice w'ere crossed and only once did I have to pull myself from a deep crevice by means of a tractor beam. Finally the downslope snow line was reached on the mountain's other side. I stepped with relief into familiar rocky plateaus, fully expecting a similar leisurely pace downward. Then it happened. It was Strenger again. I was caught. His men dropped the cage neatly over my body and turned the field on high. He came from behind the rocks with his bold smile and just looked, hands folded against his chest. "The gawkers now love you, barbarian, and we can still make a truce. Come, I invite you to bury your hatred. You are one of the greatest of our world's champions -- over all time -- and it saddens me, your waste. By popular demand I can now release you from gladiator status to become a free citizen. But how can I permit a hate-driven barbarian to roam free among us?" I showed my feeling by emitting a low growl. I clenched my fists IV imagining his thick neck in my hands. Trevic beckoned his retainers to lower the cage. He found a convenient rock upon which to sit while he pleaded his case again with me. "Know this, barbarian. Your use of tractor and pressor beams can be traced wherever you go on the Sabre planets. Even so, you have no further need for them, no matter w'hat your decision." He motioned with his finger and my cage began to tighten until my chest band squeezed me from all directions. Weblon-encased tools drove through my shield and skillfully cut my beams from my chest band, after which the cage was restored in size. "Your chest band is made of the world's strongest metal. It cannot be removed without special scientific tools. Wherever you wear it, you are subject to immediate seizure and capture. Do you still wish these marks of the gladiator?" My tongue finally loosed. I spoke in an angry voice, "You tore me from my brood-world without my permission, mad king, and I shall one day kill you!" Unable to reason with me further, he beckoned his men forward. My cage was lifted by weblon devices and I continued my trans-mountain flight as his captive. T hey towed me farther into the mountains, disregarding any inconvenience inertia might make to my caged body. My chest band glow'ed again and again as my body bounced off the cage's sides. Perhaps fifty miles inward, we followed another rocky path down to the valley of our destination. Below us, laid out in neat geometrical array, were the energy cages of thousands of humans. Walking like tiny bugs between each cage were the weblonprotected guards who passed out either food or water or else the whip -- whichever seemed most appropriate for the moment. A scrap of random information forced its way into my conscious mind -- forced, I suppose, by the association of the antUke men far below. Only a century ago someone named G. Harcel had said "Men are tiny bugs once they have seen their souls." Could any information be more useless at a time like this? High on one side were the mine tailings, glistening red from the evening sun. Immediately behind those tailings stood the factory, puffing out streamers of noxious gases which, I eventually learned, represented part of the physical and chemical wastes resulting from separating weblon metal from the ores found deep in the planet's crust. IF My cage was tugged next to a larger one. The aurora along the side, signifying an opening in my cage, burned brightly and I hurried across into the larger. Trevic Strenger paid his last respects then. "Enjoy your new lessons, barbarian. When you have learned more, find a way to contact me. Perhaps we may yet be friends." He walked away and I flung myself furiously at my magnetic shield. My routine was simple. Each day, every day, I was chained to a row of ten other prisoners who walked two miles along the valley floor and three miles downward on sloping shafts to our work area. Here alternating tractor-pressor beams were given to us, each a model considered too large for a single human to support. Two of us would hold the mining tool, aiming it at the green streak of weblon metal running throughout the enormous, partly natural and partly man-made caverns. The alternating tractorpressor forces acted swiftly on the cavern walls, grinding all but the impervious weblon metal to thin mono-molecular layers. Follow-up crews sucked up the dust-mixed metal and transported it back to the surface, where further chemical and physical processes separated the pure weblon metal from the monomolecular dust layers. Large ships transported the purified weblon to other industrial locations for treatment into forms and shapes for use wherever beam neutrality was required. ning that I was different from the others. Most were political prisoners with only puny muscles. Most werie gregarious creatures, friendly with one another, some counting days until their release while others were hopelessly resigned to making the best of a lifetime under lock and chain. Though I was as sociable as anyone on my brood world, here I snarled and spat until, like one with a great scabrous disease, I was avoided by all. Enemies were easy to make. The chip on my shoulder was as big as a sturdy oak, balanced precariously and waiting patiently for anyone to tip its trunk toward the ground. It took only one or two short tussles for my strength, agility and training to show. We were fed in line and normally the distance between my chained figure and others in my line was the maximum length of chain between us. One day a particularly fast, aggressive person bumped against my broad body in his eagerness to get nourishment. I swung around snarling, grabbed his neck between my I# giant paws and began to squeeze the life from him. Only the whips of the guards and the combined pulls of other prisoners dragged me from his body while life still throbbed in him. Another day my reflexes were sufficiently quick to grab the whip from a guard as he swung its tip toward me. I turned the whip around and nearly lacerated the guard to death before others could stop me. That was the day all of them, prisoners and guards alike, combined positive efforts against me. That I was not only asocial but beyond the restraints of any ordinary prison had now become obvious. In the first attempt at my life one of the heavy tractor-pressor beam generators was tipped on me from a height of about fifteen feet. Fortunately my gladiatorhoned senses caught the movement and I easily side-stepped and safely evaded what seemed to me was the generator's slow fall. I didn't catch on then. The next time a small, wiry prisoner pushed his body against mine in such a way that I tumbled backward into the yawning black chasm below us. I twisted and caught the edge of the chasm's rim and quickly drew myself upward. Already the guards had moved my attacker beyond reach, passing him quickly to the surface to become part of a different and unreachable work crew. It was then I began to suspect. O NE day the guards left our work crew. All became quiet and I looked up from my work to see every eye staring at me. Some had grasped rocks and stones while others grabbed the neck chains lying nearby. Slowly the group closed in on me, eyes glazed and muscles taut. I moved swiftly to my gladiator's stance and waited quietly. Every sense on the alert, I could place every one of the nine around me. How little they knew of my training. None had access to gladiator power-beams and I was now faced with a purely twodimensional problem. The rocks came fiVst and I easily dodged them. Then, in quick resolve, all nine swooped in toward me. I rushed through the circle, grabbing the nearest one holding the chain. Lifting him from the ground I flailed the group, though the chain was still held by two others. Those poor misguided point-seven-G fools had no concept of a gladiator's training and strength. I flailed until it seemed that none survived. But two had climbed above me during the melee to redirect the mining beam at my body. I am . quick and w'ell coorIF dinated but even I could not move as fast as their fingers on the machine's switch. Quite probably the alternating tractor-pressor beam had never been used on human flesh around these prisoners before. They certainly had no knowledge of the effect of the beams when used this way. I stood my ground and let the waves of current ripple through my body, neither resisting nor helping the flow of alternate tugs and pulls, and my gladiatortrained body as well as my waterbased tissue withstood the strains well. Every piece of metal I wore -- including my hated chest band and the newly attached neck band -- disintegrated into monomolecular powder as fine as any created in the weblon mines. I was truly free of their hated instruments of capture now. I leaped to the machine's top and from there crushed my attackers' heads like eggshells. Now only I, the mining machine and the solitude of the caverns remained in this branch of the tunnel. I wondered how long I had before the guards returned? Behind me lay certain capture. Directly ahead of me lay granitic rock, but to my side lay the deep, perhaps more dangerous chasm. What choice did I have? I picked up the mining tool and chain, using the latter to tie "the tool to my back. Then slowly, using trained fingers and toes, I picked my way down the steep crevice's side, using the slightest of indentations along the wall to support my own two hundred pounds and the additional two hundred on my back. Down I crawled. Down until my fingers and toes were sore beyond description -- down until I reached the first ledge. Here I rested, conserving my strength for the next lap downward. Again and yet again I traveled downward, resting from ledge to ledge, sometimes finding one only when it seemed that my last reserves of strength had been reached. Would I never reach the bottom? long, dark, silent tube, hearing only the sibilance of air sweeping around its path -- never hearing splash or bounce of its final strike. It was then I paused to consider. It was highly doubtful that I could go up again and going farther down seemed useless. Now was the time to unlimber my mining instrument. Then I pointed the alternating tractor-pressor inward against the chasm's wall and powdered my way forward. The first layer powdered at my feet and swept outward into the chasm below. Soon I was scrabbling with hands and knees to force the dust backward behind me. Fortunately the mono-molecular layers filled less space than their more complcx forms and air from the cliasm swept in behind me as the stone ahead powdered to the floor. Mile after mile I bored ahead. When tired, I rested. Then I bored again for miles. Days passed. Even my gladiator's physique suffered from lack of nourishment. My body became sluggish, my mind tormented by memories of the sneering laughter and redspurting throat of Trevic Strenger and by the graceful body and full lips of his daughter. The latter vision filled my mind to overflowing until my muscles responded. I pressed on, even forgetting which way was up and which down and distrusting my fatigued senses for knowledge of either direction. Dust filled my mouth, my eyes, my ears and, it seemed, even my mind, until I could go no farther. With one last effort at survival I shoved my poundage and my machine against the wall, lurched forward. Under sudden acceleration both the machine and my body fell outward and down as the thin wall between my tunnel and the opening broke through. My body revolved around and around. Centrifugal force flung my arms and legs outward as I plunged through a narrow fissure. I strained my back, neck and belly muscles to bring my turning to a stop but did not succeed. Light glimmered several hundred feet below and my frustrated mind focused on it until my spinning made it appear a whole galaxy of light particles swinging around me in tighter and tighter circles. My mind let go. My back and head hit the water first. To this day, I am unaware of the extent of the true damage done to me in the fall. V H ow long did I lie there? Weeks? Days? Minutes? No one will ever know. I do know that hundreds of thousands of scraps of their educative process passed through my mind, only one of which I remembered on regaining consciousness. " The time has come,' the Walrus said, 'to talk of many things: Of shoes -- and ships -- and sealing wax -- Of cabbages -- and kings -- ' " Could any thought have been more out of place and foolish or less useful? On returning to consciousness, I found my body to be whole and undamaged but bruised terribly. Water was washing over me. Some trickled into my open mouth and some laved my nose and ears, trailing my hair downstream like fine wires extended. My right arm lay under me, touching the rocky stream bed below. My left arm lay partially submerged, the hand resting on a shallow bank. IF My legs were upstream, resting on rock. My eyes were pasted shut by the dust around their rims. Soon I became aware of the mining tool's soft hum and the gentle tugging and pulling of my flesh under its influence. I waved my right hand around in a circle and felt the broken chain with which I had attached the mining tool to my chest. I scraped mud from my swollen eyes, opened them and found I could see. Phosphorescent particles emitted sufficient photons for me to view my surroundings dimly. The mining instrument was on and pointed steadily in my direction. I drank until my shrunken belly was fully distended, then lay back to rest and to sleep peacefully under the gentle vibration and hum of the tractor-pressor beam. Probably never before in history had a human being been subjected so long to the rapid alternate pull and push of the tractor-pressor beam. Would its effect be harmful? I didn't know. When I awoke I crawled again to the stream, taking my fill. Below me I could see the shining shapes of water creatures, among them the unmistakably welcome shape of a fish. I struck with my right hand and grabbed the unwary creature tightly. Its cold flesh furnished my first nourishment in what seemed like months but may have been only days. A gain I slept, then ate and slept again. Later I walked over to my mining instrument and turned it off. I felt light-headed, but oddly healthy and not in the least tired. I attributed this to the effect of poisons manufactured by my own system under unusual stress and at the time had no idea of the damage done to my body. I could have acted no differently under the conditions. Suffice it to say that I felt unusually alert and full of a sense of well-being, though attributing all of these characteristics to normal results of excessive stress. I began my long walk along the stream hopefully toward light, air and freedom, packing the mining instrument on my back once more. The walls of the stream bed became narrower. Soon they reached a point where my broad shoulders could no longer squeeze through. My way forward was finally halted by granite blocks. With almost a swagger of confidence, certainly more than the moment warranted, I unlimbered the tractor-pressor and blasted my way out. T he ship waited for me at my exit point. Of course -- use of tractor or pressor beams anywhere on the planet could be easily followed by Strenger and his men. I turned too late to reenter my cavern retreat. A rock bounded from my head and I fell forward to lie unconscious once again. When I gained consciousness, my feet were trussed together, my arms tied behind my back and my head ached. I was in a cabin. Two gnarled men sat in front of me, alternately eating and gawking. Was I back in the arena? Were these my new keepers? I strained at the bonds on my hands and feet but the ties were stronger than I. I humped my body to a sitting position and looked at my two captors, hatred washing through me in waves. "Pretty, ain't he?" the one on my left said to the other. "Needs a bath though. Think we could oblige him?" Both stopped eating. One tied a drag rope to my legs and hauled me outside the cabin to a nearby spring. My flesh was torn and bleeding from the sharp rocks and sticks over which I was dragged and my head was still dizzy from the blow on my head but I uttered no complaint. They pulled the rope end over an overhanging rock until I was dangling upside down over the water, my head scant inches from its surface. I took a deep breath, expecting the worst. It came. I was dunked under water seven or eight times, probably saved from drowning only by my one-G physique and high lung capacity. I was dragged back into the cabin, trussed up against the post and forgotten for the time being. T hey finished their dinner, checked various instruments lying around the cabin, then turned back to me. The older one -- gray-haired and with a stubble-covered chin -- was the first to speak directly to me. "You might as well tell us why you were snooping around our private weblon mine. It's your only chance of saving your life." My mind, now quite confused, failed to function as quickly as it might have under gladiator conditions. I said nothing. IF me and said, "f you are a I coughed some water from my government agent we will let you burning lungs and said, "I am go free on another planet. It's a gladiator. I have no name." "All gladiators have names," the first one said. "Besides, what would a gladiator be doing using pressor-tractor equipment in these mountains? Come on, iellow -- if you value your life -- tell us the truth." I strained every muscle of my body to burst the bonds. At last my body sagged. I knew a spasm of futility before I lost consciousness again. I came to inside their ship. The interior was pure luxury and there I learned how the gawkers had searched for me in vain. I was one of the most popular heroes of all Sabre history -- my life was public property and not even Trevic Strenger, dictator over all, would dare to violate it openly. But no trace of me was found until my mining equipment had been sensed by these lawviolating miners near their illegal mine. I was kept bound inside their ship while they checked and double-checked my now cleanshaven features with pictures taken during my gladiator days. Convinced I was truly the escaped Grand Champion, they struck my bonds, not knowing how close they were to true death at the moment. I soon learned that everywhere I was loved by the people. But I felt certain that I would still be unsafe anywhere on a planet ruled by Trevic Strenger and his type. hoping to get back to my brood world one day. But how could I flee when my two goals of hate and love were here? Not only would deserting them be unnatural to my brood training -- it was unnatural to the ' unusual state of my biology, still deeply hidden from my conscious processes. Still, in violation of every instinct, I left civilization behind to flee toward the Planet of Rocks of my birth. Seven long light-years lay ahead, meaning months of travel. Hundreds of thousands of strange worlds would be silently, unknowingly passed as we sped onward. How many contained brood worlds? How many had produced two-and-a-half-G monstrosities like Urut of Ewit? How many contained Patricia Strengers or Trevic Strengers? How many had educated barbarian champions and how many even held the humanoid form? The days passed slowly. I became acquainted with the two outlaws. An objective study of their patterns of behavior gave me a certain recognition of their finer shadings of emotions. All three of us were outside the law but these two still subscribed to certain ethics and species-assisting patterns of behavior -- much as each of the brood helps another for the sake of survival of the whole. Unlike the brood, they had days IF when their minds were dominated by mixtures of pure emotions. They certainly exhibited pure forms of overt anger and calm complacency but they also showed fine shadings of moroseness and languor. I began to recognize emotional subtleties and, for the first time, began to question my pure hatred response to Trevic Strenger. Was he really as bad as I had projected or did he, too, have comprehensible feelings and behavior-motives mixed into his treatment of me? One day I noted the outlaws' deep concern for one dial on the ship's panel. Daily the dial's indicator swung upward and daily other instruments were checked and rechecked against it. Presently I read their concern -- patrols were on our path. A whole fleet crawled toward us, closing in slowly. There are no maneuvers that can deceive a determined fleet. Our only hope lay in an act of some god who, out of the goodness of his being and the emptiness of space, would reach outward and hand us some device or means by which to escape. To make matters worse, I had no place to stand and make the fight mine, using my gladiator's training. I felt trapped like an animal and could almost feel civilization's magnetic cages crush through my bones again. My chest, where I had worn the metal band of servitude, had healed and was covered with keloids. I wanted no more slavery. One slim hope remained to me. My captors searched the directory for any kind of planet with breathable air. Then they began long-range perturbation analysis of surrounding stars, hoping to spot planets within range. One bright yellow sun on our pathway seemed to offer hope and they quickly adjusted our route slightly to pass near its planets. We swung inward in a giant cycloidal loop, and an automatic analysis assured us that one planet, fourth from center, had breathable, oxidizing air. But now our range was within the patrol's striking power and their beams reached out for hundreds of thousands of miles to vibrate our craft ceaselessly. Though weakened structurally, we recklessly approached the planet's atmosphere, dropping swiftly into its density to skip and skip again as the craft was buffeted by the force of its own passage. Now weakened further and red from heat, it plunged at even sharper angles until its tail section broke off and our front portion spun uncontrolled toward the water below. VI T he miners must surely have been killed in the plunge. At the time I attributed my survival to my gladiator's training and my powerful physique. I had bunched my muscles together and dived out the ship an instant before it splashed. I hit hard, maybe as hard as Unit had hit me. Maybe a little harder -- I don't know. In any case my body sustained the shock and I swam to the surface, spotting land perhaps ten miles away. Toward this I swam and just before sundown reached the sandy beach where I lay in exhausted stupor. The jungle ahead of me was unrecognizable. Whether fern or animal, flora or fauna, I could not tell. Only experience would show. Food was my immediate concern. Next came shelter and water. I rose, rather unnaturally recovered, and strode confidently into the strange organic configurations ahead. Suddenly my emotional complex dropped from open elation and overwhelming optimism to complete apathy. Death would have seemed a pleasant release. Striving always with my gladiator's training and the stubborness born of brood world, I consciously searched everywhere without success -- no recognizable cause was creating my emotional void. Down the scale of emotions my feelings plummeted -- and slowly and silently the fibrous matting of the jungle undulated toward me. It was white with streaks of gray running through it and gave the appearance of some broadpatterned. supine foliage which moved like a leech. Who could tell what it really was? I wanted to back away but my apathy was too deep. I stood in an abandonment of despair, even squatting so the slimy thing could more easily flow up my body. My apathy was dense -- as dense as thick glue -- and the thing nearly covered my back. I squatted lower to let it cover more of me, then felt its acid trickle over my skin. Apathy prevailed -- nonetheless, under the stimulus of pain, my gladiator's instinct snapped my body erect and my hands and feet flung the horrible thing from me. Acid had etched the skin all over my back, neck, arms and shoulders. Just as suddenly as the skin had been destroyed my body began its preconditioned, rapid repairs, though at the time I was too busy to give the phenomenon thought. thing flowed toward me as before and my apathy was as leaden as before. Why should I move when all of life seemed so useless, so hopeless? W. Shakespeare did not quite say it, but my mind, sunken in depths beyond conscious control and mired in the IF facts of the educators, paraphrased it as: "O mighty barbarian -- dost thou lie low? Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils, shrunk to this little measure?" I will say this about the paraphrase -- at least there was some relation between its semantics and my condition of the moment, though there was little else to recommend it. Yet my fighting instinct had been aroused and at another level of my being I exploringly fought back. First I strove for excitement and the adrenalin lift which accompanies it. Then I strove to force enthusiasm into the cellular portions of my body -- to no avail. Whatever force the thing had, my manufactured enthusiasm was not the answer. I let my body freely wage swift endocrine war as my emotions tore from cheerfulness through antagonism, overt anger, covert anger, resentment, fear, grief and apathy. Nothing manufactured by my b(y for my body helped. As the thing crawled closer I switched my endocrine war outward against the whole world of loops and snakelike whorls around me, raging within my soul but nonetheless subtly spouting torrents of emotion outward through some unseen orifice of my stilled body. It was when I again hit the apathy band that the thing stilled. Each time my body broadcast apathy, it retreated a little farther. My body had instinctively found the key to survival on this planet. The thing's emotional load lifted from my body. Again I felt lighthearted and full of a sense of health, though I still poured tons of black apathy at the crawling thing now scurrying away so rapidly. I turned back to the tangle of organic misshapes and little by little ferreted out its secrets. The ropy black serpent-like form dangling from above responded to fear. The flapping fan-like objects responded to overt anger and the other dangers responded to other emotions either singly or in combination. be identified as food, but now that I was learning to walk through the jungle by casting my emotions externally here and there, I followed the first stream upward with hopes of learning what was edible and what was not. Clearly the acid and baseforming entities were inedible. Time after time I succumbed to all their emotional complexities, learning only after their acidic or basic sting to fling them off and redirect my emotions outward. Time after time, my skin rapidly healed itself. Order began to appear from the chaos surrounding me. I watched the slinker root, a slob of jellylike flesh that looked like a weathered tree-root from my Planet of the Rocks, as it flushed out its quarry, a small blob of milksac covered with horny projections. Using almost pure fear, its emotion swept outward to cover growths of pink and purple velvety layers of some vertical materials. From the bottom of this growth the milksac animals -- if that's what they were -- rushed directly toward the j e I I y I i k e growth. There they were easily held until the chemical base dissolved their vital layers, after which they were absorbed into the attacker's system. For lack of better hunch, I followed the next jellylike sack. It captured a victim, I tore it away from its grasp, using my hands for the act of tearing and my emotions for the act of neutralizing the strange beast. I placed the juices of the injured beast on my tongue and found them sweet -- but some poisons are sweet. I didn't know the difference but my body did -- or so I thought at the time. I chewed and swallowed and stayed healthy. Looking back on the experience now, I wonder. Did my body adapt to the alien food or did my instinct determine what was food and what was not? I ate my way across thousands of miles of outrageous growths and forms as I traveled from coast to coast across one great continent. Occasionally I hid from search ships -- the Patrol would not rest until our bodies were discovered, I reasoned. I left no daily trail by use of tractor or pressor beam and my human body could hide among the fibrous, gelatinous, oozing, slinking, stinking mess around me. I crossed two mountain ranges, walking high above the lifeplateau, living for weeks on air, water, fat and determination. Lonely pools of water were to be found at these higher levels. T he longer I survived in tliat emotional jungle the more grip I had on my own emotions -- until I could instantly turn up the emotion of hate against Trevic Strenger or the passion and hunger of love for his daughter. I soon was aware of his ships less often and rightly assumed their surveillance of the planet to be more or less precautionary and automatic. Now I wanted the ships down, but only under my own terms. The problem was to attract their attention in order to make them a bit suspicious -- but not overly so -- and to trap the trappers. Fire is common to most planets -- but during a year's survival on this one, I had never IF seen a conflagration. I assumed that the patrol would also have observed this obvious fact. Could I make the unnatural happen by natural means? The unnatural did happen but in a different way. I found a large piece of metal with fused pieces and burned spots. Either our ship or another had caused this piece to be flung across the continent where it burned and fused on entry into the atmosphere; but whatever the true case, I had the part I needed to attract Strcngcr's persistent watchers. Above the organic line, which is also above the rain line, are mountains, thin dry air and pools of water resting in bowls of rock lined with streaks of nearly pure lead. No w'eather or natural disturbance occurs at these heights or does so only occasionally. The pools are remnants of another era in the planet's ecology. Before placing my plan into action, I had much work ahead and hoped my body was equal to its task. First, I found the pool nearest to the organic growth line. The pool I chose featured rocks jutting overhead. From one of these overhangs I tossed in more stones until the pile below the water's level was nearly to its surface. I then lowered a large organic membrane to this new rock level under the surface, folding it into a kind of loosely formed bag with its corners and sides above water. I tied the corners together loosely and tied the other end to a rock overhead. Within the newly separated layer of water I slowly lowered the spaceship's metal part, keeping one end high above the rock projection and lowering the other end to the bottom of the waterfilled bag. I tied another piece of organic rope to the top of the metal structure and looped its end to a rock some seven feet back from the water's edge. Then, carefully, I pulled on the metal, bending it farther and farther until it just touched a streak of partially oxidized lead jutting from the banks of the pool. Again and again I pulled the metal until I was in absolute control of its motion and could touch the lead streak with the ease of long practice. T he next day I drove hundreds of organic entities ahead of me, using only the apathy band, for I had learned that this emotion was associated w'ith acid-bearing life. Up the rocks tliey tumbled and rolled, gyrated, squirmed and crawled until the pool was reached. When the pool was made sufficiently acid by these monsters, I went after the base-bearing kind, using covert hostility for the drive, and I also drove them into the pool without qualms. There the the bases partially neutralized the acids, forming a serviceable electrolyte. How many beasts of which kind should I drive to create the huge battery I wanted? I did not know. Neither did I know about the permeability of the membrane sectioning off some liquid from the rest, nor the difference in electrolytic potential between the streaks of partially oxidized lead crawling along the pond's basin and the unknown metal now jutting above the pond's surface. With so many unknowns I could only try -- perhaps to fail and try again. After rest I pulled the metal down to the lead streak by means of the attached rope and was rewarded by observing a weak spark as the gap nearly closed. I returned to the herding of more creatures. Night came and the following day and I still herded creatures to the pond, testing the spark size with every new batch. I hoped that the spark of light could be seen from a spaceship at night -- or at least that the electro-magnetic waves radiating from the source would alert the patrolling monitors. I had not figured on the quick response which actually occurred. I was driving my last batch of creatures ahead when the ship came. I crouched behind the rocks to watch when the rays hit and I was stuck rigid to the spot. Through instruments of science or intellect, possibly both, they had outwitted me again. I was incapable of moving a muscle. The ship I had seen was the decoy. Another one had landed somewhat earlier to trap me. vir T here were two of them, one on either side of me, and they held me fast with heavy portable pressors. I strained with every bit of muscle tissue to no useful end. All around me the life I had driven from the jungle below boiled in confusion and from that movement came my idea. I summoned my energy and emoted apathy, driving the group toward one of the men. He faltered, then fell under the onslaught. The other also slumped. The pressors slipped from me and I ran to each man in turn. One pressor I threw into the acid pond. The second I focused on the ship, wedging it between two rocks. I turned to the fallen men. One was encrusted with an acid which had eaten deeply. Almost dead, he would be of no help to me. The other was visibly shaken. I ran my own emotional output back up and down the scale several times until I could key into his basic confusion, then brought him up to a comfortable emotional level. IF "How many arc in the ship?" I quietly asked. "Three. But who arc you? What are you doing alone on this surrealistic planet?" Now it's strange, but up to that point I had not thought of myself as a name. On the planet of my birth I was just one of the brood and could easily be identified by smell or appearance. On the Sabre planet I was known as barbarian or Champion or Grand Champion. Here on an alien planet, under an alien sun, I was again being asked a most fundamental question whose answer I could not give. "Are you on regular patrol around this planet?" I asked. "Yes." "What are your duties?" "We are to observe and report any slightest irregularity in shape or phenomenon or behavior over the whole planet's surface." "How long has your patrol had the planet under surveillance?" "Better than a year. Ever since outlaws were seen to approach the planet." I moved the patrolman closer to the pressor beam so that I could more quickly reach its controls if I needed to. "What did you expect to find here?" I asked. "None of us knows. We merely take orders. We sighted the pond's heat activity by auto-infrared surveillance and watched you at work. It was then we laid our trap to capture you and find out what was happening." "Are you a follower of the gladiators?" I asked. "Who isn't?" he replied. He looked up expectantly. "Then you are familiar with the disappearance of your Grand Champion over a year and a half ago?" H e looked me over from top to bottom before answering, then said excitedly, "Why, I believe you are he. Yes -- you must be -- " His emotions bounced from my artificially maintained level to his interest and sincerity. "If you are indeed the Grand Champion of a year ago -- you should know that your status is that of a free man. After your successful fight with Urut of Evvit and your escape from the arena you were declared free by the enthusiasm and will of all the people. How did you get here?" At one time I might have snarled and growled at this representative of their civilization. Now my mind froze as my conscious portion became aware of my own lack of emotional response to him. I listened politely and rationally to his talk. My mind, though, buzzed with consternation. Was I wTong to hate Trevic Strenger so? Was their world really all bad? Would I have been better off on the Planet of the Rocks, chasing rock wolves and fighting with others of the brood? Then, against all the instincts which make up a brood world barbarian, I freed the man and docilely followed him to his ship. The way back to Sabre planet was filled with wining and dining in the best of the patrol tradition. Word went out that the Grand Champion had survived shipwreck on a horribly inimical planet, and space for parsecs around was charged with the news. My fame had spread -- and my prowess increased. I had been the Greatest of Grand Champions and had so been declared on official gladiator roles. And only Trevic Strenger knew my true status but even he was not certain how I bad come to be found on the forlorn Planet of Emotion. puters battling one another. Trevic Strenger knew that every move I made might lead inevitably to his death -- for I still meant to keep my vow. I knew that anything he did might cause my destruction directly or indirectly. He held the power, the education and the experience. I was the Great Grand Champion, beloved of the people and not entirely unused to facing the thought of daily danger. Urut of Ewit was now champion, for no ordinary one-G humanoid had been able to withstand his stamina, strength and speed once he had grown experienced in one-G conditions. Between Urut and myself the people gawked as only gawkers can. When I entered the gladiator stands, the gawkers stood and cheered for fifteen minutes. On the other side, far away from my grasping hands, Trevic Strenger sat surrounded by his sycophants and guards. Did I still wish him ill? I genuinely did not know. I knew only that I meant to kill him. Urut entered and the crowd applauded with enthusiasm. Today was his show as well as mine. Then Trevic began his clever move against me. He arose, stilled the crowd, announced that it was only fitting that the newest and best of champions, Urut of Ewit, be challenged by the world's Great Grand Champion. As he knew it would, the idea caught the gawkers' imagination and they howled their approval. I was committed before my barbaric wits could form a defensive reply. Only by sustaining the people's good will could I be safe from Trevic and he had cleverly made use of the situation. I had to IF fight. I flung off my civilized accouterments and leaped into the arena, no longer bound by chest band, free to enter and leave whenever I wished. I caught the tractor and pressor beams, tying them quickly to my ankles and wrists, and waited for Urut to move. He looked at me sadly from his heavy-lidded eyes and parrot-shaped mouth and I knew he had no desire for what he felt was sure to come. H IS first blow, with pressor, was light and I knew he was pulling his attack. As any other one-G gladiator would be, I was clumsy, slow and weak compared to Urut. I was also out of training. At any time he could have decapitated me or ripped my body to shreds, for his timing was perfect. For purpose of show. I'm sure, he let me cartwheel him several times and the gawkers thought my response would soon build in duration and quality. I knew and he knew that we were mismatched and that he had the advantage. Survival on the Planet of Emotion had taught me that emotion, too, can be a club if only one knows how to generate it. I had much practice and while Urut had his will with me -- now under tractor lock, then under pressor throw -- I sought the key to the emotions in his humanoid bulk. My endocrine system worked rapidly, generating pure emotions from apathy to grief, resentment to fear, boredom to happiness. None worked. I then tried combinations as I had learned to do on the Planet of Emotions. Once I saw Urut falter briefly and pause to stare from glazed eyes. I thought then I had the key but lost the combination. My powerful physique was tiring fast. Urut had pressors on opposite sides of my body and tractors at right angles, on opposite sides. I was being simultaneously squeezed and pulled on different body sections. I could almost feel cartilage tear and muscle tissues pop. The gawkers were yelling for blood as I continued my search. I caught the emotional combination to his alien form and Urut paused again briefly. I drove my emotional wedge in and he faltered. He stumbled and fell to his chest as I slowly rose from the sand, giving every appearance of pushing back on pressors and pulling back from tractors still clinging to me. The gawkers screamed. As my body strengthened, my emotional output rose and Urut twitched in agony. I have no idea what the emotional content meant to his way of life; but it was a powerful antidote to his physical superiority. By the time I reached his side, my body was fully recovered and, using every ounce of my two hundred pounds of muscle, I might have been able to decapitate him. I looked to the crowd and asked their pleasure and I thanked the great brood-God that nearly all screamed for his release. The gawkers yelled, stamped their feet and clapped their hands together. For them the solution had the appeal of a well-laid plot. How else could they have both their Great Grand Champion and the newest Champion to carry on with their future entertainment? T he day of Strenger's trap ended and I rested in my public-donated apartment that was lined with trophies of my earlier slave-status wins. Now, I thought, it was my turn against Strenger. My plan took form. During my planning stages and the impasse to follow the faulty educative process to which I had been subjected caused A. Zlinsky's ph rase to repeat through my mind. It ran: "To the wise go words!" A meaningless utterance. I tried to suppress it. It wouldn't go away, so I found myself trying to rationalize it. I did need a true and honest education to compete with Strenger -- maybe that was what Zlinsky's silly quotation meant. I don't know. But eventually it led me directly to more efficient and better organized educators. The habit pattern my mind had developed of tracing all knowledge through quotations or simulated quotations whenever possible was disturbing. My new educators explained that I would slowly lose the habit with time if I made a conscious effort to do so and that it arose from faulty use of the educator when I was a gladiator trainee. Time passed. I became more acclimated to civilized behavior patterns. My emotional control was nearly perfect and I could more easily read the emotional patterns of others. Were it not for my vow against Strenger's life, I might have learned to enjoy my new free status. When I was invited to attend the annual fealty procession and to serve as one of many state showpieces for public consumption, I could not help but suspect that Trevic Strenger's next trap was ready. My own plan was shelved and I prepared myself to look for any opening, regardless of cost to myself. approach Trevic Strenger's seat within a matter of feet, I knew our day of confrontation had come and that I was being baited. He couldn't know of my new ability to manipulate emotion, with which I would trap trapper. I took his challenge. On each IF leg and arm I attached secret pressor and tractor beams and joined the grand procession. Behind the others, I slowly approached his position to give my symbol of fealty to the state. I could sense Trevic's muscles tighten as I approached him. His emotions became snarled and bent by covert hostility. I grabbed his emotions by means of my new talents and twisted them down through grief and apathy. Downward they went until his face became placid, his arms and neck muscles relaxed and his whole stance presented a hopelessness. Only one person stood between Trevic and me and that one quickly left, urged on by another emotional impulse from my hulking body. I faced Strenger as if he and I were alone in the world. His eyes seemed to plead and I scorned him, for what power could this emotional invalid have over me? And then I knew that my hate for him was over and I dropped my long vow of hate and vengeance. Suddenly the floor dropped from under me. Instantly my reflexes snapped on tractors and pressors and I curved my body into the best stance to slow my fall. Slow it would not! Somewhere above me automatics caught and sheared off my powers. No matter how I scrambled and twisted my body, the machinery kept up with my efforts, seeming to anticipate every one of my merely human emotions. The fall was not far. I landed catlike on all fours and bounded up to my feet again. Automatic machinery continued to nullify my pressors and tractors and steel bars surrounded me. Light came from the walls outside my new steel cage. I heard a door open in the outside wall and then Trevic Strenger's careful tread. He did not smile; neither did he frown. I reached forward with my emotions to engulf him in apathy again but he spoke quickly. "Turn off your machinery, barbarian. Throw out your tractor and pressor beams, too. I expected you to try for my life again and, as you can see, your attempt has not and cannot succeed. Face up to the fact that your machinebuilt education is only veneerdeep, your emotional control is uncivilized and your continuous attempts to kill me are more barbaric than our gladiator's arena. At least, there you know the rules." outward but remained silent. "That's better," he said. "At least you are intelligent enough to know when you are captured. That's more than I could say for you when I first caught you on your Planet of the Rocks. You fought until exhaustion then. Why not now?" I remained quiet but watchful. I read less emotional hatred in his voice and actions than before, perhaps because I projected less of my own thoughts into the situation. "I don't know what mutational talent you used to control my emotions to such a deep apathy before I triggered your fall into this chamber," he continued, "but I can assure you, you are here to stay until this senseless hatred of me is gone or -- as is most likely from your stubborn character -- you die of old age. Which shall it be?" Unbidden to my mind came Farragut's thought, "Damn the torpedoes! Go ahead!" I pushed it below my conscious level and spoke to Trevic for the first time since his capture of me. "I thought to kill you upstairs but then realized its futility just before your trap door opened. My hate has burned itself out." He smiled and I noted how pleasant the smile was -- not at all malevolent as I had believed for so long. "How can I believe your statement now?" he asked. "You have urged me to accept the civilization you represent. What guarantee do I have that it consists of the advantages you have told me about?" "Try it," he said instantly. "Then try me," I also said instantly. He laughed at my answer and seemed to consider my request quite seriously. He reflected only minutes, however, then bravely motioned to his retainers. "Free him." The bars around me rose and I faced Trevic Strenger, separated by only feet. I could easily have killed him at that moment. IX Y ears had passed since Trevic's momentous decision to free me. Sitting at the helm of this tiny empire known as the Sabre planets I looked back with nostalgia at my innocent entrance into its society. Man had gone to the stars and returned, gone again. And those remaining at home had formed a weakened gene reservoir. Noting this state of affairs, man had returned the gladiator games to his home planet and then had forcibly invited back the barbaric and the humanoid -- any mutational sports or freaks bearing new and untested genes were brought to Earth as gladiators. Here in the arena of strength, agility, intelligence and courage the long screening took place -- its IF purpose to find new blood for the human race. Those freed, like myself, were the backbone of humanity's new drive outward and inward. Slowly man returned his genetic protoplasm to an honored, aggressive, survival status. I'll not forget the day of my final release from both the steel cell and my own inward-driven emotions. Trevic Strenger stood before me, bravely waiting for me to call his bluff -- to kill him suddenly or to accept his offer for civilized peace. He waited. Then suddenly he tore off his shirt and I could see the thickened keloids around his chest where his gladiator band had once burned into him. Patricia Strenger, hair now grayed, skin wrinkled, figure long gone, sat by my side. She crushed my hand in thoughtful empathy as I looked down on the newcomer from far beyond the Sabre planets. His hatred of me was volatile and could have exploded at any moment, were it a gaseous compound. I could have dulled the edge of his emotions with my own freakish control over external emotions, of course, but this would also crush his spirit. Who knew? Perhaps the young barbarian below me would be my replacement. I smiled at the thought, all the time knowing that he would interpret my brief flicker as a sneering grin of hatred. To my mind came unbidden phrases from quotes of our ancient past and I had finally learned to reconcile my thoughts to their contents. J. Christ had said, "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." I signaled to have the snarling barbarian thrown into our ship and prepared myself for our long trek home.  R obert sat up slowly and cautiously on his bed in the white, quiet room. Like a membrane on the infinitely clean skeleton of his immediate universe the rumpled sheet relaxed across his legs, curving maternally around the mattress corners like the wings of a great albino bat. Shifting his eyes from side to side with nervous prudence, Robert held himself still for an hour, then two, and three -- he jumped in surprise when air happened to whistle through his own nostrils. Under the flaccid marble of his brow, morning thoughts continued to swarm from his two personalities. But he was always calm, so his walls were smooth, sans pads. IF "Oh, Tve been here a long time, and, oh, I haven't moved in a long long time. I'd like to move, to straighten that wrinkle on this bed -- grab that fly right out of this room's sky. But let me tell you, if I started to do either of those things, Dad would warn me not to. It's as simple as that. Dad's always around and he knows what I shouldn't do, and he tells me. "Oh, if I stretched my arm and touched the fly. Dad would stretch his arm from wherever he is and touch my face. And the power of Dad's slapping hand would be like my hand squashing that fly. "That woman with the tray of food -- she calls herself a nurse and tells me that I'm in a hospital -- but I must be at home if Dad's voice is here as it is all the time. Sec the tray and the nurse? I'd call to her right now but Dad would hear me and smack me. "Dad lets me eat breakfast, lunch and dinner. So I'm stretching out my hand and touching the tray. Dad lets me chew, too, and swallow, which I'm doing. "There is also pie on the tray. It smells good and -- " No, Bobby! That pie is sweet, bad for you, for your teeth. Bad for your veins, bad for your mind. Tve told you a thousand times -- eat to live, don't live to eat. It says so in the Bible and Benjamin Franklin, great man of the United States of America, said so, too. No pie. Tell pie goodbye. "Goodbye, pie. See, Dad knows what I shouldn't eat and he tells me what not to eat. If I had licked one bit of that lemon pie I would have blood on my nose now or bmised red eheeks or purple eyes like those Dad always gives me when I do bad things." Y ou ask me again what it was like back then. Before Robert. Mainly I was young, a researeher for Decade. I wrote my bit for the magazine but I was basically as unaware as anyone else in the nation. Do your really think my memory is worth anything? Okay, but it's your ear that will suffer. P for Parapsychology and Pctrocelle. Let's begin with the doctor, since he is credited -- or blamed -- for starting it all. Dr. Sebastian Pctrocelle led the invasion of the mental hospitals in #. As a persecuted member of the Defense Department he had the right and the obligation to do just that. In fact, it had been one of his own colleagues -- the lone mystic found in the department -- who had discovered that the mentally ill seemed to possess awesome powers in prect para-cetera. When the initial report on the significant correlations was at last released, psychologists, psychiatrists and psychoanalysts around the world arose, wide-eyed and bushy-brained, seized the problem by the throat and wrote the equivalent of five thousand volumes of War and Peace in just one month after the discovery. Older doctors of the psyche who were reluctant to accept the fact of extrasensory perception and the boat and failed to adorn themselves with all those doctorate degrees that went up for grabs because of the giant litter of possible thesis topics sired by the Discovery. course, a scientist's self-assurance that extrasensory merely involved some yet undiscovered sense that had its own easily comprehensible laws of order -- embraced the crucial question: "Is the presence of extrasensory perception and conception in the metally ill the result or the cause of the mental illnesses?" Of the five thousand rambling nonfictive books written to answer that question, one thousand responded: "Illness is the cause." One thousand claimed: "Illness is the result." The remaining three thousand concluded in faddish anti-Black Box manner, "The two cannot be considered independently -- no clear-cut cause-effect relationship is evident." Dr. Petrocelle did eventually read one of the five thousand Great World Articles written on ject. That article happened to be the prototype of all of them and had been written by a colleague. Consistent with Petrocelle's usual MO, his perusal of the article came twelve months after he led the invasion of the mental hospitals, twelve months after his grandiose faux pas with Robert Johnson. Petrocelle, having spilt the Defense Department's milk, was in a rest home when he finally got around to reading it. sole concern was for the power illness correlation. "Power for progress," he was known to say, "and progress in competion with the Enemy -- who hasn't always been the enemy but happens to be now." Dr. Petrocelle received easy finance for his search for the power potential simply because his usual skepticism about parapsychology and other occult fields was well known. His was also a skepticism recognized, respected, and matched by the feelings of men who doled Defense Department coin. "If our Dr. Petrocelle really sees something in this mental illness-mental power stuff, then IF (here must be something to it." Little did they know that was understatement. As it was, Dr. Pctrocelle was grasping for straws and could not truly chance being skeptical. His career in the Defense Department was at stake. When questioned about the rather nebulous nature of parapsychology and his search for said, "We are encouraged." This meant that he and his colleagues hadn't contributed significantly to National Defense for more than five years, that they feared, therefore, admissions of anything but optimism and that for personal survival's sake Petrocelle that verged on being science. As typical of frantic government antics, a machine was somehow thrown together, constructed to test roughly for the presence of what the public now was terming "mind power." Petrocelle and associates chose, instead, to call this power FA -- for for titer animae -- a feeble incorporation of an overly romantic Latin phrase for adding dignity to their work -- while at the same time they refrained from entering the Greek nomenclature tradition out of fear that a failure on their part would taint that wonderful medical language. The machine was called an electroFAgraph. Dr. Petrocelle was encouraged as soon as his electroFAgraph discovered a Breton State mental patient with a sizzling FA potential. At first Petrocelle remained uncertain about the degree of the power latent in the discovered patient -- but his uncertainty soon vanished when the final shock treatment prescribed for the patient brought the poor man abruptly from his mental and physical immobility. Unfortunately the shock therapy only gave the patient motion -- he still remained quite insane. A policeman had to shoot him to death when he used his FA to puncture a ten-foot hole in the hospital wall, hoping to escape. The officer shot him because, in the lawman's own words, "He just wouldn't stop coming." And everyone did admit that the man in blue couldn't have handled the FA maniac with his bare hands. Before the bullet punctured a much smaller but equally formidable hole in his belly, the FA wielder spoke his not-soon-to-beforgotten words: "I must get away!" Everyone assumed this was a reference to hospital confinement. The policeman was not the sort of man who usually shot at mental patients. The variable factor this time was that all the plaster flying from the hospital wall reminded him of a grade-B movie he had once seen, called Earth versus the Mind Master -- a film that had offered a hot scene where a policeman was lucky enough to shoot the first seven-foot mind master that landed on Earth -- lucky because after that incident no human being was in any mental condition to shoot at anything. After the accidental execution of his prodigy Petrocelle grew cautious and more scientific. He snapped into action, brought more men to his side -- allegedly for recording, experimenting, and learning but actually for verbal support of the doctor in case the FA venture didn't progress fast enough for the government's taste. At Adaja State mental hospital Dr. Petrocelle and the FA machine discovered a second patient. His electroFAgraph sizzled in a nostalgically similar way to the late Breton State patient's. tCoo you've given me the cliniical report on Robert," Professor Stapleton said. "But I don't understand how you're going to cure his schizophrenia with my machine and on top of that get him to work for the government with his FA when he is cured. I'm a professor. Dr. Petrocelle, not a doctor or a government mind." "I know that. Stapleton. But you do know that machine of yours, and that's all the reason I want you here." Stapleton nodded doubtfully. "What we're going to do," Dr. Petrocelle continued, patting the teaching machine, "is crawl inside Robert's mind. Instead of teaching a sleeping student with your influential voice, you're going to crawl inside Robert's mind and you're going to convince both sides of his mind -- the father and son halves that render his whole being immobile and his FA only potential. Convince them that they should work together. Tell him that they agreed on things once upon a time and they should agree again forever. Robert will interpret your voice, Stapleton, as another father-voice, and his Bobby-son-voice will fuse with the critical father-voice he's created for himself. Then when you pull out of his mind, you'll leave tlie father and son reconciled, happy together, and Robert will be able to move again and to utilize his FA. When he's of one mind once more -- pardon the expression -- he'll be in our hands. What we must do is tell him that those disc-shaped wireless electrodes for the teaching machine are really just hearing aides so he can hear his father better -- Bobby will put them on and give us no trouble. He's never heard of a teaching machine and its apparatus before. Besides, he seems to be subnormal in intelligence." "How do you expect to get him to use his FA for the government? He might use it for IF himself to become a criminal, you know. That's what everyone has predicted for a situation like this." "In the morass of words in that report you're holding, it says Robert is both very religious and very patriotic -- as his real father was. Unfortunately for Robert's mental state -- but fortunately for our goals -- his father was also very strict. The patriotism, religious devotion and also the disciplinarianism of the fathervoice in Robert's mind will induce in the boy a fear of being unpatriotic -- among other things. We should have no problems." Stapleton looked a little pained, a little dubious. Dr. Petrocelle decided immediately on verbal anesthesia, his special talent. motherless since he was seven -- has always had a problem. His father was a paragon of discipline, matched only by the Inquisition with its brutality-for-a-highermorality's-sake. When very young, Robert grew accustomed to having his father criticize his every move with fiery words and physical abuse. Robert withdrew into himself, ceasing to function in any social way, barely eating, because even hidden in his own mind he could not escape the voice of his father. He's not autistic or catatonic, technically, but he's in a bad way. The habituation to criticism demanded that Robert fashion for himself a paternal gargoyle for his mind's shoulder. The father-voice is very real to Robert, though it is only a manifestation ' of his own generalized guilt feelings and conditioning. Unfortunately, or fortunately -- we haven't yet decided which -- Robert isn't very smart. "There was a certain method to Robert's father's disciplinary madness but Robert, very young and not too intelligent, couldn't discern it. Robert concluded subconsciously that his father in an ideal state would criticize everything a son did. So the father-voice now attacks most every one of Robert's motions or verbalizations. His survival instinct -- to put it simply -- forces Robert to believe his father wouldn't criticize a son's eating of the barest essentials -- but sometimes the boy does nearly starve to death. Sometimes, though very infrequently, as when he is waking, he'll speak words that express his omnipresent fear of his omnipotent and seemingly omnisagacious father." Ears numb. Professor Stapleton muttered, "Dear God." "So," Petrocelle concluded, his voice bursting from its monotone, "I want you, Stapleton, to get father and son together. Have a man to man talk with father and son. Okay?" R obert blinked and shifted on the bed. His tailbone was feeling all tingly numb and he shifted again, then looked at his hands slowly. His temples were adorned with disc-like attachments. "Oh, I want to bite my fingernail. Bite it with my teeth until it comes off like a crescent moon. But, oh, I know I shouldn't, so ril be good and think of other things. The sun is nice through the window. But it makes my nose itch and I want to scratch it." Boh, my son, scratching your nose is crass. It's bad manners. You could infect your nose, get it all red and puffy and look all diseased, too. You wouldn't want that would you? If you scratch your nose, you'll look like some urchin that hasn't had any upbringing, so -- "What is that? Someone calling me. And its not Dad." If someone's calling you, Bobby, don't listen! Don't just listen to any voice you hear. You can't always believe everything you hear. Listen to your father. Don't -- bobby! bobby's father! bobA new voice was telling him things. Don't listen to the voice! "Should I answer the voice? I think I'll answer the voice." 'No! The voice is of evil. "Why is the voice evil?" "So the voice is good. Dad?" I don't know. Bob. The voice could be good or bad. "Should I move from the bed to open the window to let cool air in while I listen to the new voice, which told me to do as I want?" "Should I open the window?" IF Yes, I guess you should do just exactly what you want to do, Bobby. D r. Petrocelle was excited. "Stapleton, did you see the way he finally decided to open that window? The crash of that window was a sound for sore ears. And he didn't even touch it. He just sat on his bed and finally let go of his will to open that window, so hard that it actually slammed open. What FA!" "Yes, I saw it and heard it, too." Stapleton was uncomfortable in the presence of the doctor's enthusiasm. He also felt guilty. "I'm glad we got out of his mind, though. A boy, just like a man, has a right to certain privacy of mind." "Certainly, certainly. Robert will be working for us now." Suddenly Petrocelle's enthusiasm waned slightly and he said, "I do wish you had said something to him about working for the nation, using his power for his country." "I told him he had the power to help others." "Yes, I know, but you should have said something about the nation. Well, anyway, he's patriotic -- his father was very patriotic. Robert's been talking to everyone all morning -- all the orderlies and doctors -- so we'll be able to make our point about his country easily enough." R obert smiled, said "hello" loudly to himself and stretched, keeping eyes proudly on the window. The sheets felt cool and he stroked them hard for the first time ever. "Oh, that window went up with quite a noise, didn't it?" Yes, Bob, it did. "The voice was right. I've got quite a power now." Yes, a good power, Bob. "I wish, dear Dad, that I knew what the voice came for, where it came from, what it was. It was like a ghost -- far-away sounding. But it made sense. Father and son. I love you, Dad, like a son should love his iather." And I love you too, son. The ghost voice was good to come and talk and be with us -- to make us understand what we should do, what you should do with your power. Whatever you want to do, isn't that right. Bob? Whatever you want, right? "Of course. I just wish I knew where the voice came from, what it was. I liked the voice. I'd like it to come back, you know." rd like it to come back too. Bob. We both want it to come back and be with us. It made us feel good, didn't it. Bob? "Yes, it sure did. Maybe if we listened hard we could hear it again. Can you hear it?" I don't know. "I think I can hear it, barely."  think I can hear it. We both love it and we want it to come back. I think I can hear it. "We can hear it." Yes, I think we can hear it. ME? "Yes, we can hear you. But who are you, why are you here?" 'Yes, why are you here? "I will think about you, too." Both of us, father and son, will think about you and why you're here and who you are. trocelle left Robert's room, the boy shut the door and began staring through the window at the sky. Four steps from the door outside, Petrocelle stopped the professor. He asked, "What was he talking about? The ghost voice is back? I didn't even get a chance to talk to him about it -- he just kept talking so damn cryptically about the ghost voice." Stapleton was angry. "He has imagined the teaching machine's voice -- my voice -- has returned. We have compounded now his schizophrenia. He has three voices in his head now." "Calm down. Nothing at all is wrong." Petrocelle looked him in the eye. "He has the power and nothing is going to change that, because he's happy now -- he's found an out, a way out of his frustration and misery from the critical father-voice. And he likes his FA power. The father-voice is all for that power now, too. The ghost voice he's imagined won't harm him. Now all we've got to do is talk to him about working for the defense of this nation." "Can't we just leave him alone with himself -- with his new selves -- for awhile. He looks so damn tired. He's gone through a great change." "We'll give him a night by himself and talk to him in the morning. Government dragons will be breathing down my neck if I don't get Robert moving on something productive soon. Ah, when they see him open windows as he can, kill flies as he can -- " Petrocelle was ecstatic. Stapleton mumbled. H ospital nurses, guards, local police and, without a resentatives were scurrying around the hospital. It took Stapleton thirty minutes to find Dr. Petrocelle. IF The doctor was leaning over a desk telephone in the main hospital office, his face a dirtysheet color and his eyes twitching with dark thoughts. "Robert's gone," Petrocelle said, the words slipping from limp lips. Stapleton sighed, shrugging his shoulders. "What did you expect? He was a boy on the move." "We didn't even get to talk about the nation and the country's defense plans for the next ten years. His power was to be the main focus." "He's a boy and he's just discovered a kind father and a new voice inside his head. Did you really think he'd stay inside the hospital when there's a whole world outside he can voyage through -- and when there's his power, a great big toy he can play with?" "Good Lord, Stapleton -- he's a patriotic boy, isn't he? He wouldn't harm his own country, would he? His power is so great -- " "No, I don't think he'll hurt us. Tom Sawyer pranks at worst. Not unless you tried to stop him from going where he wants to. I'll think he'll be back soon. Even back to this place. You can talk with him then about the nation's defense. He's not going to wreck anything -- don't worry. At least you can be confident he won't go over to the other side." Stapleton allowed a little sarcasm to show. "His fine religious and patriotic upbringing -- or should I say conditioning -- has made sure of that." The professor left the doctor and returned to his teaching machine, which was crated and ready for the move back to the university. He was smiling and chuckling -- for fear of crying. L ike the yellow eye of a Cyclops, the sun blinked overhead and Robert continued walking peacefully along the path. "I am the Son and I have the power to help people. There are and all of them have hurts in the Son, with power. I have the power of good and I discovered who the ghost-voice is." And you discovered who you really are, Son. We know now who the ghost-voice is and who I am. "I am moving and I am not going to stop moving until I can this earth can hear my three voices." Our three voices. Every birth helps to define the shape of things to come! negative, Qyi Nine-eightfive." Jfaa # extruded the quarter-inch pseudopod of Admonition along the frozen ground. "Why,"it is quite impossible. How could there be life there? How could it survive?" Qyi # drew himself from his flat Security to an Indignant six inches. "They may have evolved differently. They could be a different life form altogether." In the posture of Amused Tolerance: "How many life forms can there be? It has been proven sufficiently that our present form and mass are the optimum in adaptibility and convenience as well as efficiency. We can alter IF our shape at will, adapting to all conditions." "This is very true." "Even in this best of all possible forms," Jfaa # hurried on as he noticed Oyi # taking on the crenelations of the Adversary form, "how could we expect to live under the conditions of Thwth? The sky burns daily and twice as long. Being so close to the Primary, there are sharp differences from the light to full shadow. The constant change from true brightness to the dark contrast would be dizzying. And, affirmative, maddening. And, as if the heat of the day were not enough, if some poor life form got caught in the shadow -- which is twice as long as ours -- the drop of temperature would probably kill him on the spot." "Perhaps they migrate to keep in the light. After all, the planet is smaller than Xhamllitt." "That does not signify. The mass is different." "All right. But certainly they have evolved in another form." "Oyi Nine-eight-five, please negate that posture of Challenge. What other form could possibly survive? They would have to be formless such as we. They would require three sexes. And we have the advantage of a planet that revolves at a civilized pace so that we are never long without light. And we are at a respectable distance from the Primary." "In our studies there has been some debate about bodies with ome type of framework." "Framework?" Incredulity. "Tpri Seven-seven-one has suggested the possibility." "Ah." A twist of Recognition. "Tpri Seven-seven-one is the only Colleague who is doing creative and important thinking today. All the others are lost in a tangle of academics." At this, Jfaa # extruded a second pseudopod and pulled himself to the full extent of Righteous Indignation. "And how could such a -- a monster move? How would he keep his body from being crushed? Negative. That is the most ridiculous part of this life-onThwth nonsense." "Then how do you explain the signals that have been picked up here?" "There must be many strange effects from radiation so close to the Primary. I think we can safely dismiss those as random atmospheric conditions." "But there was pattern and repetition to them." "There is pattern in your mass fluctuation. There is repetition in the paths of our moons. There is regularity in our orbit." "It's just that -- " Oyi # began to slide into Confusion. "It sounded so reasonable the way Tpri Seven-seven-one explained it." "Naturally," Jfaa # went on, gathering himself into Maximum Paternal. "Tpri Seven-seven-one is a genius. But even genius can err. I commend his gift. I applaud his creative thinking. However, I leave it to those of us who have been instructed in the ways of logic to evaluate the worth of his work." "How?" Jfaa # assumed a pose of Confidence. "We are better prepared. Ours is not the privilege of genius but the responsibility of knowledge." "And you are convinced it is not possible?" "How can it be? Let us assume the pragmatic approach. The planet Thwth is only three from the Primary -- far too close for survival. The atmosphere is a poisonous mass of nitrogen and oxygen with several other trace gases. It has vast seas of liquid ice formed of an oxygen-hydrogen compound and ambient vapors of this are always evident. Any natives would either boil or drown." Oyi # was reluctant to concede the point. "Must they?" "Then consider the satellite. They've just the one -- and that is so large that it must pull the seas around so violently that there are daily floods everywhere." Oyi # Acquiesced. "Or take the radiation. I shudder at the amount any poor inhabitant of Thwth would have to contend with. Why, under such bombardment there might be a dozen different species on the planet, assuming for the moment that life could exist at all. Think of the confusion that would cause. Imagine the problems in ecology. If you find just one other life form difficult to postulate -- then what do you propose for the variety that would necessarily be part of that postulate?" "Til admit I hadn't considered that." "There could be as many as twenty sub-species. Nature is an orderly process as is demonstrated time and time again. There is a reason for all things. How could you find reason in the chaos that twenty different -- different, Oyi Nine-eight-five -- species would cause?" Jfaa # propelled himself forward in Emphasis. "Negative reaction. I am without defense." And Oyi # flowed into Defeat. "There, there. You have been given the chance to understand and have done beautifully. But such an idea, when you look at it in the cool light of reason, defies that reason. It is disciplined minds, such as mine and yours, that will turn genius such as Tpri Seven-seven-one's into the solid fact our science demands." IF "Should T denounce him, do you think?" "Negative. Of course not. Why, if it weren't for him you would never have given a moment's thought to the possibility of extraXhamllitt life." "True enough," said Oyi #, looking a trifle Recovered. "You see, you have learned from this experience. There's no point in behaving like Pgfd Threetwenty and his lot. They have been insisting that Tpri Sevenseven-one be banned from teaching because he has caused so much upset among the young." "Well," Oyi # allowed, "there has been a little trouble." "But that unrest has turned many of you to deeper study than my generation has ever attempted." In the posture of Embarrassed Acceptance of Praise, Oyi # asked cautiously, "Do you think Pgfd Three-twenty will succeed?" "I doubt it." Jfaa # assumed Contemplation and Wisdom. "As long as T am in charge of teaching the young on this planet nothing can go wrong." Oyi # adjusted his ocular stalks and gazed rapturously at the horizon. "Even from an esthetic point of view, how could they live without the beauty of our rings? Think how dull their sky must be with just the one moon. Even if anything could live there, it would have to be a dull, soulless thing. Obviously nothing there could have intelligence. Or art." "Now you're thinking. You are intelligently considering things that Tpri Seven-seven-one has overlooked in his enthusiasm." "Yet you must admit that his speculations are interesting." Jfaa # jerked happily into Indulgent Humor, continuing, "They're absolutely fascinating. But such ideas belong to that cult of interplanetary travel." "I confess," Oyi # admitted cautiously, "that I have read some of their scrivings. Not recently," he amended hastily. "Ah, well, we all did in our youth, I suppose. Even I did. The scrivings were not nearly so sophisticated then but, still and all, delightful entertainment for the immature mind." Jfaa # adjusted his body to allow the forming of a small Dent of Nostalgia. Oyi # adjusted himself to Acknowledgment. "They probably prompted me to consider a scientific career. They certainly increased my curiosity." "Uhm?" the older Jfaa # rumbled. "For that matter, those foolish scrivings got me started." "But I'm beginning to realize how impossible it all is." "That, my dear Qyi Nine-eightfive, is the trouble with growing up." They rubbed Nostalgia Dents and hummed in the Companionship that a commonly misspent youth imparts. I T IS perhaps unfortunate that, just at the time of Jfaa #'s logical triumph, Earth launched its first manned Saturn probe which would make Jfaa # eat his words -- even if he had to form teeth to do it. The day was a glorious one for Earth. The thirty-month probe was the first joint United StatesSoviet Union project. The ship was crewed by one person from each of the two participating countries. As they passed beyond Mars, the captain, a thirty-three-year-old Marine test pilot from Boulder, Colorado, turned to his navigatorcrew, a stunning brunette from Kazan with a command of English only slightly less dazzling than her smile. "You're what?" he asked. "I'm pregnant." "Are you sure?" She nodded triumphantly. "So much for those fusty old men back on Earth who said it couldn't be done. We've been in space for three months and I'm going to have a baby." Quite a bit later, extracting themselves from a complicated free-fall embrace, he asked her what -- according to her feminine intuition -- she thought the baby was going to be. "Oh, I don't care," she said, turning lazily in his arms, "so long as it's healthy." As far as it went she was to get her wish. But it was perhaps an unluckily accurate word. Just two months out from Earth when it was little , more than a few dividing cells, a random submicroscopic particle that was blundering through the mother's body had subtly altered the order of its incipient skeletal structure. Fortunately the radiation bombarding the ship's fragile hull had played havoc with her blood or she would never have been able to nurse it. Even Oyi # would have been Outraged yith the proud father's comment a few months later as he admired his wife's swollen abdomen. "There's no life on Saturn now but we're sure as hell gonna start some." His tone would have been considerably more apprehensive if he could have foreseen the quasitentacled, twenty-pound mass of amorphous flesh he was to cut from her dying body as they crossed Jupiter's orbit. For Jfaa # was correct about Thwthian life in one particular. Unprotected from radiation by Earth's atmosphere, unhampered by gravity, the child -- or whatever it was in her womb -- lived. And grew.  IF itomri' Both the man and the robot were old -- and getting hard to take! R obot # had become a bit creaky about the joints during his long service with old Moondust Curtis. You could hear Six-seven-eight when he started from the kitchen. You could tell when he crossed the patio and detoured by the swimming pool. You knew exactly when he stepped on the carpeting of the hall. No matter where you stood in the Big House you could follow his progress. The right knee joint emitted a distinctive creak. The left knee joint countered with a nerve-scraping screech pitched at about twelve thousand cycles. The elbow joints made a two-tone harmony as they swung, the left a diminished third based upon a slightly off-tune middle C, the right an augmented third based upon A-flat below middle C. Syllabicated, they produced a sort of rhythmic hoowah-hoowoh, hoowali-lioowoli in the tempo of human arms swinging back and forth in contra-motion to the walking feet. As he approached, you also became aware of a constant low-key whirr of machinery deep within his chest -- an uneven pulsating drone containing two alternating notes sounding like hrewer-ntniph, htewer-rumph. Old Man Curtis called him Cappy. In a dog-eared, Martianhuniming-fly-bcspecklcd, real Venusian-drcamer-juice-stained Catalogue, one that Moondust kept around somewhere in the Big House, Cappy was listed as R (for robot) #. Included in the programming of his memory circuits was the manufacturer's own sneaky little scheme. If, by some chance, you asked Cappy what you should call him, Cappy was triggered to answer, "I am Robot General Utility Servant, model R-SixSeven-Eight. A duplicate of me may be purchased from any agency of Happy Home Helpers, Incorporated, a licensed aitch-aitchaitch representative on every inhabited world -- or contact by space beam, code: Happy, Earthside twcnty-dash-bce-tvvosix-dash-ten-four." Robot # could not slate that this commercial was no longer valid. Happy Home Helpers, Inc., had allowed itself to stagnate during the forty years of his existence and had finally succumbed to younger and more competitive producers of servants whose soft, cosmetically perfect skin glowed with the pink of health and with a warm mockery of human life -- and whose voices were capable of quarter-tone modulations in a range of three octaves. That information, obviously, was not in his circuits. So do men and machines lose touch with accelerating streams of evolution after they are tossed willy-nilly into its eddies. The catalogue had smelled of fresh printer's ink when Robot # came to live with Moondust. From its pages, gleaming with virginal purity, not yet stained by Venusian dreamer juice nor speckled with excreta of the Martian humming fly, Moondust and his young Earthside 'bride had chosen R# during the first year of their marriage, in the first month after Moon's promotion to Assistant Administrator of Luna and after becoming certain that she would present her husband with an heir. An optimistic joy surroupded R# until a husky son was born -- who, in his journey from womb to world, killed his mother, thereby severing the zest for living from his father. IF The baby was then shipped Earthside to the care of an aunt. Young Curtis stepped out of his promising career to wall off grief in a forty-year search for that fabled end of the rainbow, with R# faithfully clumping along. Moondust prowled the interlands of Luna like any of the swarm of other dust rats, hunting for the big strike each of them hoped to find. But unlike most of the moondusters, perhaps because he did not care. Moon found his Eldorado -- several of them -- first on Luna and then, as those planets opened up, on Mars and Venus. And finally in a deposit of strangely glowing jewels out in the asteroid belt -- which made his fortune one of the fabulous treasure accumulations of all time. For forty years R# prowled the silences at the expanding edges of man's domain in space, faithfully following his master. There were interludes during which Moondust would walk into some frontier saloon and sit morosely at a table with bottle and glass. Labels on the bottles changed through decades but their contents produced similar results. Robot # stood unmoving behind Moon's chair. When the final glass tipped and spilled under fumbling fingers he picked up his comatose master and carried him to whatever lodgings had been engaged. There he stood quietly at Moondust's bedside through the remainder of the night. And when the alcoholic sleep broke, he massaged his man and injected him with restoratives. Then inevitably Moondust would say, "Cappy, I'm getting mighty restless again. Let's you and me take out." The whirr within Cappy's breast would become more pronounced as the proper response was searched from his memory banks. A couple of seconds later Cappy would answer, "As you wish, sir." And within hours they would be off into space, following the beckon'mg phantoms of a galaxy's buried treasure. Some time in their forty-first year, Moondust was out on a large asteroid, setting a small fission device to blast his way into some rock that looked promising. There was a premature explosion. It blew him clear but both his legs were mangled. Cappy applied bandages from remembered instructions stored during similar but less critical accidents. He then picked up his master in metalloy arms and strode off over the restricted horizon to their ship. By a miracle they made it through the vast darknesses between the stars to Marsport, where the major space hospital was located. But both of Moon's legs had to come off. That was when grafting of limbs was still a rather uncertain surgical problem and the doctors considered Curtis too old to take the risk. Of course there would be a set of clever artificial legs for him but Moondust saw the face of the coin chance had tossed -- no more long lonely jaunts to the outer reaches, no more adventure-filled hours to keep a lid over grieving memories of his sweet young bride, memories as pain-filled as that hour when the birth cry of an arriving heir and the death cry of his mother had stirred the sterile hospital air simultaneously. When news of his double amputation was chunked at him Moondust -- still drunk from anesthetic -- mumbled, "Hear that, Cappy? I'm going to be a dadblasted split-Venusian shummoxshucking invalid. You're fixing to have to tote me around like a baby. Can those old scrap metal bones of yours take it? Or do I have you carted to the dump and buy some beautied-up imitation of a busty blonde amazon to do the job?" Speaking above the rising volume of noises in Cappy's chest, the surgeon said heartily, "It is not as bad as that, Mr. Curtis. Prosthetics are almost as flexible as their human counterparts nowadays. You'll walk with hardly a limp." "Peglegs," snorted Moondust. By this time R# had found what seemed an appropriate answer to Moon's question. His speaker sizzled and his reply came in the statement form of the two inflections which had been built into his vocal mechanism. "I shall require more data to understand imitation of a busty blonde amazon, sir, before I can reach a conclusive answer." Moon snapped, "Oh, go lay an egg, you pile of junk tin." Cappy answered, "I have not been programmed for that particular operation." Moon shouted, "Don't you answer me back, you iron-headed goony bird!" And the doctor said, "Pshaw now, Mister Curtis, don't let a little thing like those legs upset you. You'll hardly feel them." "You bet your life I won't," Moon snorted. "There won't be any nerves or flesh or blood in the damned things." However, Moondust wobbled out of the hospital after a convalescence remarkably short, his mind in the dark blue area of the soul's spectrum. He moaned peevishly, "I can't get the hang of these crazy metalloy legs, Cappy. They aren't going to carry me over anything rougher than a plasticon walkway. I'm nothing but a half-man now." The nearest appropriate answer Cappy could find in his memory systems was, "That is undoubtedly true, sir." And Moondust squalled, "You don't have to rub it in, you peaIF brained assembly-line welded conglomeration -- " Moon tacked to port and headed for the joy district, grimly determined to drown himself in Venusian dreamer juice. R# clumped along beside him, making the evening air melodious with his eek-hoowah-hoowoli brewerrumph, yiku hoowah-hoowoh brewer-rumph -- sweet harmonies of his joints and his continuing life processes. But Moondust discovered that dreamer juice would neither kill him nor hold back memory demons, no matter how protracted the binge. He came to that point where he could not think of the stuff without gagging. Then, after he had spent an hour staring through liquor-fuzzed eyes at a full glass, trying to coax inner reflexes out of their determination to eject the bubbling blood-colored liquid the moment it reached them, he growled, "Blast your dod-rotted selenium soul, Cappy. Why don't you stop me from making an ass of myself?" Through the familiar prelude of all the whirring brewer-rumph and crackling speaker Cappy quickly answered, "You have set a problem which is impossible for me to solve, sir." He picked up the wilting Moondust and walked out of the joy joint. ner and friend, Jim Stanton -- now a government commissioner of something or other in the Department of Planetary Expansion -- who had a remedy. The visiphone in Moondust's lodgings chimed and Jim's homely face came up on the screen. "I've been off planet and only just now heard about the accident. How's the ipvalid?" "Sick," Moondust moaned. "There's no prospecting left for me. I'm just a piece of a man, a planet-bound jail bird. I'm headed for the crazy house." "Want a job to keep your mind off your troubles?" Jim asked. Moon shouted, "I couldn't stomach being a fancy-pants diddling around an office." "Well, let me think about it anyway, you old dust rat," Stanton shot back at him. "And in the meantime be careful not to bite yourself and die of hydrophobia." And before Saturday noon (Earthside Greenwich), Commissioner Jim Stanton had his old friend and the faithful # on a government star cruiser, headed out of the solar system. Moon had been invested with the title of Administrator, member of the sparse band of governors of Earth's expanded frontiers. The planet entrusted to Moondust was almost literally at the end of time -- a humid world, fresh from an era when the shallow seas completely covering its surface had once been shoved cataclysmically into more confined beds by new mountain ranges and young continents. The cruiser plunked Administrator Curtis and R# down on the only explored area. It was a triangular patch of fifty thousand or so square miles, fenced on its north by a two-hundred-mile lava dike which still steamed, and on each side by two huge rivers that rolled along, mightier than Earth's Mississippi, toward a restless plankton-cluttered ocean. It was a beautiful spot if you liked the swamps and bayous of Louisiana, the moss-covered oaks of Mississippi and East Texas and the chiggers and moccasins and alligators of the whole Deep South, Earthside. Newly appointed Administrator Curtis looked at the land he would govern, sucked in heavy pollenscented air, and crooned to his faithful servant, "Cappy, we're home. I could just shut my eyes and imagine I was a little shaver waiting for my papy and mammy to come back from New Orleans, driving their spanking pair of matched blacks proud and happy and Old Uncle Tom setting in the back of the surrey, grinning like a slice of brown watermelon with white seeds. Cappy, just smell this air. I'm almost expecting to hear a steamboat whistling around the river bend any minute. And listen to all the little bugs scritching in the woods." R# whirred a moment, then answered, "The olfactory impressions cannot be recorded. I shall keep a sensor trained upon the river bend. I am attempting to classify and record all vibration patterns of the scritching bugs, sir." Administrator Curtis tore into his new job with all the excitement of a kid with a handful of lightning bugs. The work was not monumnetal in its demands. Planet Sol Type Series XX-#, Sector #, was in a sense being kept on ice against the time when the fecundity of man should require its broad living room. Exploration and development of its unknown lands could proceed at a leisurely pace, in fact was not proceeding at all during the present decade, and Moondust there had no E. and D. men around underfoot to bother him. It was a toss-up whether the native inhabitants of the explored area should be classified as prestone age or post-ape age. They had to be handled like a band of educated chimps in a space lab. They possessed a language which seemed as substantial as' swamp shine, consisting of clicks, grunts, growls and gurgles, accompanied by elaborate charades and posturings and an everpresent grin. The key to their communication IF had not yet been deciphered but there was a faded female with thick glasses and a Bryn Mawr air who spent her days among them with recorders and psychological gadgets, trying to break the code. Moondust found that she was quartered in Administration House, as was the balance of his staff, which consisted of a nervous, allergyafflicted clerk of male persuasion and a Venusian cook who was neither, or both or either, whichever way you looked at the problem and whatever phase of the life cycle was uppermost. These formed the total non-native population of XX-#. Patchy surveys had shown the huge unexplored areas of XX-#I to contain another type of primitive dweller, designated by some E. and D. man on the discovery crew as a Noddy. Nothing was known about the race, except that its members seemed to be able to change their shapes -- revised thus from conclusions of the first contacts which had noted a dozen different species. The Noddies smelled like skunk cabbages after a rain. This facility for changing shape was discovered by the only investigator in E. and D. to return alive from its second expedition across the big rivers. Later, other vaguely noted characteristics, not too clearly substantiated, filtered into the lore surrounding this seldom-seen unique species. Members evidently mated as some Earth animals did. As her labor time approached, the female ate her mate. Each female ran to the hilltops at rutting season and howled until a band of males answered. The strongest and fastest got her. On moonlit nfghts, inhabitants of the explored triangle could hear packs of young studs in screaming pursuit of females in heat. And when the chase circled to the river bank, a more grisly sound sometimes lifted above the banshee howls -- the slurp of tribal jaws signifying that one of the pursuers had injured himself and was being devoured by his comrades. The species was listed as dangerous. Fortunately, for some reason as yet undiscovered. Noddies could not seem to cross water, a trait which probably saved the little settlement between XX-#rs big rivers, for no means had yet been found to kill them. The one surviving E. and D. member of that second expedition had written in his notes that both laser and explosive projectiles just passed through a Noddy -- any portion of its body that was struck simply dissolved around the penetrating force and flowed with the balance of the creature's bulk into some new form. His was the only authentic account. No one else who might have gotten close enough to a Noddy to testify to this report had ever returned from across the river. The tame natives in Moondust's little triangular province, two small tribes, performed as laborers for the settlement, mechanically and zestfully, like trained dogs in a circus. You blew a horn at sunrise and they sprinted from their grass and mud huts and raced for the corkroll fields. There they followed the same pattern day after day, tirelessly, with all the verve of a blind mule plodding a circle around a sugar cane grinder back in the Old South, Earthside, circa eighteen hundred something -- cultivating corkroll, Which actually rather resembled Earthside cane, except that its sap was dried and powdered and shipped to Earth pharmaceutical companies to form the basic ingredient of a miracle drug which had added almost a hundred years to man's life. And the natives' quick fingers and steadily chomping jaws were much more effective than any insecticide that could be devised for the tender corkroll plants. At sundown you blew the horn once more and they scattered, like chickens running from a hawk, into the woods to hunt swamp fleas and crack them to suck out their juices, or to paddle down under the black bayou waters, scrounging for frogs and snails and snakes to pop into their mouths. Nobody from Cultural Affairs Department, Earthside, had yet been able to interest them in setting a formal table. These far from arduous duties thus left Administrator Curtis with plenty of time to stroll out to the hickory grove that shaded the hog hollow -- except that the hickories were scaly-barked Bronta trees bearing iron-hard seeds in a chestnut type burr which at ripening time squirted them out with the range and velocity of shotgun pellets. And the hogs were nonexistent -- the place merely bore a resemblance to the old home hollow. Moondust strolled there or sat upon the dewy grass in perpetual June-time weather and floated back on memory's drift. R# stood patiently behind Moondust, recording in his memory circuits every word the old man spoke and every sniff he took of the balmy air, offering a shoulder to support him when moist midday heat drove him indoors. Cappy fanned him through the steaming afternoon, woke him from his nap when the hour came to blow the horn and send native plantation hands scampering off on their frenetic food hunt. It was like putting raw whiskey away in charred oak barrels. Moondust mellowed. T he mellowing first assumed the form of an attempt to duplicate his by now exaggerated memories of the old plantation. IF He took # out where a long grassy slope tilted toward the river and said, "Cappy, pry into this blasted thick skull of mine and get a clear picture of just what Tve been dreaming about. Then design me a real honest-togoodness Louisiana plantation house that'll fit right on top of that knob." The robot replied, "As you wish, sir." It adjusted sensors to make contact with the master's head. Moondust said, "Now I'll just sit down right here and fix my eyeballs on the river and I'll say to myself 'Good old Mississippi.' I'll start thinking about that house so hard you won't have any trouble catching just what I want. And mind you, Cappy, don't make one little smidgin of that house any different from the way I'm seeing it in my mind or I'll build a bonfire and melt you down to a cinder. I want me a real old mansion." "As you wish, sir," answered #. And silence settled while Moondust concentrated and Cappy recorded brain waves -- silence except for the brewer-rumph in Cappy's ehest and the chittering tion of a Screaming Slug Eater and the moaning of several macaw-like flying things, the sizzling of swamp worms, plash of river and whisper of breezes. Construction presented no problem. Moon's limitless fortune brought space freighter, contractors, architects and an army of robot artisans to XX-#. The problems arose from a temperamental melee which blew up between the highly paid architects and Administrator Curtis over his insistence that #'s plans be executed down to their last detail, exactly as drawn. Violent tantrums got the architects nowhere, nor did derision. There was no way for them to ease their ulcers by walking off the job. When you're stuck on a distant planet, you're stuck. So a rambunctious compromise resulted after #, on command, had brought them all tenderly, two at a time, one under each arm, and set them gently in a row of chairs facing Moon. So the mansion took form. It had the wide wind-swept porches and tall white columns, the gracious entrance hall and sweeping staircase of ante-bellum plantation showplaces. But sentimental remembrances of one's childhood are apt to become confused with more recent impressions over a half-century span. Beyond the great stairway came Moorish arches, Byzantine incrustations, Japanese prayer lanterns, Chinese pagoda, Spanish patio, moon-base dome and a Hollywood swimming pool, all tied together. Then the space freighter lifted, taking with it the artisans and architects, leaving behind to keep Administrator Curtis company only the female Bryn Mawr type, the male allergic clerk and the uncommitted Venusian cook. The next phase of mellowing in the charred wood of the barrel settled upon Moondust. He rubbed his hands together, snapped his fingers and said, "By Gadfry, Cappy, weTe alone again." R#'s circuits buzzed a bit. He eventually replied, "The definition of alone must be altered, sir, or some other descriptive symbol used." "Now just you don't bother your tin head about that, Cappy. What I'm after is for you to tote me a rocking chair out on this veranda and fetch me a big tall cold julep." R#'s speaker rumbled, "As you wish, sir." And he went Eek hoowahhoowoh brewer-rumph, yiku hoowah-hoowoh brewer-rumpli to the kitchen. Administrator Curtis found that only a smidgin of imagination was required to transport him back to the old home place to rock on a shady porch of the Big House, with scented breezes stirring stray locks of white hair and a julep ever waiting at his elbow. Although the imitation skin of # was not black, its texture and hue of weathered chamois did fit the picture to some degree. And the robot could mix a julep worthy of its prototypes, with ingredients much more exotic than its ancestors, including a sprig of plueil, which was not only more tangy than mint but left one in a heavenly state of euphoria. The cicadas and lightning bugs were missing and the coughing snort of XX-#'s swamp lizards bore no real resemblance to that full-throated roar of the good old green bullfrog giants of Mississippi's river bottoms. And no haunting harmonies drifted from cabins of the field hands. But heavy flower-scented air drifted thickly after sundown and one could dream quite effectively with eyes closed, so that the thick, threefoot fronds of Bronta trees did not destroy images of oaks and magnolias hanging over oleanders and calycanthus -- that is, unless a flock of rock chickens happened to be foraging in the area. Their nasty chuckles and cat-calls, as well as a certain post-digestive habit, could destroy any reverie. Then Moondust went through another mellowing stage. One twilight redolently damp with dew upon the meadow and a scent of mud grass heavier than a dowager's cosmetics and the rock chicken flocks far enough away so that their lewd noises could be ignored. Old Man Curtis suddenly said, "Cappy, I've got a son somewhere in this far-flung IF gaggle of stars and I bet he's feeling plumb low because his pappy never did right by him. We're just fixing to find that little boy and make up to him for racing around this here galaxy petting up our own sorry feelings and letting him get spoiled by some female relation. Go get me Henry Riitenhauser." R# eekyikued over to Administration House to fetch the allergic clerk. So Henry, under instructions, poured a bucketful of Moondust's wealth into the pockets of a detective agency. The dicks were efficient. They found the son's grave, the son's widow and his twins, a boy and a girl. "That's no more than I deserve for negleeting the poor boy," Moon moaned to the clerk. And to the robot he said, "If you ever get any kids, Cappy, don't you be a dod-swizzled fool like me and let them get away from you." Through a slightly uneven brewer-rumph Cappy stated, "The R Six-seven-eight model was not designed with the ability to reproduce, sir."  "Don't tell me things I already know, you dag-nabbed rusty junk pile," growled his master, "I was talking to myself. Reckon the best way to make it up to my poor dead boy is to bring his pretty young widow and his two babies here to live with me." He turned to the clerk. "Henry, you get busy on that little old thing." Jt would have done no good to remind Moondust then that inexorable time had probably helped the young widow to skate toward forty and that the twins must be babies of at least nine summers. In his mellow role of plantation colonel, with a rosy filter censoring any rays that might have played white light over his imaginative excursions, Moon was destined to wait and receive such news with shock when a starship's shuttle dropped the little family off on XX-#. The widow turned out to be a pale-eyed blonde instead of Moondust's romanticized picture of a small dark-haired beauty scarcely out of her teens, whose brown eyes glowed with warm sentiment -- his own portrait unconsciously influenced by agemisted memories of the only other woman in his life. But Moon could adjust. The widow's sharpnosed appearance he could blame on no one but her ancestors. Marking her with the name Tcena was the fault of her parents. Moon had too little experience with civilized ways to determine whether Tecna's silvered yellow hair was the product of genes or industrial chemistry. But the children had the look of his dead son, even though they were older than he pictured. They sidled toward him, responding to nudging from Tcena. The girl curtsied; the boy offered his hand. And both said politely, "How do you do, Grandfather?" And their mother followed them and touched her lips briefly to Moon's wrinkled cheek. Then they all looked at each other until Moon gestured toward the landscape and said, "Well, how do you like it?" Teena stared at the terrain. "There isn't much here, is there? ' And the children asked, "Where's the city?" Moondust explained that this was an undeveloped planet but very comfortable and full of great promise for the future. Teena assured him that she didn't mind, that she and the children were deeply indebted to Grandfather. "We'll miss the stimulation and conveniences of city life but pleasure costs too much for a widow with only a few credits in the bank. I wouldn't care for myself but I want good things for the children. We can't thank you enough for asking us to come live with you." The twins' butterfly minds had darted to things more interesting than politenesses. Jill tugged hard at her grandfather and pointed to #. Bill cried, "That's a funny robot -- " Jill asked, "Does it belong to you?" "Why doesn't its face look like a face?' Bill finished. That's Cappy,' Curtis told them and put a hand on the robot's metal shoulder. "These are Billy and Jill, Cappy. And Teena, I want you and Cappy to be acquainted. He'll take real good care of you all. Cappy and T have been friends for years." The twins went into a fit of giggles at the rising hrewer-rumph. as # spoke in his statement inflection, "I have been instructed to serve Billy and Jill and Madam faithfully." Teena said, "It's certainly an old relic. I suppose on worlds like this you can't find anything better." Billy added, "Back on Earth robots look like people." Jill giggled. "And they don't talk funny." A rousing welcome banquet awaited the new family of Administrator Curtis. No shining carriages discharged southern belles and courtly gentlemen at the portico but the company did its best to make up this lack by animation. Henry Rutenhauser was there, well shaven, with allergy under temporary control and two new jokes picked off the space waves. The Bryn Mawr type lent dignity with discourses upon the aspirated whisde and nosedamped hoot of the natives. Officers of a freighter, down for their midseason consignments of powdered corkroll, were glad of an opportunity for dining on unconcentrated food. IF All stuffed themselves with beaten biscuits from real Earthside wheat flour and the Venusian cook had whomped up a reasonable facsimile of southern fried chicken from a scaly flying creature called by the natives a swsss, accompanied by patting of midriffs and flapping of arms. Crystals impregnated with ancient Stephen Foster melodies disgorged home-sick sweetness through the stereo horns and # eek-yi kneel through butler routines acceptably.  II T he trouble between the twin's mother and # barely waited twenty-four hours later before erupting. Curtis heard Teena shrieking in the Spanish patio. He clumped back there as fast as his prosthetics would carry him and found his robot backing toward the Hollywood pool while the blonde daughter-in-law threw chair cushions and julep glasses and end tables at the metal man. "Get away from me, you thing! You nightmare! I can't stand that squeaking of yours. Get out!" Henry Rutenhauser held her hand, trying to comfort Teena. He led her to a lounge, crooning, "There now. Don't. let it upset you. I can't understand why the Administrator keeps a nightmare like that but some men get a little batty with age, you know?" Moondust whispered, "Cappy, you'd better go on out front." And to the clerk he said with exaggerated mildness, "Henry, I'm not batty enough to forget there's an office full of manifests to work up so that freighter can lift off on time. Maybe you'd better go," Henry went -- fast. Moon limped to his daughterin-law and sat beside her. "You don't need to be so upset with Cappy. Just tell him what you want and he'll do it." She dabbed her eyes. "He's like a scarecrow. He grates on my nerves. When I try to take a nap that thing's squeaks wake me up. Tm a sensitive person. I can't stand shrill noises." "You just keep remembering Cappy has a heart of gold," Moon said. "That blank face makes me ill," Teena said. "You'll get used to him," Moon said firmly. Teena waited, "With all your money -- I can't understand why you don't junk the monster and buy some of the new miracle robots." "Why, I couldn't do that. Cappy's like a big brother to me. Why, Td die before I did anything to hurt Cappy's feelings. You wouldn't want me to put Cappy out of his own house, would you?" Teena ran out sniffling. Only a week after this Moondust found Teena in his special rocking chair on the north veranda. Slie gave her pouting smile and started to rise, sighing martyrishly.  Moon protested: "Now don't you get up."  He eased himself down on the porch and leaned against a pillar to enjoy harp sounds a breeze played in Bronta fronds, the bubbling, whistling, far-off chit-chat of natives in the corkroll fields and the calls of fauna in the swamp lands as they gaily gobbled each other for lunch. I Moondust waved a languid paw and yawned. "Listen to all those little things. Makes the air downright peaceable." i The forced smile again touched Teena, with a pucker to her underlip that Curtis decided must have made her look sort of cute in the first bloom of girlhood. And thafs when my son courted her... I He could imagine how his boy might have found her intriguing and blamed himself anew for not sticking by his boy to educate him about women. But Tecna's voice was fretful. "It's lonely here. We had lots of people around us all the time back on Earth to keep life exciting. And visiscreens to pass the time. Even if we were so poor we didn't know where the next meal was coming from." (A "You're hankering to go back there?" "Oh, no. Til endure any kind of hardship to make life easy for my children." She stopped rocking and puckered her lip again. "Maybe if we had some servants that looked like real people and talked like them I wouldn't be so lonesome." "Oh, we don't need extra help. Missy," the old man answered amiably. "Cappy can take care of all of us." He watched clouds cover his daughter-in-law's face and twist her mouth and shook his head sadly. "I'm sorry you've taken out a hate on Cappy. I want the mother of my boy's children to be happy." "Then get servants that look like people and talk like people." "That kind are a mighty far piece from this planet and we won't be having another ship touch down until Spring." "Henry says there are some down in the warehouse." "You been talking to my clerk about this?" She pouted. "Henry's very understanding. But he has his work and he can't be around all the time to talk to." Moon muttered, "He'd better not." "Henry says there's a whole retinue of house servants in their original boxes stored there. All we have to do is activate them. He says they are the latest models. IF You can't tell them from real people, even when you touch them." Moon sighed. "Well, Missy, I reckon it would be more peaceful for us all to give in to you. Til just mosey down and set Henry to breaking those boxes open this afternoon." "And then we could get rid of that horrible-looking old robot that follows you around." "Get rid of Gappy? No, ma'am. Gappy's my friend. Gappy's saved my life more times than you have fingers and toes." She started to sniffle. "I won't endure it. He scares me. I can't eat for watching him." Moon shook his head sadly. "Fm sorry, Missy. I couldn't look Cappy in the eye if I was thinking of doing him in. He's got a right to live, same as you and I." "But he's just a robot. He's not a person." Moon said positively, "No, ma'am." "That imitation skin is full of moth-eaten patches. It disgusts me. "Then you'll just have to look somewhere else." Teena had sense enough to recognize the determination in Moondust's voice. She took her pouting elsewhere and hunted up Henry Rutenhauser for consolation. Put Eve into an Eden and she does not need an apple or a serpent. A squeaky robot and an allergic clerk will do. Together, Teena and Henry planned a strategic campaign. After the new servants had been on the job a few days, Teena began hinting, finally asking Moon outright, "Don't you just love the way our new servants keep the house?" And Henry added casually at other times, "Good thing we had a retinue of robot house servants in stock, sir. They're remarkably efficient. It's a joy to watch them work." And Teena, as if in afterthought: "They're so efficient that they leave absolutely nothing for that mouldy old robot to do. And they talk like real people." "That's right nice," Moon told her the first few times. "Cappy don't mind letting your pretty dolls do the housekeeping. Cappy deseiAes to take life easy. He's got old and creaky like he is by keeping me out of trouble, and any man that's done his duty in this galaxy ought to have a long easy-going old age. You keep your dolls out of Cappy's way and off my veranda so I won't have to listen to their jabbering and they can work all they want to." Then Eve chose her Adam. Moondust heard it from the children first. "We're going to have a new father," Jill burbled. Teena admitted that she and Henry had decided upon marriage. Old Moondust complained to # at the edge of the corkroU fields where he felt safe from inquisitive ears. "Cappy, I just can't make out what she sees in that nose-blowing diddler after being married to my son. Can you? But I also can't figure out what kind of a prize my boy thought she was." From the midst of the brewerrumph exertion # replied, "More data required before an answer to your question can be formulated." "I didn't ask any questions, you blasted chatterbox. I just remarked to myself that if your squeaking sends her into a tizzy, then IF Ill I don't see how Henry's eternal sniffing wouldn't give her a conniption fit." "Squeaks and sniffs are not synonymous," Cappy answered. Moondust behaved like the indulgent, plueil-mellowed southern colonel he had built in imagination. He gave the bride away and stirred up the gayest wedding supper that could be arranged with one guest, Bryn Mawr type. The marriage was performed via the space beam by the Space Academy chaplain far off on Mars, and the groom movechihto Teena's quarters in the Big House. And Henry began to expand, gradually changing his manner of addressing Administrator Curtis, abandoning the subservient "sir" for a patronizing "grandfather." Moon enlightened him quickly on that point. "I am not your grandpappy and I never hope to be. Let's straighten out our little old relationship in a big hurry, Henry." The clerk said, with a lift of an eyebrow, "Happy to oblige you. I assumed that using 'grandfather' would make things less confusing for the children. I had forgotten that you might be a little bit sensitive about your age." "It's not the age, Henry Rutenhauser. It's your claiming to be related in a way you just don't have any dag-swizzled right to be." tude of the parents, # was no anathema to the children. They were constantly with the robot, each holding tightly to a metalloy hand from which the imitation skin was shredding. Under Cappy's guidance they explored the plantation, chattering like Martian Jabber Birds. Out in the corkroll fields they giggled at the monkeylike movements of natives and Jill hid her face against the robot's hard side each time she saw workers snatch wriggling, many-legged black things from the plants and pop them into their mouths. Where the last grassy slope slid toward the swamp the children tugged hard, trying to coax the stubborn metal man farther into black tunnels of fernlike thickets where vines writhed when touched and made soft plopping noises. "I want to find out what's doing that zing sound," Billy urged. "It is forbidden to take you into the swamp," Cappy's statement inflection rattled over the hrewer-rianph, "The zing is the feeding song of a sizzling swamp worm." "I want to see it." And Jill begged, "Come on, Cappy." "The sting of the swamp worm is fatal. We shall go to the Big House instead." Their feeble fingers could not break the robot's iron grip, gentle though it was. They went to the Big House, fussing like two flies stuck to a piece of tanglefoot. "Let's go for a boat ride on the river then," Billy pleaded. "It is forbidden to take you on the river," rumbled Six Seven Eight's speaker. They soon found Administrator Curtis in his porch rocker. "Why can't we have a boat ride?" the twins asked together. "Please, Grandfather?" Moondust shook his head. "The current could sweep you too close to the other bank and Noddies hang from tree limbs out over the water, waiting for things to float past." "What the devil is a Noddy, Grandfather?" And Jill chimed in with, "Are they animals?" "Nobody's sure what they are," the old man muttered. "You don't know whether they're around or what they're going to look like until one of the dad-blasted thingumbobs starts for you." "Oh!" Jill cried, big-eyed, and Billy asked, "Do they eat you?" Moondust said, "Reckon they do. Many's the field hand that's swum too far under water looking for water worms and come up right under a tree limb hanging low over the river, right in the claws of a Noddy that was there waiting for him. The Noddies drag them off into those mountains across the river -- and that's the last you ever see of the native fools." Billy had a logical mind, keen for a nine-year-old. "Why don't those Noddies swim over here and kill people on this side of the river?" "Because their constitutions can't stand soaking in water." "What's constitutions?" asked Jill. "It's their innards," Moon replied. "What do Noddies look like?" Billy asked. "Like almost anything they take a notion to. Sometimes it's a rock; like as not one could be aping a tree stump -- or anything." Billy was the skeptic. "Aw, how could a rock or a bush hurt you?" "Trouble is, they don't stay that way, Billy. When you blunder against one, all of a sudden it gets big and round and arms like those of an octopus come out and grab you." Billy said, "Aw -- " But he was impressed. The children turned back to #. He had become their friend, their confidant, their story-teller. Forty years of Moondust's gusty tales were imprinted on his memory circuits, an inexhaustable store of colorful adventure related verbatim in the vigorous language of his master. It needed only Jill's plea, "Tell us another story. Gappy." IF Oscillation of the brewer-rumph would intensify, the speaker which formed a round "O" where a mouth belonged would crackle and Cappy would begin, always a new yarn: "I remember one scary time when I got stuck on a mile-wide hunk of magnetite fizzling around an orbit out in the Betelgeuse sector -- " Or the story would take another track: "There used to be an old joy joint out in the Red Hills settlement on Mars where dust rats like me could get about every kind of entertainment a fellow could think of. An old witch by the name of Luna Maggie kept the blasted shack. I was sitting there fixing to kill my first liter of dreamer juice when this here dad-blastedandshummox-shucking Venusian went right into a change of gender. The frummel-gnittling chittler was neutral when it came in, but young ones don't have enough experience to feel one of those dag-nabbed transformations coming on in time to get off by themselves. And the dad-burned cycle turned out to be female and I was the first male her eyes turned on. And there I was, with the blasted thingamabob coming straight for me -- " Which brought Teena frothing to Moon. "You've got a stop that filthy mouthed old robot from telling stories to the twins." And Moon would say sadly, "Cappy, we've got to remember we're in civilized company now and watch how we talk." And the robot's speaker would sizzle and an answer finally come: "All data filed in my circuits define this as a remote, primitive planet, sir." "This is the last straw," Teena raged. "I won't have that machine corrupting my children." She stamped into the house and Moon said sadly, "Cappy, we just don't seem to be able to keep out of the doghouse." The robot answered, "The meaning of doghouse is obscure, sir." R# disappeared that night. Moondust Curtis went to sleep in his high-ceilinged bedroom whose broad windows looked past white columns across the sloping Bronta-dotted lawn to the moonsilvered river. Spicy scent of corkroll blossoms drifted into the room. Bronta-fronds rattled like dry bones in a soft southern breeze. An occasional yiku or an eek punctuated the tropic night murmur. Moon's eyes closed and his senses vaguely notified his somnambulant brain that Cappy stood in his accustomed place at the bedside, unsleeping and watchful over his master's health and safety. Middle of the night ululations of a Noddy pack coursing a breeding female disturbed Moon only slightly. Some other type of confusion touched him during the dark hours but he fuzzily equated it with a wild dream whose tentacles clutched him. Moondust awoke to sun in his eyes and a rude racket of rock chickens somewhere in the rose garden. "Shut those things up, Cappy," he muttered, then became aware that no eek or yiku answered. Moon sat up in bed growling, "Cappy, are you getting deaf?" He saw only emptiness where # usually stood. Precariously balancing on the edge of his bed. Moon laboriously adjusted his artificial limbs and pulled on his clothes, rattling the windows meanwhile with frantic bellows for the absent servant. He stomped downstairs, teetering and swaying like a swimmer in a riptide. Teena was the first person to meet him. "Where's Cappy?" he roared. Her pale eyes opened round and wide. "I really don't know." Moon staggered off down the warehouse path, yelping, "Cappy -- " with one breath and, "Henry -- " with the next. Henry tried to make a joke of it. "Never can tell what will happen to junk piles like that robot. Maybe a circuit burned out could be headed for the other side of the planet." He saw the look in Moon's eyes and suddenly assumed an aggrieved tone. "If I took time off my job down here to keep track of that worn-out old machine you'd flay the hide off my back." "That just might happen anyhow if you and that woman have done anything to Cappy." "I don't enjoy knowing that when something goes wrong around here I will automatically be accused of being responsible," the clerk muttered. His words were strong but Henry's voice held an undertone of the born underling's self-pity. Halfway to the Big House, Moondust met the twins. "Why can't you go after Cappy?" they begged. "Please? He'll die. The Noddies are after him." Jill was crying. "Will the Noddies eat him up?" "Mother says he won't ever come back," Billy gulped. Moon roared to silence the breathless stabbing of their words. "Here now -- Be quiet. Who told you the Noddies have Cappy?" Bill stood straight and accusing. "Mother. She says you made him work too hard and that's why he ran away. And you can't bring him back because your legs won't stand going. There's nobody to find him." Moon stomped off to say the harsh things he was thinking to the twins' mother. She had prudently hidden herself. Not until midafternoon did her wailing advertise her. IF "I can't find the twins. What have you done with my children?" She pointed an accusing finger at Moon. Moon stomped away as fast as Ins metal legs would allow him, a fearful certainty in his mind. No special talent was needed to trace them to the river bank. A severed rope which had moored a rowboat told the rest as clearly as if a note had been left behind. The twins were across in the unexplored country of the Noddies, hunting for their robot friend. "You did this," Moon stormed at Teena. "You told them that Cappy went across the river. You've killed those children." Incoherently, between sobs, Teena repeated, "I couldn't think of anything else to tell them. I didn't know they would run away. I didn't know -- " "And you and Henry did something to Cappy, between you. I can't go after those children without Cappy to help me walk. What did you do with Cappy? Quick, While there's time." Teena cried, "I don't know." "All right. Stand there and lie and let your babies die." Teena wrung her hands helplessly a moment, then moaned, "I made Henry dump the robot into the bayou." Henry joined them, saying, "I'm responsible." "Show me where," Moon yelped. "I don't know where," the clerk answered, frightened into a falsetto by Moon's ferocity. "I let a bunch of natives do the job." The old man let out a bellow that shook the Bronta trees and headed for the river, striding with an awkward up and down motion on his artificial limbs. "I'm going across by myself," he called back. "Any minute those poor kids might meet up with one of those thingamabobs. You find Cappy and git a new power pack in him and send him after me or I'll tear you to pieces when I get back." Moondust had a rowboat in the water when he heard the Bryn Mawr female calling. "You can't go alone." "Don't bother me," he roared and slipped the oars into the pins. "I'm going with you." "I haven't got time to take care of any female," he snapped. "I've got two eyes and a shoulder you can lean on," she answered, frosty and impatient. Moon had the blades dug deep by this time and pulled hard. He looked up in time to see the lady pull up her skirts and jump. She landed hard, thumping on to the stem thwart. The boat took some water. Moon roared. "It won't do you any good to use that kind of language," she said firmly. "You need help and I am the only other human being IV on this planet who isn't a sniveling idiot, so kindly continue your rowing." The current rapidly whirled them out. She guided the old man, carefully scanning the opposite bank for a safe place to land, a spot with reasonable chance of being free from any wandering Noddy. The skiffs bottom soon scraped mud and Moon handed her an oar. "Now you hold this boat against the bank while I climb out," he told her. Thumping, catching one metal foot under a thwart, he managed to scramble over the bow and crawl up the muddy slope, turning first to give the boat a hearty shove that sent it swirling out into swift river current. "I can't have you along taking chances on getting killed," he yelled. "Now get on home and make those two crazy people find Cappy and start him after me. I don't want any dead females bothering my conscience." She was scrambling to her knees, screaming, "That was most unkind of you." And she grabbed the oars and worried the boat around, trying to pull awkwardly back tow'ard Moon. "You turn back across that river," he called and entered the dense thicket without giving her opportunity to reply. H umidity pressed upon him like huge balls of damp cotton, soaking his skin with hot perspiration, weighing upon his breath so that it seemed almost viscous to his nostrils. And thornstudded branches tore at the old man. Underfoot there was no kindness for artificial limbs that could not feel and telegraph back to Moon's brain the sudden upthrust of rock, tangle of vine or unseen softness of a swampy spot. Moon stumbled, fell, crawled, pulled himself erect, stumbled and fought each forward inch, calling at intervals the twins' names. No echo came back through deadness of jungle-confined air. On Moon's own side of the river there would have been vocal responses to the noise of his progress: the snort and hiss from a giant lizard, grunts, squeals, hasty stirring of retreating animal feet. But here nothing moved -- nothing but the slow gyrations of a strangler vine caught his eye and not even vagrant whispers of heat-stirred air touched Moon's eardrums. The forest lay dead. Moon's calls died barely beyond his lips, absorbed by heavy foliage. And scattered, worried thoughts of the Noddies stared from subliminal corners of his mind -- no animal species could survive the voraciousness of Noddy appetites, not even the IE weaker Noddies. There was no living being on this side of the river except Noddies. Moon knew he limped toward certain death. He knew the twins were already dead -- yet he hoped for a miracle. When eventually steep incline and dense river forest gave way suddenly to scraggly brush and wide expanse of grassland. Moon just stood there completely spent, breathless, eyes unfocused for several moments. Tn the clearing's center one lone lichen-covered lava block stood man-high, a good place to lean and recover strength. But before moving to it. Moon turned a slow circle, a wary search for the possibility that a wandering Noddy might be close. He drew a breath of relief and out of the corner of his eyes caught a stirring. He froze, afraid to move. Slowly he shifted his gaze and saw the thing. What had seemed a rock half covered with scraggly moss was beginning t o dissolve -- not dissolve, his mind amended, but flow -- or like the trick camera work of Tri-D screens, a second image superimposed itself over another and with increasing speed was blanking out the rock outlines. Ragged moss became a mass of coarse hair. Yellow and green patches of lichenlike growth gathered into warty scales. Rock planes relaxed into a knobby body that suddenly rose upon two heavy legs. A single yellow eye with the glaze of an agate glared from under the thatch of tangled hair and a mouth cracked open beneath, a horrible maw -- narrow, almost pointed arch of teeth, three rows above, three below. A big shark-like mouth in a head nearly as large as the whole body. Moon was quick. He shot even as the false rock had begun its metamorphosis. He could see the passage of the projectile througli the Noddy, its body substance flexing and rolling like a bowwave curling from the prow of a swiftly moving boat and like a wave, subsiding again into the mass from which it had risen. There was no second shot. Change came too fast. Even as a mouth formed over the rock-like first image, tentacles whipped out and Moon found himself in their tight curls. The Noddy moved with him, bounding high over bushes, growing in stature as it raced aw'ay. Moon could hear breath snore in its single wrinkled nostril. He could hear a peculiar bubbling, like a chuckle, deep in the Noddy's throat, as if it laughed in ecstatic anticipation. And he could smell the beast -- a filthy carrion scent. They whipped through a Bronta forest, then out on a barren slope. The Noddy headed up its steep surface, leaping over crevices and over crumpled up-thrusting dikes of heat-puddled lava. Moon's captor topped the ridge. An ancient crater lay below. The Noddy screamed and answering howls rose from the crater floor. Jumping, sliding, the Noddy flipped in a corkscrew course around the volcanic throat and raced across the jagged bottom toward basalt cliffs. There the tentacle coils unwound suddenly and Moon slammed upon pitted rock and rolled against the blackened wall. He sat up, painfully scratched. More of the frightful beings faced him, each with a single glazed eye focused unwinkingly upon Moon. Sudden silence let his heart sound like a drum in Moon's ears. Then he heard a low sobbing coming from around the edge of a buttress leaning from the crater wall. For a moment he thought it to be a variation upon the Noddy's ululations. Then a human voice spoke -- Billy, shaky but trying to comfort a crying Jill. "Billy -- " called Moon, and the twins ran into his arms. He turned to shield them but the frightful apparitions stared and made no menacing gesture toward their prisoners. The Noddies gathered in a group perhaps thirty feet away. They squatted in a semicircle and watched, tentacles at rest. It seemed they waited for something. The waiting was not long. Some time before Moondust could sense any sound the Noddies rose from their squat and turned to face the opposite crater wall. And several breaths later, more of their tribe appeared high on the rim. They screamed and held high a human body. It could be no other than the Bryn Mawr female. "Stubborn woman," Moon thought. The Noddies bounded in a circular sidehill slant toward the crater bottom. Their comrades at the bottom began a weird prolonged scream and were soon answered. Sound rose and reverberated on the crater walls throughout the descent, until the climbers leaped over the last barrier of brush and tossed their burden in a rolling tumble toward Moon. The old man was able to place himself as a buffer between the Bryn Mawr female and the jagged rock wall but the collision sent him tumbling. She helped him up, saying with wry coolness, "We're in something of a pickle." Moon scarcely heard. "That hard metal in my legs hurt you?" She said, "Not as much as the rock would have." The Noddies squatted again, all but one. It moved in a swaying short-step dance from one end of their line to the other. Then the thing faced them and its enormous mouth opened. The other Noddies opened their mouths in unison. IF The leader snapped his shut, and the triple row of sharp teeth clicked unpleasantly. The Noddy line clicked teeth in response. Then, one at a time, each imitated the steps of the leader. "Interesting," said the Bryn Mawr person. "I would think this is some kind of ritual preparation for dining." She scribbled in her notebook. "Won't do you any good to write in that book," Moon told her. "We're done for." "I am aware of that. T am aware also that the human being often muddles his way out of utterly hopeless situations. I shall conceal my notebook in some crevice at the last moment and hope it will be found and a bit more information added to man's store." Moon said suddenly "You're quite a lady." The corners of her mouth crinkled. The Noddy dance became more complicated now, their line swaying in hop-step toward the captives. Frenzy crept into the ceremony. Noddies' breathing quickened, snoring loudly through single nostrils. Only a few feet separated the monsters from their captives now. A low wail added itself to the clash of teeth. A new sound sifted through the cacophony: Eek hoowah hoowoh hrewer-rumph, yikti hoowah-hoowoh brewer-rumph. Moon roared, "Gappy!" The children were crying, "Gappy -- here's Gappy -- " Loose rock rattled down the crater wall and Robot # followed,sliding the last dozen feet to thump with a clattering of metal. "Get us out of this mess, you damned tin can," Moon yelped. R#'s speaker sizzled and his flat tones answered, "It will be necessary to furnish more data re the meaning of 'mess,' sir." Before Moon could reply the Noddies began their last rush, jaws wide, a moaning sound of anticipation in their throats. Gappy turned and moved out to meet them, arms flailing. The pack swarmed upon him, four of the stinking creatures at once. They sprang, jaws crunching upon the robot's arms and legs. Gappy went down. Four Noddy voices screamed in waves of ascending yells. They backed away from the robot, howling. Tentacles writhed toward mouths. There was blood on the gaping jaws, a thick greenish purple. Pieces of broken teeth fell from the mouths. A fifth Noddy plunged upon the prostrate robot and clamped its jaws on a waving leg. Its scream rose above the other four and it stood, tentacles reaching into its mouth. Moon yelled, "Go to it. Gappy -- break their jaws!" But the Noddies backed away from #. They passed him, ignoring the kicking legs, moving more warily now toward the other captives. The Bryn Mawr person turned to hug the children closer and cover them with her body. Moon stood between them and the advancing tribe, knowing this was the end. The old man hobbled out to meet the fright things. He picked up a rock large enough to crush a skull and brought it down hard on the leading Noddy's head. The rock twisted and curved off, shunted by the strange yielding flesh of the Noddy. Every bit of Moon's strength had been in the blow. He followed the rock to the ground, rolling on his back, helpless, legs waving in the air. And the Noddies were upon him, great jaws clamping down on those thrashing limbs. And they screamed and backed away, spitting out broken teeth. "My legs -- my legs -- " Moon called out. "They broke their jaws on these damned imitation legs! ' Moon rolled over and thrust a leg at the nearest Noddy. It backed away, howling. "Come on, Cappy!" Moon shouted. "Bust some more teeth!" R# clanked to his feet and stomped toward the Noddies, The Bryn Mawr female helped Moon to his feet and the humans faced the howling aborigines. Humans stepped forward and the Noddies edged backward. "Run, you frummel-gnittling chittlcrs," Moondust taunted. He staggered after them, ripping off every colorful piece of vocabulary he knew. And suddenly the monsters broke, whirled toward the crater's opposite wall and up its steep side in ten-foot leaps. Their howling could be heard long after the things disappeared over the rim. Tecna heard an old familiar eek hoowah-hoowoh brewerriuuph, yikii hoowah-hoowoh hrewer-rumph and saw against the growing gray of river fog the tall awkward form of # clumping along, Moondust sitting conir fortably in the crook of one. arm, the other hand holding the little fingers of Jill, with Billy grasping her right hand, and the Bryn Mawr person striding alongside. And the last mellowing stage crept over Moon. He found himself thinking of her as a companion -- with Tcena, the allergic clerk and the uncommitted Venusian cook banished to Administration house. But those who wailed were aware of nothing but eek hoowah-hoowoh brewerrumph, yiku hoowah-hoowoh brewer-rumph. What went on in Moon's mind sprang at them much later, like a Noddy.  IF But each time Levy's murderous attack drove him out. He lost the point and retired to the clinic. The bored paramed had an ulnar pin ready to insert. He quickly swabbed Zuliani's elbow and stabbed the skin. Zuliani put his mind elsewhere as the drill moved the long pin down the medullary space of the broken bone, splinting the fragments from the inside. "Forty minutes," announced a sibilant voice from Zuliani's belt. He closed his eyes and cautiously relaxed his autonomies. Pain appeared, delineating the fracture lines around the pin in his left forearm. Lesser soft-tissue traumas went unnoticed by his cerebral cortex. Tears welled up momentarily. Then, as the nerve endings dulled, he slept. The paramed covered him with a blanket and quietly tidied up his surgical tray for the afternoon Games. Robert Zuliani the Sixth (sixth generation colonist from Earth) had just lost in Procyon's Semifinals, bested by the bulky Negro, Levy. In less than an hour they both would reenter the Ring to face new opponents: Levy fighting for a First Place, Zuliani for Third. Meanwhile they rested, while recharging their neurones. Zuliani's belt soothed him with his favorite gladiator music, the low notes slightly distorted by its resonance limitations. The music stopped. "Five minutes," announced the belt. Zuliani sat up, wincing at the arm pain. He concentrated. The pain diminished. He reasoned that his next opponent would probably have essentially the same number of injuries, having faced the same number of Ring encounters, so his own pinned ulna shouldn't be too much of a handicap. Stoically he walked out to face Jones -- young, sinewy and a genetic Amerind. L eaving the clinic's astringent odors, Zuliani returned to the Ring and the ominous smell of death -- blood and urine spilled by the decerebrate losers. Jones approached stiff-legged. Much of his racial pigmentation was now masked by layers of protective -- as well as rather anonymous -- syntheskin. Zuliani hoped the limp indicated a serious knee injury, such as a rewired patella. (It took more than self-hypnosis to get a weight-bearing joint's function back.) Their telemetered cardiograms ticked off a hundred regular beats and the paramed nodded them into the thirty-yard-diameter Ring. Jones's limp vanished as he circled warily. Sparring, they assessed each other's reaction times. Feinting and blocking, they quickly burned up what little nervous reserve they had been hoarding for this final match. IF Jones, a serious businessman, directed a growing mining operation. He considered The Games an avocation; tomorrow he'd be back exploiting the planet's mineral resources. His strength and enthusiasm had carried him this far, but to him it was still just a game. On the other hand, Zuliani was a born competitor. He had literally been bred for the Ring, his parents being selected for their winning qualities. The cybernetic belt he wore marked him as one of the Competitor genetic lines. His parents had "won" and his entire lifetime had been spent in preparation. The belt had raised him, setting his habits and providing for his essentials. He had been honed for the Games. In their stumbling they found themselves grappling awkwardly. Zuliani locked his grip around Jones's waist and wrenched him off his feet. Jones threw his arms out wide and chopped viciously at Zuliani's straining neck -- bruising the soft tissues under the angle of the jaw and depolarizing the nerves in the carotid sinus. Zuliani's heart stopped. Zuliani felt a dull flop in his chest as his heart squeezed out its last beat, marking the beginning of the loud silence of asystole. Terror showed on his face but his mind schemed. He still had almost a minute to win the point. His grip tightened to the sound of a wet popping in Jones's spine, until cerebral anoxia tipped him over. His telemetered cardiac arrest brought the resuscitator team to oxygenate his convulsing body. Jones limped from the Ring. The team worked. Zuliani's encephalogram hardly missed a spike but his cardiogram remained isoelectric. The clock ran. Suddenly the team jumped back, as if they had just roped and tied a calf. Zuliani's heart was beating again and the point was still to be won. The paramed counted out a hundred systoles and waved Jones back into the Ring. Zuliani's gaze cleared. He rolled over into a crouch -- alert. Zuliani's neck and shoulder muscles bunched and twitched. Jones stood there for a moment, evaluating the killer he faced, while his own aches and pains welled up against him. Zuliani's last bear-hug had momentarily displaced several vertebrae and had polarized his lumbar autonomies -- nerves he relied upon to mask the pain impulses from his legs injuries. His gait became stiff-legged in spite of his concentration. He backed out of the ring. Zuliani pounced -- feinting -- psychologically driving his opponent back from the edge of the ring. Jones weighed his chances in the ring against the immediate relief of the pain medication. Fourth place was good enough for a hobby. He had his family, his job -- and another chance next year. Opting for fourth, Jones reclined on the floor, leaving Zuliani standing alone. T hird place in The Games. It seemed to satisfy the belt. But it didn't satisfy Zuliani. A year earlier he had placed tenth in the planetwide Long Run. Now he would travel to the equator and train for next year's thirty-hour Swim. He'd probably not even make the top ten in that event. A fine Competitor he was turning out to be. He stopped in front of a public dispenser, ignoring the credit card slot. A rivet-sized optic pickup on his belt focused. His index finger moved down the list of choices, pausing at a stringy protein, a semiliquid carbohydrate and a small, sticky fat. Each time his finger stopped, his belt spoke silently to the machine, and the food item dropped into the chute. "Thanks, belt," he said, eating. "Y'welcome." T he year in the Tropics went smoothly for Zuliani. His belt -- in contact with several of the alert cybernetic off-shore buoys -- led him to ample ocean edibles. His ab-iron and spear supplied protein, while machinecultivated flora supplied carbohydrates. He seldom had to resort to the dispensers. , He fathered an eight-pound baby girl and placed seventh in the Long Swim. Jones placed fiftyfourth, and Levy -- lacking an adequate amount of subcutaneous fat -- dragged himself in after the "medal positions" were closed. "That's another medal for us," congratulated his belt as he crawled up on the twin-hulled "cat" after his swim. "But no first places," he gasped, glancing at the six exhausted humans who had arrived before him. "You've medaled straight through. Your profile may be the current highest," reassured the belt. His profile proved the highest and the celebration lasted three days. Overindulgence -- considered a vice by everyone of the competitors -- brought little joy to Zuliani. But he mingled easily with the celebrants, accepting their accolades. His profile did entitle his new daughter to a ceremonial genetic belt of the type he wore through life; and this gladdened him. It assured her of status in life -- a Competitor. After her belt was awarded he bowed out, taking one of the single-seaters to a mountain retreat. T he hovercraft slipped quietly out of the cloud layer and hung for a moment above the damp fir trees. Its headlights flickered about, searching. Then, IF deep among the trees, a small, rustic cabin blinked back; and the craft landed. A fireplace came to life as the cabin's circuits awoke. Wisp of resin-scented smoke curled out of the conglomerate chimbrain ruminated a moment and then roused its sleeping cargo. "Up, Zuliani. You're here." Blinking, he stumbled from the craft and shuffled up the path, allowing most of his mind and body to enjoy the languid state of half-sleep. Sullen softwoods crowded out of the night mists. The cool mountain air went unnoticed as he pictured the soft bed that awaited him. The craft's directional speaker focused soft music on his receding back. "Zuliani?" came the questioning voice of a female in the darkness over his right shoulder. Turning, he peripherally saw a shadowy form. "Kick, kick, kick!" shouted his belt. Instantly he bent over at the waist and drove his right heel out hard. A bright flash warmed the air and the acrid stench of singed moss filled his olfactory bulbs. tumble into the moist pine needles and heard the sound of his assailant thrashing in the brush. He crouched, silent. A small flame flickered up in the moss and then went out. The assailant's movements stopped. "Thanks, belt," he whispered. "Welcome," said the belt. Belatedly, bright lights from the cabin illuminated the low, white clouds, bringing bright high-noon visibility. "We're alone," reassured the belt. He stood up and walked to the still form of his assailant. A female. Her abdominal muscles were still twitching, but no breath moved through her open mouth. He felt no pulse. Between her breasts he saw his brown-stained heel print. The sternum was depressed and made gritty sounds when he palpated it. Fractured. And probably displaced into the mediastinum, cutting off venous blood flow back to the heart. He grabbed both of her wrists and jerked them over her head, levering the bone fragments up. Her heart fluttered and began to beat as soon as the pressure was taken off the large veins. Slie gasped several times, mouthing like a dry fish. Her face pinked up. She looked to be about his age, mid-twenties. A stranger. Not unattractive. Dressed in a thermal suit and boots. Empty holster. A small back pack. "Assassin," said his belt in a matter-of-fact tone. He raised his eyebrows. "How can you tell?" "Her cold, businesslike expression as she squeezed the trigger. Her finger was already starting to tighten as you turned. No question about it. She was just going to kill you. Fry you on the spot -- no questions asked," answered the belt. H er eyes opened wide -- briglit, screaming sclerae. Her face tightened into a grimace exposing regular, white teeth. Growling and clawing for his throat, she tried to leap up, only to invite another thrust against her already damaged breast bone. She went down in a heap, and he resuscitated her by pressing her elbows up over her head. "Relax! Take it easy or I'll turn you off again," he warned. Her eyes opened. This time they appeared glassy and failed to focus. The last anoxic episode must have scrambled her memory a bit, he thought. He tightened the straps of her back pack to splint her rib cage. Then he carried her into the cabin where 'he quickly taped her shoulders back with a heavy figure-eight bandage. Then her breathing became easier. She lay still, watching him as he deactivated the Bodkin HI. Leaving his belt to watch her, Zuliani crawled wearily into the other bunk and slept soundly. "Visitors," announced the belt. The prisoner opened her eyes but remained still. Zuliani sat up. He heard footsteps approaching the cabin. The door opened and four uniformed young men stepped quickly inside. They carried hand weapons. An older soldier, thick of neck and wrist, remained outside. He beckoned for Zuliani to join him. "Colonel Budd. We're Alien Security," the older soldier said as he shook Zuliani's hand firmly. "Alien?" repeated Zuliani blankly. "Your prisoner," began the colonel. "Oh, I keep forgetting how naive some of you Competitors are. You were almost killed by an off-worlder last night. She -- or it -- is from another planet. Another star system altogether. Your capturing it was a break for us. Gives us a hostage as well as a specimen for study." Zuliani glanced back inside. He knew of life on other planets -- his ancestors had come from one. Earth. But other planets held man. Humans, not aliens. "But we've never heard of -- " began the belt. The colonel glanced down at the four-inch wide belt -- featureless except for a few small rivets -- audio membranes and microcircuits hidden in its eighthof-an-inch thinness. "You're not supposed to be here. This is classified," said the colonel. He motioned for one of his aides. The belt loosened itself and was carried silently into the cabin. IF The colonel waited until they were alone and continued : "She's a Dreg. A non-human. Subhuman. Her race lives out in the Rim of our galaxy. They have some sort of a bizarre relationship with their machines -- use them for reproduction and everything. This is the first time I've ever seen one of them away from its machine. I'm half afraid it'll selfdestruct or something." They were interrupted by a squad of parameds carrying a stretcher into the cabin. The number of soldiers in the area seemed to be increasing. Zuliani stared. "But she doesn't look much different -- " "Oh, she's one of them, all right. Easy to spot. Full of wires and transmitters. Show up' on the scope like one of our selfcontained communicator booths," said the colonel. The Dreg was carried out, her willowy frame strapped firmly to the stretcher. Armed guards glanced warily about. They filed down the trail and into a large personnel carrier. Other military hovercraft were scattered about the valley at treetop level. "Zuliani, you might as well return to the base with us," suggested Colonel Budd. The silent guard formed up behind them, giving Zuliani little choice in the matter. The belt made the trip in one of the lesser vehicles. Its. optic pickup cleared and it eyed the Dreg's back pack and Bodkin The morning sun burned tlie mists out of the little valley. As the troops left, silence returned. In a few minutes the cabin's circuits had returned to standby. noticed the Dreg's face go white. She started to retch. He motioned for one of the parameds to help and they hastily unbuckled her shoulder strap. She sat up and vomited copiously. Her sternum gave an audible crunch with each effort. Then she collapsed back onto the stretcher, breathing weakly. Comfortable in the colonel's cabin, Zuliani and Budd watched the Dreg on the viewscreen. Her straps had been loosened and the parameds -- mostly young and conscious -- quickly busied themselves around the now trembling female form. "Lucky for you that we arrived in time. No telling what they would have tried next," said the colonel. "How did you know?" asked Zuliani. "Your class sevens reported up through channels. Of course they didn't know the significance of it -- not knowing about the Dregs. But when it reached the class threes, we were then notified," answered Budd. Budd explained that the Dreg spaceship had appeared in the Procyon system about thirty years ago, carrying human genetic material. The suspended sperm, eggs, embryos and fetuses had been part of the cargo of one of Earth's Implant Starships -- the one bound Out Galaxy to Andromeda. Neither the genetic material nor the Implant Starship had been damaged and the Dregs continued to maintain that their intentions were peaceful -- until this attack on Zuliani. "If they are so peaceful -- why did they stop our ancestor's starship in the first place?" ask(d Zuliani. "They don't want man to leave this galaxy. Oh, it is more complicated than that. But their view of mankind is some sort of a naked anthropoid cluttering up planets with his babies and civilized garbage. Their machinerun planets are supposed to be long on flowers and philosophy and short on men. Those Dregs! They worship natural beauty -- open space -- unspoiled, virgin planets. They shudder at our random approach to our ecology -- violence, madness and disease. After we 'contaminate' a star system they find it no longer suitable for meditation. The way we're going they fear that only the other galaxies will have a chance to remain pure and unspoiled. Their machines are powerful and they control the Rim. They can probably keep us here -- unless we want to go to war. And the politicians don't want that," said Budd. "But they are still holding our spaceship," said Zuliani belligerently. "Isn't that an act of war?" The colonel shrugged. "They're too clever for that. They say that they'll return the ship, or -- they'll let it continue its journey as a scout ship. One human can go." "One human -- no sexual reproduction." "Right." "And the other Earth life forms: the plants and animals in suspension?" "Intact." "The Tattering apparatus?" "Intact. With mechanical embryogenesis the scout could make genetic carbon copies of himself from any of his diploid, somatic cells. Theoretically he could put armies all over Andromeda -- each surrounded by an Earth biosphere of plants and animals," said Colonel Budd. Zuliani thought for a minute or two. The Tatteripg apparatus -- standard equipment in most starships -- provided efficient genetic copying. A single cell from a carrot, frog or a man could be embryonated into a new individual. All that was required was a class VI computer, a IF greenhouse life-support system and time. Gestation by that method took no longer than when triggered sexually. When Professor Tatter had succeeded in producing the first human being in his prototype machine he had said something about "predictable genetic copying" and an "improved race of man." Obviously the Dregs had a similar attitude toward a monogenetic. Tattered race of humans. Being all of one sex they'd be dependent on the mechanical asexual reproduction. Not much danger of "contaminating" a planet. The technology required to support the Tattering apparatus was infinitely greater than the requirements of a pregnant human female. Colonel Budd continued: "The Dregs have no fear of a machinedependent mankind. We'd be like them. They'd probably consider us a higher form of life -- like themselves -- and they could deal with us as equals." At their destination the personnel carrier landed immediately while the lesser craft stacked themselves in the sky to await instructions. The Dreg -- apparently asleep -- was rushed into a low-profile blockhouse under heavy guard. Colonel Budd and Zuliani strolled more leisurely towards a tall glass-and-plastictower. Everyone they passed wore a large T.D. badge. Heavy gates and doors buzzed open and shut as they passed. Zuliani began to get apprehensive. The reason for his presence became clearer as the guards casually nodded him through the gates -- him with nothing more than his face to identify him. Obviously he was more than the object of an attempted assassination. He was to be the Andromeda scout. foil and ceramic costume. Designed to lull the Dregs, this comic "space-scout suit" had been embellished with gaudy boots, gauntlets, helmet and even with extremely unsophisticated electronic gewgaws. Even his belt, which contained a class VI brain, had been disguised with a scabbard and small tool kits. The captive mended while the colonel negotiated. The Dreg ship sat exactly where it had appeared thirty years before, a human force field covering it. The military base which had grown up around it controlled the aliens' contacts with the planet. Communications and visitors were monitored. On the other hand, the Dregs seemed eager to have themselves and their ship's gear examined. Their machines appeared competent but not overly bright. Children were born on the ship, whose quarters provided room for about a hundred adults. They aged rapidly, but none seemed to be over the age of thirty. Negotiations went along very, very smoothly. Dreg command soon apologiz for the actions of the assassin -- claimed she acted as an individual, and offered to have lier executed when she was released. The colonel demurred. The captive remained in her cell. The Dregs agreed to free the Andromeda starship. They would accept Zuliani as the scout and transport him out to their Rim territory with their own ship.  w ULiANi sat by the captive's bunk, his helmet balanced on his knee. A delicate chain tethered her right ankle to a ring in the wall. Her guileless conversations truly fascinated him. Evidently the Dregs never learned to lie. Or they couldn't. Or -- and the possibility worried him -- they were the best liars in the universe. She sat up and began brushing her hair whenever he visited. The crackle of the static electricity seemed to relax her. Perhaps it helped drown out whatever bugging devices were built into herself or the room. "Glad to see you haven't left." "Because when I do go it'll mark the end of your way of life?" he said, picking up the conversation where they had left off the previous morning. She continued to brush. Her arms still moved stiffly, as her clavicles and pectoralis muscles were tender from her injury. She had been born on this planet and so was probably younger than he. Her Meck-angel -- the machine she grew up with -- had mentioned he began. "But we're treating you Zuliani's competition record when well." the colonel had announced his "Only because it serves your winning the High Profile award, purposes," she said. "You'd kill Her eyes reflected her hatred. me in a minute if you could "You still dislike us humans," benefit from it." a? He started to object mildly. She continued; "I know youVe going to say it was my gun up in the mountains. But the fact that I failed to kill you points out the differences in our cultures. We Symbiots -- or Dregs, as you call us -- are very peaceful. From an ordered, peaceful planet. We have no competition for survival -- no famine, war or disease. We don't waste nature's resources. We just improve our minds and bodies. And -- and -- " she searched for words. "And are happy" he supplied. "We're really no match for you -- killers -- carnivores. You who actually are trained to kill. That's repulsive," she said. Zuliani leaned into the conversation. "You call us killers and shudder. Aren't you competing with us for Andromeda? Weren't you planning to kill for your aims?" "Not at all," she answered. "We're not going to colonize Andromeda. We seldom have the need to add a new planet to our federation. We just don't want to .see you humans rushing out there while you're still a young, ignorant race. You'll spoil it. Waste the resources and clutter it up with your -- civilization." "But later it will be okay?" be asked. "Certainly. When you have evolved into a more conservative race -- such as our own. Then perhaps vve can explore together -- with our machines." "But you don't want me to go now -- as a scout?" he said. Her voice became sullen. "You're no scout. You're a Competitor. Suffering or waste doesn't bother you. You'll try to go out there and populate the next galaxy just because it is thre. You don't want to save anything for the future races." They stared silently at each other for a moment. Then Zuliani shrugged and left. Their conversations were always the same. II J through the mockup of the alien craft. "Td swear that their machines arc getting simpler each year. Here is their astrogation center. Sec how all the star maps are projected from the Rim and again from the Hub. They don't seem to favor any one Arm more than another. Makes it hard for us to evaluate which zones they actually control. "Their suspension apparatus is quite similar to ours -- graded hypothermia, oxygen squeeze and hypertonics. Similarities in life support are obvious. Their physiology is almost identical to ours. But here is where the problems come in -- bulkheads," said the colonel. Zuliani palpated the mock-up walls -- three and four feet of smooth-surfaced dividers between the ship's compartments. "Our engineers tell us there is no reason for much of the space these walls take up. In some sections you could squeeze whole extra rooms into the damn walls. I'm suspicious -- but I can't very well go cutting into their ship without their permission," said the colonel. Zuhani shrugged again. After talking to the captive he'd accept almost any explanation for the unused space taken up by wall width -- probably part of Dreg religion -- to save some space for the future generations. T he next day Zuliani met one of the Dreg's machines -- supposedly the Meck-angel which had raised the captive female assailant. It stood four feet high -- a small head and body on soft, bulky treads. It had two arms, two eyes and a mandiblelike mouth that clicked when it talked. "Click, click. You Zuliani? You scout?" it asked awkwardly. Zuliani fingered the hilt of a new broadsword that hung by his left side. A bright red cape draped his left shoulder, contrasting sharply with the silver sheen of his ceramic and foil costume. 'Mc scout," he said. His belt winced. The force fields were shut down and the Meck-angel led Zuliani, the colonel and his entourage into the belly of the alien starship. A half a dozen Dregs of assorted sizes and body colors were installing a suspension tank for the scout. It was hard to believe that they were all genetic carbon copies -- but by means of hormone management, their bodies had been molded -- pituitary hormones for size, and gonadal hormones for sexual characteristics. Body paints added to the variety. Two large male Dregs helped the parameds hook up the fiftyliter container of suspension fluids. The tank's membranes would use the alien's life-support fluids for the gas exchange. "Click, click. What are in these small tanks?" asked the Meckangel. The paramed moved his index finger across the row of transparent bottles connected to the pump by a web of tubes. "Induction sedatives. Energy concentrate. And also rewarming sedatives -- " There was one bottle left. " "And -- click, click, click?" "And adrenal steroids to buffer his system against the shock," said the paramed. Zuliani glanced at the controls. The low temperature readings frightened him a little. But he knew that the alien faster-thanlight drive involved powerful fields. Stress lines would polarize any living cell that was not frozen solid. He was not afraid of the hazards themselves -- he simply preferred to be awake when he faced them. But he would have to sleep through this one. B ack in the briefing room an aide asked for Zuliani's belt and took it out of the room. "You are leaving tonight. The medic here is going to give you a run-down on this transparent mannequin, pointing out the latest data we have on the Dregs' personal circuitry. These small transducers in the skull may be used to communicate directly to the cerebral cortex. This could give the appearance of mental telepathy. The energy converters are here in the large leg muscles. Autonomies are heavily wired for monitoring -- should be able to control pain and emotions better than you. And remember -- the Meck-angel may very well be in charge, not the biological humanoid," said Colonel Budd. As the medic began to outline the circuits, Zuliani wondered where they had gotten such detailed information. He hoped it hadn't come from a dissection. But then he caught himself -- after all, these were aliens he was thinking about. "Now about the Dregs' genetics," the medic continued. "They have an uneven number of chromosomes. This explains their dependence on machines for their reproduction. The nuclear material is decidedly human -- just a minor error here," he said, pointing to the karyogram. "This then matches up as two X chromosomes -- the larger ones. And this tiny one looks like a Y. We've decided that the best They are unable to make haploid sex cells -- no eggs or sperms. But -- by exposing the embryo to high levels of estrogen -- they can cause the female organs to develop fairly normally. And a high testosterone level would give them a passable male body. But they're sterile." Zuliani glanced up. "An extra chromosome?" "Yes. They have forty-seven. Normal humans have fortysix -- forty-four somatic and two sex." Sterile, thought Zuliani -- remembering the definitely male and female Dregs he had seen. "Isn't there something that can be done to correct it? If there is just one extra chromosome?" asked Zuliani. The medic smiled and continued that line of thought. "Why don't we just pick out the extra one -- leaving a normal cell? In theory it sounds fine. Actually there is a human genetic IF Klinefelter's syndrome. B y removing an X it leaves an XY pair (normal male) -- and by removing the Y it leaves an XX pair (female). Research biologists working with cell cultures from these patients have been successful in removing the chromosomes many times. They have to do it under phase microscopy as the living cell goes into metaphase at the beginning of cell division (when the chromosomes can be seen best). But so far -- nothing. Going through the nuclear membranes with a hook is not the best way to get a good cell division. There are molecular and ionic forces at work, dividing up the genetic material. And sticking anything into the cell just wrecks everything. Maybe some day," answered the medic. It looked easy on paper. Oh, well. Zuliani glanced at the colonel. "Now Zuliani, we want to give you a posthypnotic suggestion. Something important to you and the human race -- for when you arrive at the starship. You'll be traveling in the Dregs' ship, so there is no way we can communicate with you without their knowing. Just put yourself in a trance and the hypnotists will take over from there." Zuliani snapped his mind out of his body, using the same techniques that protected him from pain during the Games. When he woke up he was on the Implant Starship leaving the Galaxy for Andromeda. Ill i t T T ow do you feel?" asked XI the high-pitched voice. "Fine, belt," Zuliani answered, picking up his familiar companion. "It was a rough trip. They brought you up to a light sleep several times and questioned you about your mission." "Did they learn anything?" asked Zuliani. He could remember nothing that would indicate that this was anything other than a scout mission. Perhaps the posthypnotic suggestion would clarify everything -- but so far he drew a blank. His mind was a vacuum after his self-induced trance. His belt continued: "When they started probing your mind I got so worried that my anxiety circuits must have overheated. Tliey detected me and took me away. I don't know what happened the rest of the trip. How is your memory? Any big voids?" . "No. I don't think so. I guess they are pretty refined with their erasing. Or else they didn't find anything worth erasing," said Zuliani. "How does the starship check out?" "Fine," said the belt. "A servo took me through the hull. Plenty of Earth genes are represented in the suspension tanks -- plants, animals, even microorganisms. But no humans." "The Clicks and Dregs were that thorough? I'm the only human on board?" asked Zuliani. "Yes." "Well, I wonder what the colonel had in mind." "All you need is a source of female genes. There isn't any skin under your fingernails, is there?" asked the belt -- half in jest. "No." Zuliani smiled. "But the cells would have to be alive and capable of division in our Tattering apparatus. No sense in searching for secret compartments in my sword or other gear either. Outside of suspension the Dreg's faster-than-light drive would have killed any cytoplasmic units they might have carried." They rechecked the gear and his outlandish costume. Nothing. He began to notice a number of unexpected aches and pains as the rewarming drugs wore off, so he settled down in his control couch to rest -- and think. "Message from the Dregs," announced the ship. "I'll take it here," he said and turned toward the viewscreen. "Qick, click. Have a nice scouting trip. Don't forget to send your message torpedo back to Procyon. We wouldn't want them to worry.' "Can we answer that?" asked Zuliani. "Probably," replied the ship. "We're still under light-speed one. But there is no need to. If we send the torpedo they'll detect its trail through their system." Zuliani considered not sending it. That would upset the military and raise doubts about the Dregs' good intentions. Perhaps it would lay the groundwork for a future space war. Well, he'd send it. Play by the rules and see what happens. After the ship filled the torpedo's memory banks he added a postscript with some of his suspicions and sent it back. ing section while the machine harvested his buffy coat for cell cultures. About half a pint of his blood went through the separator, which removed his white blood cells. The red cells and plasma were transfused back. The buffy layer -- a light yellow-white mixture of plasma and white cells -- was suspended for future embryogenesis. About three ounces a day were harvested. He tried to be cheerful. "We can start a monogenetic line and build a civilization that rivals the Dregs," he said. "Unfortunately that isn't possible," said the starship. "A cell line can not replicate indefinitely. After about fifty or a hundred IF doublings the cell line dies out of old age. Each nucleus seems to have a molecular clock that ticks off the cell divisions. When an organism uses up its ticks -- it dies. Sexual reproduction is needed to make a new organism with a new clock." He looked at the ship's optic pickup. "But how do the Dregs manage? he asked. "A hundred doublings, more or dividual cells. By using threefourths of the doublings to make cell cultures they've grown a massive supply of genetic units. But that leaves only one-fourth of the doublings for each individual's life span -- and you probably noticed that all the Dregs were under thirty. That is about a fourth of the usual human life span. However, there is evidence that they are getting to the end of their material. The Clicks will soon have to adopt a few humans or go on working without biological units for pets," said the ship. Zuliani doubted that many humans would accept the Clicks on the same terms the Dregs had. But then, the Dregs were quite sterile and had no alternative. said the Meck-angel over the viewscreen. The appellation depressed Zuliani, but that was what he had become -- a symbiot. A human alone in intergalactic space, away from his species and dependent on machines for asexual reproduction. Then the alien machine shucked its angular jaw. Its voice lost its metallic quality as a featureless, egg-shaped "head" drifted up from the silent husk of its robot facade. "Go on to the next galaxy and explore. Live with your machines, Symbiot. But go knowing that you failed to deceive us. We removed your uterus and ovaries, so you can't contaminate Andromeda with your primitive race," said the alien. Zuliani didn't understand. The message continued : "Foolish, Our technicians knew that your steroid treatment was a protective cover for a graft, but female sex organs were so obvious! But a hermaphroditic space scout would be your race's answer to the problem we have offered -- reflecting the ingenuousness of a race that has been in space only a few centuries -- " The message became fragmented as their acceleration carried them up into light-speed and the cone of blackness blotted out the center of the screen. Zuliani palpated his abdomen. Syntheskin still covered his body, sprayed on to protect him from friction during his suspension. A tender spot below the umbilicus? Masked by the generalized aches and pains of rewarming and hidden under the syntheskin, he found the small incision in his lower abdomen. So that was it! The colonel must have bungled the posthypnotic suggestion, but he could imagine what it had been. Fill the sperm banks first -- since the same body can't produce both eggs and sperm at the same time. Then with a heavy dose of estrogens he could bring the infantile uterus and ovaries to maturity in a few years to provide the eggs. Basic biology. Almost too basic. The Clicks had discovered it and thwarted him. Mankind would have to wait a while longer before it could go Out Galaxy. Depressed, he went back into suspension to wait out the long trip. M any years later the starship orbited a likely looking star in the Rim of Andromeda. There were two planets to choose from, both Earthlike. The Tattering systems activated. Mobile surface units were put on both planets to compare the environments. The nearer planet finally was selected and Zuliani was rewarmed. His memory was intact and he was still depressed by his defeat at the hands of the Clicks. Then a cold fear dampened his axillae and bleached out his adrenals. The Tattering apparatus contained males and females -- fetuses of all sizes and colors. "That is a Click trick -- hormones, dye. What am I on? A Click ship?" he asked. His belt reassured him: "This isn't a Click ship. I would know. Take me to the Tattering controls." He studied the controls. His belt's optic pickup focused on the readouts. "No overriding hormone controls here. Those fetuses are developing with their own hormones and genes," said the belt. "But those were my cells. I'm not a mosaic. I'm just one individual," he protested. The starship activated a viewscreen in front of them and projected the standard list of # genetic types of Earth humans. "These red arrows indicate the genetic types we have already identified in the incubators. Red dots are probables -- yellow dots are possibles. Apparently your bloodstream was filled with the Rainbow Mix of white cells just prior to suspension. With an umbrella of steroids to prevent rejection most of the cells survived and are now producing daughter cells. You have acquired mosaicism," said the ship. "What will that do to me?" he asked apprehensively. IF "Nothing. We'll harvest buffy coat for a couple weeks and then stop the steroids. After that, your own antibodies will clean your system of any foreign cells," said the ship. Zuliani smiled. The Rainbow Mix -- designed for suspensionstorage in the Tattering apparatus -- but evidently capable of setting up a limited kind of "housekeeping" in the vascular spaces of his spleen, lymph nodes and marrow. He'd get rid of them before they got a good hold on his marrow. He didn't want them to reject him. But meanwhile, they represented mankind. T he human race had come to Andromeda in the body of Zuliani. Now it was poised on the rim of that Galaxy -- poised and ready to pounce -- spreading babies, the picnic litter of civilization throughout the star systems. Zuliani walked from the cornfield into the Meek nursery, brushing pollen from his shoulders. As he waded among the smiling faces, distributing pats and wwds of encouragement, he reflected on their rainbow skin colors: reds, whites, browns, yellows. Outwitting the Dregs with mosaicism had been easy, for the Dregs were really a clone race -- monogenetic. Single genetic pattern and single antigenic pattern. Their cells and organs were freely interchangeable between individuals. But, because the transplanted tissue lost its donor identity in the Dregs they had no way of detecting it -- therefore they couldn't even understand the theory of human mosaicism. And therefore humanity would soon own another galaxy.  Watch for the big Fall Issue! K eir Soth lifted his eyes wearily from the tattered fragment of a book he was trying to read as he heard the gritty cycle of the airlock. He sighed and rose to his feet to stare through the left vision port at the alien landscape beyond the ship. Melok was a harsh world. Even at sunset it showed no softening of the raw desert that ran directly to the ugly brick towers of the city to Keir's right. The sky was dull with a thin overcast of dust and haze. Three miles away most of the red sun was hiddenby Superstition rests on error. Religion worships the truth. Between must lie -- confusion! the immense pyramid that was the native temple. Already there was a yellow wash of light glowing from an opening in the fane. Por Dain came into the control room to stand beside him. The scientist was older than Keir and slightly shorter but they might have been brothers from their looks. Both were normally dark of complexion and abnormally lean and sharp of features. Por Dain had removed his protective garment but sand and grit still clung to the creases around his eyes. Fatigue from the double gravity of Melok showed in the droop of his shoulders. "Five thousand light-years of searching space in this can," he muttered. "Then, less than thirty parsecs from home we find -- this. By Earth, Tm tired of all these superstitious savages and their tin god!" 'Keir Soth winced at the oath, reaching out to touch the tiny emblem that represented a hemisphere of lost Earth. He was noti tf course, superstitious. But childhood habits were hard to break. Por Dain snorted. "Can't you get it through your head there's no truth to the legend, Keir? How could any planet wrap itself in a silver haze and then just disappear -- supposedly into some mystic higher dimension -- to leave its colonies stranded? Tommyrot!" "But we found the picture of just such a happening on that world in the third quandrant," the captain protested. "A world that had been barren of human life for at least twenty thousand years," Por Dain reminded him. "Do you think our legend would have lasted that long?" Keir Soth shook his head reluctantly. There were legends of some great war in the heavens that had blasted civilizations back some fifteen hundred years -- and those were probably true. There was even evidence that Melok itself might have been the enemy world, since it had been rendered almost lethally radioactive at the same time. Its atmosphere still contained more radiation than Keir found comfortable to think of. But a legend older than twenty millennia...? And there were other puzzles. If men had been colonizing worlds so long ago, why were there no ancient and advanced worlds? Did every planet rise to spew out colonies and then die in some new holocaust of war with those colonies? Was life so stupid? L yssa the Novitiate came into the cabin then, bringing broth and platters of rations for them. She was quite typical of her kind -- blond as no other women were, slight, resembling a porcelain doll. The girls who served Earth were carefully bred to look alike. Surprisingly, For Dain made room for her on his seat. The old agnostic usually avoided her, bitter at the law forcing all ships to carry at least one Novitiate. She smiled her usual pleasant and empty smile at him as she began the evening invocation in the ancient speech. " 'F  forgethce Ozinc. , . "She did fine today," For Dain admitted when he saw Keifs questioning look. "She talked that high priest Shaggoth into letting her up by that Earth-damned tin god of theirs and she planted three pickups." She made the circle of Earth but the blasphemy didn't seem to bother her. "Shaggoth calls it the last true god," Lyssa said. She had been uncomplaining throughout the voyage. After finding the pieces of books on the ancient planet, she had even begun teaching them the ancient tongue. That had proved fortunate, since the natives of Mclok also used it for their ritual and Shaggoth spoke it enough like Lyssa's version to be understood. She'd proved helpful enough on the voyage. Besides, men needed a woman on a long trip. Why Shaggoth seemed to accept her was another puzzle about this dratted world. He had been rough enough on For and Kier, forbidding them to come within three hundred feet of his fane. And he had refused to let even the girl see his sacred books, though he made no secret of their existence. The scholars back on Homework! would give a dozen fortunes for the legends of any alien world, too! It was dark outside -- except for the red light of Mclok's four visible moons -- when For Dain finished his food and sttxd up to ti# the tricky outside receptors. The old man's hands shook with fatigue as he tuned them. Then he grunted with pleasure and surprise. He had been tinkering with the receptors for weeks -- and now at last one seemed to be working properly. It showed the inside of the temple clearly. Shaggoth was fussing about with bits of wire, making happy sounds. The high prievSt was a dark, hairy man, grotesquely short and ugly. There was something indecent about his expression and his chuckling. Then the focus cleared for depth. For the first time, the two men saw the god worshiped on Melok. "A robot!" Kier exclaimed. "A robot like the legends in the books IF from the ruined planet." Por Dain ncxlded slowly. "Looks like it. I knew it was metal -- yet how ean it be? Metal would have gone to pieces by now. It must be some kind of statue shaped of tin and made to look like the robots their legends described. These savages are worshipping a machine." event. Dust and grime had been polished from it but there was an unmistakable patina of centuries. It was vaguely manlike, though its face gained the touch of nobility without any definite features. "Maybe it is the wreck of a real robot," Por decided. "lf the ancients before the bombing here had some of our alloys -- it could be. Now there's religion for you, Kcir. A race of men blindly w'orshipping something they made for a servant." Lyssa touched the Earth emblem but her smile remained unchanged. She no longer protested Por's remarks. Instead she pointed to Shaggoth, who was blowing out the torch and turning down the gas mantles. "He's coming here," she said. In that she was right. The pickup showed him moving across the sand toward them, badly distorted but recognizable. Por had turned the gain up enough to see by the dim temple lights. He caught Kier's attention and began tracing the thing Shaggoth had been working on. It was a weirdly wired mess of coils and blocks of some kind, seemingly directed toward their ship. Por pointed out where the wires led from it and were cither stuck on the robot body or somehow plugged in. "Must be a mockup of some machine from tlie legends," Kicr guessed. "Ritual magic -- similarity principle. But docs he think some kind of god power is still generated in that creature?" "There's always power in the god," Lyssa informed them. "Shaggoth has bragged of it. He makes miracle fires with it." Any power in those batteries had been dead for millennia, Kicr realized. But a clever priest could fake something to convince his followers. "Maybe he's coming here to warn us he's making big medicine and we're in his power," Por guessed. Lyssa shook her head, her smile deepening slightly. "He's coming to sec me. He asked me today. I think he wants to be converted to the blessed lost-Eartli faith." "You're not going out. Lyssa," Kier told her sharply. "And you're not letting him in." He flipped a toggle to cut in the hull pickups. Around the ship were some fifty partly concealed figures waiting patiently, as they had wailed every # night. "That's an order. Lyssa. Stay away from the airlock until morning." She nodded faintly, then more firmly at his expression. "All right," she agreed softly, though her smile was almost gone. "Good night, then. I'll sleep now." They heard her sounds of final prayers and the faint noise of her body sinking into the hammock in her tiny room. After a while Por Da in also retired. K niR sat watching the high priest. Shaggoth reached the ship and knocked softly. Then he squatted down in the sand, motionless and patient. Kier waited but nothing else happened. And finally he released his control scat and sank onto it. The last sounds he heard were the heavy breathing of Por Dain and L.yssa's faintly adenoidal snores. A heavy hand on his shoulder shook him back to consciousness. Por Dain stood over him, scowling and swearing. "She's gone! The Earth-damned crusading little fool -- she pulled a sneak and they're all gone." Kier snapped out of his stupor. By the clock, six hours of the long Melok night had passed since he fell asleep. He saw that the outside hull pickups were on, showing no sign of the natives or of Shaggoth. "We've got to get out and rescue her," he muttered thickly, reaching for the caffein tablets. "No chance. Holy Earth, look at them!" Por Dain had turned the pickups toward the temple and the distorted one showed an enormous crowd of Melok natives streaming from the city and mounting toward their fane. Then the one good pickup caught Shaggoth as the priest moved into view. Gas jets were now casting a half-light over the temple, and the priest was again busy with his wired contraption. "Damn him," Por growled. "He isn't as ignorant as I thought. That savage is tuning a circuit, looks like. Ah!" As he spoke, the contraption seemed to come to life. A blue glow ran over the coils and turned white. It seemed to spread like a spark climbing a Jacob's ladder. Then it was a faint glow of spherical shape that stretched and grew too thin to see. Then acolytes appeared, bearing Lyssa. She was trussed firmly but seemed unharmed. She made no sound but her smile was gone. Her eyes, wide and round with fear, were centered on Shaggoth. A chanting began as the acolytes laid her on a stone block before their last true god. Shaggoth approached her, holding two wands from which wires led to the robot's body. IF K eir Soth found himself blaspheming heavily as he reached for the weapons in a drawer of the control panel. But Ror Dain held him back. "Don't be a fool, Captain. It's a bluff. He wants us to come out to rescue her. That's his whole plan. Then he'll have the ship. There must be a horde of the savages waiting below the hull where we can't pick them up." "Then we'll take the ship there." "No." Anger mingled with reluctant respect in For Dain's .expression. "I recognize that field he's generating now from the layout of parts. We've got one like it on Homeworld -- only no bigger than a pea yet at maximum. You can't get through. It would damp the engines half a mile before we reached the pyramid." No wonder the priest had refused to let them see the ancient books. He must have a technical library there -- and somehow the old faker comprehended what was in them, however little he used them for the good of his followers. Shaggoth was staring directly into the pickup, as if aware that they could see him. Now he brought the wands into contact with Lyssa's body, smiling thickly as she screamed. Keir began warming the engines. "I'll take the ship in as close as we dare," he said. "Then we get out and kill as many as we can trying to reach her." For Dain began loading the weapons as the engines warmed. Again Shaggoth brought the insulated wands against the Novitiate's body. Her muscles tensed in a wild spasm but the savage chant rose to cover any cries she made. The ship was just beginning to respond, rising sluggishly. Keir grinned thinly, hoping a horde of Melok natives were caught under that pressure field. The ship couldn't yet operate well but power was building up. Again Melok brought down the wands. And this time the chant quieted. "Help me -- " Hers was a cry that should have torn the heart from a brazen idol. "For the love of Earth, help me -- " And help came. T he robot figure moved. A metal arm swung down to tear the wires free from its body. Slowly, ponderously, the figure straightened. There was a creaking sound as the limbs moved, and dirt and scale chipped away. Then it was erect. In two strides the metal figure had caught the frozen priest and broken him like a thin stick across one knee. Shaggoth was flung back into the mob of screaming, fleeing worshippers. For a moment the robot halted. staring toward Lyssa. It sank to one knee. Shaggoth was flung gesture of some kind. A bass voice sounded over the pickup, using an oddly pure-sounding form of the ancient tongue. "Saintly One, I -- " The words cut off as the robot bent closer. Then something like a sigh came from it. It stood up quietly, moving to snap the bindings away from Lyssa's limbs. She lay limp. The metal arms reached under her to lift her. The robot turned then, facing away from the pickup for a long minute, its head up as if listening. Again there was a sigh. "The field is too strong," the even bass voice said in the ancient tongue. The figure turned, searching until it located the pickup. "I go by another way." the robot said slowly and carefully. "Your lady is safe but you who are in the ship must wait until I appear again." It turned quickly toward the throne on which it had sat. A foot reached out to kick the massive structure aside, while a hand made a pass through the air. Almost instantly, an opening appeared in what had seemed solid rock. The robot stepped into it, carrying the Novitiate, and disappeared. Immediately after it was gone the rock closed tightly. A small explosion seemed to take place inside. Keir had the ship up but now there was no place to go. "Wait until he appears where?" he asked bitterly. "Or until he can get safely hidden away witj? her in some hole in the ground?" "Try cruising slowly toward the pyramid," Por Dain suggested. "Maybe there's a secret shaft out to the bottom and he'll show up there." "He'd better." B efore the ship was in full motion, however, they saw the robot again. This time he was only a dot on their screen until Por raised the magnification of the hull pickup. He stood threQ miles from the pyramid on a narrow ledge of the most ancient of the brick structures. Lyssa was still unconscious in his arms. Somehow he had traveled that distance in less than five minutes. Now he stood staring into space, as if listening to a voice from the stars. Then his head dropped. "So long?" he asked. "Fifteen hundred years from the radiation that paralyzed my mind until the right words could waken me?" He sighed again and seemed to listen once more. He nodded slightly and turned to face the ship. From the receiver of the now useless temple pickup a softer and warmer voice spoke, using standard Homeworld speech. "Bring your IF ship close to me and open your airlock. I will leap across. And do not fear. I shall be the Watcher for Homeworld now, since these people have forfeited all right to one." Keir Soth manipulated the ship very delicately across the small distance while Por Dain went down to the airlock. It was tricky maneuvering but Keir had time enough to see a series of small explosions running like a mole's trail from the pyramid across the desert to the big brick building. Whatever secret way the robot had known was destroyed now. The metal figure leaped when the ship was fifty feet away. Keir flinched and held his breath. Then he heard the lock cycling to full space closure and the robot came into the control room, with Lyssa conscious and smiling her pleasant and empty smile beside him. Por Dain stood in the doorway as the robot glanced around at the controls. "I have brought the few books from here that you can use," the robot said, pointing to a small sack Por Dain was holding. "There is no need to wait here longer." He slipped confidently into the captain's chair, reaching for the controls. With unerring accuracy he plotted the course toward Homeworld and the ship began its gradual acceleration into the red sky and toward space. Keir Soth shook his head, benumbed by wonder. "How could Melok have lost any war if they could create robots like you?" The Watcher looked back at the three humans and his voice was soft but filled with immense pride. "I was never created on Melok," he said. "I came from Earth!" There was only the soft drone of the ship's engines as Lyssa and Keir Soth slipped to their knees, to be followed a moment later by a former agnostic, Por Dain.  Willy Ley OF #. How Long Is the Post? #News of the sudden untimely passing of Willy Ley has reached us just as we go to press. His death shocks the worlds of science and science fiction. He leaves an empty place in the hearts of his co-workers and friends, a place no other can fill -- for Willy Ley was unique. In his honor, and because of its interest and significance, we shall publish posthumously that portion of his new series with which he has supplied us. It concerns the Earth's geologic history, the emergence of life, and its fascinating evolution in multiple forms -- including man. North America was covered by glaciers. At an earlier time the central portion of the North American continent had been flooded -- with "sea serpents" in the water and "flying dragons" overhead. And before that, luxurious but strange jungles grew in Pennsylvania, leaving coal seams behind. Before that there was a time when the land was devoid of life. And once upon a time the earth did not exist. First question -- what does "once upon a time" mean in years? In plain language -- how old is the earth? who knew? For two centuries or so there was a traditional answer. Didn't it say in the margin of the Authorized Version of the Bible that the world had been created in # B.c.? Most of the people who quoted the figure knew that it had been supplied by the Irish archbishop James Ussher (#-#), however very few knew how it had been established. What the good Ussher had done was to add up the genealogies given in the Old Testament but since the statements are often not very explicit quite a number of assumptions had to be made. For that reason the Roman Catholic Church disapproved of the method. And Jews and German Lutherans said that rabbi Shemayah Hillel, a pupil of the High Rabbi Loew of Prague -- he, who is said to have made the Golem -- had done the same about a hundred years earlier and had done it better. At any rate, Ussher and the Jewish calendar do not agree. According to the Jewish calendar, it is now # years since Creation while according to Ussher it should be #. Leaving theological thinking behind we can now progress to a man who thought that it should be possible to calculate the age of the earth. He was a French count who was in addition an excellent mathematician, who had translated the works of Sir Isaac Newton into French and who was also an all-around naturalist, usually referred to as Buffon. His full name was Georges Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon and he lived from # to #. His reasoning was that the earth must have been a part of the sun at some time and after it had been split off the sun (by a glancing blow of a large comet, he thought) it naturally was hot. Now it was no longer hot, at least not at the surface. How long would it take a sphere of metals and rocks the size of the earth to cool off from "very hot" to the present temperature? To find the answer he ordered a number of spheres made. They were all of the same size but of different materials -- iron, brass, copper and various kinds of rocks. Next he had a number of wire holders prepared. The spheres rested in these, making minimum contact with anything but the atmosphere. After that he had a blacksmith heat all these spheres in his furnace, with orders to run the furnace as hot as he possibly could. When the spheres were hot they were placed in the wireholders and Buffon sat, watch in hand and waited for them to cool off. Every once in a while he would touch them, first with a gloved hand, then, when it seemed safe, with his fingers. Each time he wrote down how many minutes had elapsed. The most important times were when his fingers could just stand the heat of the spheres and when he could not longer perceive a difference between the temperatures of the spheres and the temperature in the room. Then he started calculating, trying to apply the cooling times he had found to a ball of rock the size of the earth. He found that the whole cooling period would amount to # years for the earth. About # years ago the earth had cooled off enough to be touched and Buffon assumed that life had appeared about then. Any high school physics student of today can think of a number of flaws in the experiment. For example any temperature which did not even melt the metals obviously was not high enough. And the spheres were cooled by both radiation and convection, while a hot planet in space would cool off by radiation alone. But Buffon's experiment had its value as an attempt at actually measuring the age of the earth. And at least it showed that that age had to be expressed in tens of thousands of years. T he next attempt to calculate the age of the earth was not made until #. Geologists had been busy in the meantime. Austria, France, Germany and Russia had their share of geologists during the early part of the nineteenth century but England and especially Scotland provided an unusually high number. Many of the latter were amateurs in the sense that they did not get paid for their geological explorations. But they were good amateurs. More by coincidence than for any other reason, many were churchmen. They first established that some layers of rock were older than others. The rocks of Wales seemed to be especially old and came to be referred to as Cambrian, for Cambria is the Latin name of Wales. The famous chalk cliffs were indubitably younger than the rocks of Wales but older than certain layers of sandstone. A nice, simple theory was promulgated: the Primary Period was examplified by the Cambrian, the Secondary Period by the chalk cliffs. The Tertiary Period was the time during which these sandstone layers had formed. Unfortunately the simple theory did not hold up for long. There was coal. Lots of coal -- its formation must have covered a period of its own. Next some German geologists said that the Jura mountains of southwest Germany and Switzerland did not fit into the basic scheme -- the theory had to be revamped, especially after Jurassic formations had been discovered in England, too. By a happy coincidence the IF new scheme held six geological periods and, of course, the amateur geologists -- remember that quite a considerable number of them were clergymen -- thought this a fine agreement with the "days of creation" of Genesis. The new scheme looked as follows: #. Laurentian Period -- by definition the oldest #. Cambrian Period -- now the second oldest #. Carboniferous Period -- the time when the coal seams had been formed; the name comes from carbo, Latin for "coal" #. Jurassic Period -- after some discussion conceded to be older than the chalk cliffs #. Cretaceous Period -- the time the chalk cliffs were formed; the name comes from creta, Latin for "chalk" #. Tertiary Period -- the youngest of all, which kept its name even though it did not make any sense any more Not much later the Russians started publishing papers that showed that the rocks in the Russian District of Perm did not fit into the scheme since these Permian rocks seemed to be older than the German Jurassic rocks but probably were not old enough to belong to the Carboniferous Period. Whether there had been six or seven or even more geological periods was a minor question by comparison to problem of how long it took for these periods to follow each other. Nobody mentioned the # B.c. date anymore except in some rural areas where few people read and knowledge was word of mouth from generation to generation. But how much time had truly elapsed? The German physicist Hermann von Helmholtz (#-#) had established an upper limit based on the "fused" theory of the origin of the solar system by Immanuel Kant (#-#) and Pierre Simon, Marquis de Laplace (#). Their ingenious theory assumed that the solar system had really begun as a diffuse cloud of cosmic dust and gases. This cosmic cloud was to contract slowly by the mutual gravitational attraction of the gas molecules and particles. As it contracted it grew hot, especially the central condensation that was to become the sun. The rapidly rotating sun was then supposed to have produced the planets one by one, by throwing off a ring of matter that had formed around its equator because of the fast rotation. The whole idea was discarded later but when von Helmholtz did his work no doubts had yet been uttered. Hermann von Helmholtz approached the problem as systematically as possible. The sun shone and threw vast amounts of energy into space every moment. That energy had to come from somewhere and the only source Helmholtz could think off was contraction -- a major part of the theory. This continued contraction because of the mutual attraction of the molecules meant that the sun was gaining density at every moment. Calculation said the sun would have contracted as much as it possibly could. Then it would radiate its heat away into space and would stop shining. But the geologists were not so years of sunshine to come -- they wanted to know what had gone before. In the past the sun had been less dense and had, therefore, taken up a larger volume of space. Considering the rate of shrinkage that von Helmholtz had already calculated, the diameter of the sun must have been # miles is the diameter of the earth's orbit. This meant that the earth could not possibly be older than to be younger -- how much younger remained to be seen. By I # the geologists had nine geological periods on their lists but their estimates of the duration of these periods were mainly guesswork. They had two clues. One of which was evolution -- pretty generally accepted by then -- while the other was "rate of sedimentation." All one could say definitely about evolution was that it must have taken a long time. Nobody could tell at what rate evolution progressed and it was doubtful even then that the rate was consistent. We now know that at some times in the geological past evolution proceeded at a surprisingly fast rate, while there seem to have been long periods during which the picture did not change much. Nor was the rate of sedimentation more helpful. Of course one could observe how much sand and mud a given river would deposit in a bay per year. One could establish how much of the yearly total had been deposited in late spring and how little in winter. Then, having found that the average was half an inch per year one could be quite close to the truth if one assumed that the half inch of sand and mud would make a layer of sandstone slightly less than a tenth of an inch in thickness by being compressed into stone. And it was then a question of elementary arithmetic to calculate how many years had been needed to deposit a #-foot thickness of a sandstone layer. Unfortunately different rivers perform at different rates, depending on the rate of flow of the river as it fought its way to the sea -- and also on the material along the course of IP the river. Estimates of how much time was required to form a given deposit were simply estimates. Moreover, if an area had been flooded and sediments had formed and it subsequently became dry land -- only to be flooded again after some time, the number of years for that "some time" were not even an estimate but just a guess. Small wonder that different books by different and respected experts gave figures for the same phenomenon that had nothing in common, except for the fact that they represented vast ages compared to the human life span. Some time ago  found a beautiful example, two estimates of the age of the black slate in which a fossil reptile (Ichthyosaurus) occurs. It had been found off the British coast (Isle of Wight) and, in much larger quantity, in southwest Germany. One estimate and the other was five or six estimates had been about the British deposits and the other about the German deposits one might consider that the different localities somehow played a role. But both estimates referred to the German deposits in Swabia. P eople who were not geologists regarded even these figures with a mixture of alarm and contempt. A teacher of mine often related the story that he had taken a course in ancient history at the University of Heidelberg during the last decade of the nineteenth century. The historian had told his students that chronology was fine back to early Greece, say # B.c. Of course Egypt, Assyria and Babylonia were older, though one could not say by how much. "All in all," my teacher quoted him as saying, "history will add up to about # years and that is what we do now. Now if you should ask a geologist you'll hear has nothing to do with science any more." And at that time geologists were timid indeed. The total duration of all geological periods, they said, might add up to ten Interestingly enough, t h e discoveries that were to provide the answer were just being made at the time when my teacher's history professor made his remarks about the "unscientific" behavior of the geologists. The discoveries were the ones that showed that an atom was not an indestructible and eternal supertiny sphere of matter but something that had a structure, too. One day in #I at McGill University in Montreal, Canada, a discussion look place that has been partly preserved. The two men involved were Sir Ernest Rutherford (#-#) and Frederick Soddy (#-#), who was a graduate of Oxford and had just joined forces with Rutherford. They studied the long-known element thorium which gave off what was then called "emanation." First they found that that "emanation" did not come from thorium but from something else they called thorium-X. Then Soddy found that the emanation was a gas like argon -- actually it was the radioactive gas radon which had not yet been discovered -- and when he felt sure of the facts he said: "Rutherford, this is transmutation -- the thorium is disintegrating and turning itself into an argon gas." Rutherford did not doubt the facts either, but answered: "For Mike's sake, Soddy, don't call it transmutation! They'll have our heads off as alchemists." So in their publication they spoke of "sub-atomic chemical change." An American, Bertram Borden Boltwood (#-#) believed Rutherford and Soddy and after a year or so of work announced that the parent substance seemed to be uranium. Uranium became radium after an intermediate stage and radium, going through several other stages, finally became lead, which is no longer radioactive, it must be remarked here that all the early descriptions are somewhat vague and full of names one can't find in a handbook any more, because the concept of an isotope was still in the future. Isotopes are different versions of the same element that are chemically the same -- but their atoms have slightly different weights. Since this idea had not yet occurred to anybody the early researchers believed each time when they had discovered a new isotope that they had discovered a new element. After Soddy had left Rutherford the latter acquired a new assistant: Otto Hahn (#), who was also interested in thorium and had discovered something which he called "radiothorium." In Canada he discovered "meso-thorium" which then turned out to be a mixture of meso-thorium I and mesothorium #. (Actually they all were just various thorium isotopes.) Hahn thought that there was in addition a second line of "natural transmutation," beginning with thorium and also ending up as lead. Though he was an accomplished chemist he did not succeed in detecting any difference but still thought it prudent to speak of "radium-lead" and "thorium-lead." not know about isotopes the very important concept of "halflife" had been evolved. Radioactive elements changed into other elements and that took time. But MO IF one could not speak about the "life-time" of a radio-active element, for that would depend on the amount you had. A large sample naturally lasted longer than a small sample. However, one could, regardless of the size of the sample, say that after so and so much time half of it would have changed into something else -- hence half-life. It was found fairly fast that there was no way of influencing the half-life of a naturally radio-active element. It was also found that the half-lives of different elements were of different lengths. A few samples (modern figures) must be given here to show how it works. Element no. #, astatine, of atomic weight #, has a half-life of # hours and # minutes. Element no. #, actinium, of atomic weight #, has a half-life of # years. Element no. #, polonium, of atomic weight #, has a half-life of # years and element no. #, radium, of atomic weight #, has a halflife of # years. These short half-lives could be established after a few days, or months, of observation -- I should add here that astatine was not yet known. But when it came to uranium of atomic weight # things were difficult -- we now know that its half-life is # apparent that the half-life of uranium had to be expressed in age of the earth had been found. Look for uranium-bearing rocks. Check the percentage of uranium, then check on the percentages of other elements that are the "descendants" of uranium, mainly lead. And you know how old these rocks arc. Early figures which we know now to be too small were that way because at the time the half-life of uranium had still been underestimated. And that is why we know that those famous ichthyosaurs of Coal turned out to be about # cliffs could boast an age of only In the meantime the geologists had rewritten their table of periods, going by their own evidence -- the atomic scientists only added the proper age figures. The whole history of the earth, beginning with the first clear fossils, was subdivided into three eras. There was the Paleozoic Era comprising six geologic periods, named Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Denovian, Lower Carboniferous (Mississipian in the U.S.A.), Upper Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian in the U.S.A.) Permian. Then followed the Mesozoic years ago and lasting for #-# Ihree geologic periods: Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous. The newest is the Cenozoic Era It is equivalent to the old Tertiary period which still bears that name and which has been divided into half a dozen sub-periods called Paleocene, Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene and Pliocene. Then came otherwise known as the Jee Age which ended I I ,# years ago. And the second half of that small remainder is what is called "history." T said a while ago that the geologists wrote their own table and that the atomic scientists only added figures. That is correct for the periods since the time of the earliest fossils. Where the atomic scientists did add something was at the front end, so to speak. Everything older than the Cambrian period was logically called the Pre-Cambrian and its duration could not be guessed until dating by radioactivity proclaimed that some rocks had to be more than The Pre-Cambrian was then split into Lower and Upper PreCambrian and a duration of # each. Subsequently this was inmore" so that the beginning of the Lower Pre-Cambrian is now years in the past. By that time the earth was fully formed, with a solid surface, with and with an atmosphere. That atmosphere would not be to our liking -- in fact it would kill us in about a minute -- but it was an atmosphere. How long it took for the earth to be formed by accretion of cosmic dust and gas is unknown, though the process is estimated to have taken around # is that at some time during the Pre-Cambrian life originated.  United States. Anywhere else beginning necessary. There are enough international misunderstandings as it is. F or the past year one of the loudest literary controversies of science fiction has centered around a new novel by Norman Spinrad -- one often encouraged by vigorous diatribes from Spinrad. Each step in its history was treated as a major disaster or triumph. The publisher who had contracted for the book rejected it upon its completion. Nobody wanted it until it was finally serialized in the British New Worlds, where the postal service tried to suppress it. After that, naturally, the American publishers began bidding for it. Spinrad held out for a contract that would guarantee to preserve every word exactly as he wrote it. Then at last we learned that art had triumphed; a contract was signed. Now it is out in both soft-cover and hard-bound editions: Bug Jack Barron by Norman Spinrad (Avon, #; Walker and Co., #). Now you can read it for yourself and you can determine whether -- according to the Avon jacket copy -- it should be damned as "depraved" or hailed as a work of genius. Tf you do, you may wonder what all the shouting was about. Don't expect to be shocked if you've been reading many of the current best-sellers. Compared to Harold Robbins' Carpetbaggers, this will seem pretty tame. Aside from a heavy sprinkling of four(Continued on page #) ficer for New Woodstock, a small mobile artists colony of trailers that is heading through Mexico toward South America, Many ko' people live in such towns now, most living off their Negative Income Tax from the Welfare State, or Meritocracy, Bat feels he doesnt have enough merit for better work, since an Army test set his l.Q, at only # . Not all are poor, however. chance to practice after his forced I acts as mayor and is rich enough to keep a secretary named NAhis wife. They stop for the night outside Linares, where they sense surprising hostility. In a local bar they are forced into a fight. Bat escapes unhurt, but Fred develops a sudden severe headache. Then Bat is forced to fight unreconstructed type of old-time  southerner,' challenges Fred be cause the writer has been pretty and talented young artist. Jeffs biggest complaint is that Fred is a Negro and has no right to compete with him for Diana's favors. Bat reports to the town council. stressing the rising hostility jrorn the local Mexicans. Then he takes ojf in his official car on a scouting trip to examine their route. On the way, he is stopped by an armed young Mexican who gives his and blindfolded. He is taken to a place where someone named a polished gentleman, threatens like a wild bandit. Don Caesar tells Bat that Mexico is being ruined by the relatively rich 'Gringo" tourists who come in their mobile towns and turn the Mexican people into nothing but mendicants. Don Caesar heads a group sworn to stop this. If New Woodstock does not turn back to the United States, the town will be ambushed and everyone in it will be killed. Bat is permitted to leave, but his gun and all-purpose phone are not returned to him. He goes back to report to the Town Council. Later, while they are discussing their best course, he finds his possessions returned to his car. The Town Council calls a general meeting to decide what to do. And Bat starts to tell his story. But Jeff Smith interrupts to question whether there is anything to worry them. He points to Bat and ridicules the story of the threats. 'It's all a damned lie," he claims. VI T here was another moment of shocked silence and then a muttering, then a jabbering. Dean Armanruder rapped them to silence. He looked at Jeff Smith, still standing, a defiant smirk on his face. The senior executive committee member said evenly, "Mr. Smith, you have either said too much or too little. Will you please elucidate?" Jeff Smith was eager to do so. "For the first part of the story we have only the word of Hardin and Zogbaum -- from whom we haven't as yet heard, though I assume he'll back his fellow barroom brawler. They say they went into town and that the Mexicans started a fight. That's what they say. Evidently, the Linares chief of police sees it otherwise. The second part of the story has nothing to back it whatsoever. Mexico is a civilized country. Armed vigilantes don't attack peaceful tourists. What Hardin's purpose is, I wouldn't know. For some reason he evidently doesn't want to see New Woodstock continue to our destination, South America. He wants to turn back. Possibly he's afraid of the long trip ahead and would rather remain in the States where life is admittedly easier, especially for the town's peace officer." The assembly buzzed again and Armanruder rapped for silence. He looked at Bat Hardin and said, "Do you have anything to say to this, Mr. Hardin?" "No," Bat said. Armanruder looked back at Jeff Smith. "And what is your proposal, Mr. Smith?" "I propose, first, that we go IF on, as planned. And secondly that we depose this alarmist and elect a new police officer. I make it a motion." There was silence for a moment. Finally, Jim Blake said, "For the sake of bringing it to the vote, I #I second that motion. And Fll also vote for Bat Hardin being retained." Armanruder said, "Motion has been moved and seconded. Bat Hardin to be dismissed as police officer of New Woodstock. Miss Paskov, are you tied into the computer for voting?" "Yes, sir." D ean Armanruder looked at the assembly. "To simplify, if there is no objection, cast your vote for either Mr. Smith or Mr. Hardin." There was little hesitation. Each member of the assembly put his pocket phone to his mouth and cast his vote. Nadine Paskov said dryly, "There were two votes for Mr. Smith." A laugh tittered through the assembly. Jeff Smith flushed angrily and sat down. Bat Hardin, obviously, was gratified. He also wondered vaguely who had cast the second vote in favor of Smith, who had obviously voted for himself. Armanruder was saying, "We have all, except two, evidently accepted the truthfulness of Mr. Hardin's story, that he was kidnapped and the town threatened. How large an element has threatened us, we cannot say, but a threat has been made. Further comments before we put to a vote whether or not we retreat?" mission to speak. He said, "It is all very well to be gung ho, to wish to press on into adventure. However, when my wife -- who is already quite ill -- and I voted to take this trip with the rest of the town, we did not expect to be bitten by snakes in Nicaragua, or buried by a landslide in Costa Rica, or..." His elderly voice went sarcastic. "... or even attacked by head-hunting Indians in Ecuador. We had been of the opinion that with the advent of the Pan American Highway it was quite possible these days to travel all the way to our destination in reasonable comfort and safety. However, if on our first day we are threatened by a body of armed men, then I think we have stuck our necks into something more than we had originally planned. I strongly urge that we turn back as a town. If you others vote to go on, then I, at least, will now disassociate myself from New Woodstock and return to the States to take up residence in some other mobile town or city." There were others. They spoke in varying degrees of heat, indignation or fearfulness, some taking one side, some the other. When it was finally put to the vote, four-fifths of the assembly were for going on. The remainder refused to accept the decision of the majority and decided to return in a body to Texas. The returnees numbered approximately one hundred of the mobile homes, largely those owned by the more elderly and by those not really involved in the arts themselves but more or less hangers-on of the art colony. T he question then became what to do with the community property such as the auxiliary vehicles and the town treasury, which was not overly large. The treasury was accumulated by a slight tax on all citizens of the town, or a community assessment if an emergency of more than usual magnitude developed. Since the vote had gone so strongly for the element that wished to go on, it was decided that all auxiliaries remain with New Woodstock and that those who were returning be recompensed out of town funds for their share of what they left behind. And the question then became, where were these funds to come from, since the treasury held no such amount? This was solved by several of the more affluent town members such as Armanruder, Doctor Barnes and Jim Blake making a loan to the town which would be repaid as tax money came in. A small levy was also to be made, small enough not to be a strain even on citizens who existed solely on their Negative Income Tax, to help in the transaction. Still another problem arose. Among those who were to return was the middle-aged Barbara Stevens, the competent nurse of Doc Barnes. He had two or three other practical nurses in the town, on whom he could call in emergency, but Miss Stevens was the only professional. In all, the meeting of the assembly took several hours and Bat Hardin could see that they wouldn't be getting away that day. He didn't like it. He didn't like giving the vigilantes under Don Caesar the extra time to consolidate their forces and to prepare for whatever trouble they had in mind for New Woodstock. 'However, there was nothing for it. Even aher the assembly had adjourned, there was considerable to be completed in the breakaway of the hundred mobile homes that had decided to return to the States. Bat headed in the direction of Sam Prager's home and repair shop. He discovered Sam seated, sprawled rather, before his vehicles, in the same folding chair he had occupied at the assembly shortly before. He was scowling in thought. Bat said, "Having second thoughts about going on?" The other stirred. "No, not really. But I must say, I didn't expect to run into a hassle such as this so early in the game." "Nor did I," Bat admitted. "I didn't know you were a Canadian, Sam -- till you mentioned it." "No particular reason to lean IF on the fact. There's precious little difference between a Canadian such as myself and a Yankee such as you." Bat had to laugh. "Calling me a Yankee is on the side of stretching a point I'm getting called just about everything today, starting with Gringo this morning. But I'm somewhat surprised you're not with one of the Canadian mobile towns." Sam shrugged. "Easier to get work in a Yank town. Not many of you have to work. You have Negative Income Tax. We haven't come to that yet in Canada. Knock on wood." Bat looked at him. "You don't "Nope. Makes bums of people. Man was created to make his bread by the sweat of his brow." Bat nodded. "I think you're right. A man should work. Which brings us to the point. Did you finish repairing my phone?" S AM stood up and turned toward the door of his combined home and shop. "Yeah. I had to put in an entire new unit. Bat. You going to pay for it, or should I bill the town?" "Just to speed things up, I'll pay you. I'll take the bill to Armanruder later." Bat Hardin followed the electronic repairman into his shop. Sam Prager had a licensed credit exchanger attached to his TV phone screen by reason of his trade. Bat Hardin put his pocket phone cum credit card on the screen and his thumbprint on the square at the screen's side and looked at Sam. Sam said, "That'll be twentythree dollars and fifty cents." Bat said into the screen, "Please credit to Sam Prager twenty-three dollars and fifty cents from my balance." The screen said, "Transaction completed." Bat took up his phone and returned it to his pocket. He said to Sam, "Do you have a gun?" Sam said, "Well, yes. A carbine. I thought we'd possibly be running into deer country, wild pig and that sort of thing down in Central and South America." "Does Edith drive?" "Sure." "I suggest that when we take off, you let her drive and you sit next to her with the carbine." Sam hissed a low whistle. "You really expect trouble, don't you Bat?" Bat didn't want to overly alarm the town. He said, "Not necessarily, but there's no harm in being ready. If anybody does take a shot at us, I'd like to see an immediate response big enough to set them back on their heels." Bat started in the direction of Dean Armanruder's home, thinking about it. The instructions he had just given Sam Prager had come to him on the spur of the moment but the more he considered it, the more he liked the idea. A rmanruder was standing before his mobile mansion talkiflg to Doc Barnes. Bat came forward and said to Armanruder and the other member of the executive committee, "I think it might be a good idea if you'd give me carte blanche on organizing the line of march tomorrow." "How's that, Hardin?" the former magnate said. "Well, I've got a double motive. First, I think common sense dictates that we take off from Linares as ready for trouble as we can be, even though it may not materialize. We want no stragglers, for one thing. I'm of the opinion that if a mobile home breaks down between here and the Pan American Highway, which should be safe, it should be abandoned and its inhabitants taken up to go on with us." Doc Barnes said slowly, "I doubt if many of our people would simply leave their homes right next to the highway, Bat." Bat looked at him. "Doc, I feel so strongly that nobody should be left behind that I suggest that if it becomes necessary to abandon one of our homes, or even more, that the owners be recompensed out of New Woodstock town funds." Dean Armanruder puffed his cheeks. "That becomes quite a drain on the treasury, Hardin. And it's already bare as a result of having to pay off the hundred homes that are turning back for their share of community property.' Bat said doggedly, "Under the circumstances, we can't let anyone fall behind. Our best chance is to push on as fast as possible. If we stopped, up there in the hills, we'd be sitting ducks for any snipers, or whatever." "Ummm. And you said you had a double motive?" "Sir, usually when a mobile town moves, it proceeds more or less haphazardly. Sometimes, units lag behind for days. All right, I think that tomorrow New Woodstock should move in close order. Women driving, those men who possess guns sitting next to them, ready for action. I think, we should drive almost bumper to bumper, looking for any trouble and damn ready for it if it materializes." Doc Barnes muttered, "Sounds like a confounded military convoy." Bat said softly, "It is." Dean Armanruder was thinking about it. Bat said, "I'd like to put this on the community phone. You see, I suspect we have a leak. Ordinarily, our community phone wouldn't be tapped by outsiders. But I suspect that anything that goes over it is forwarded to Don Caesar, or whoever. If so, then they'll pick up this move of ours and perhaps our very readiness will dissuade them." Armanruder was quite obviously taken aback. "A leak? What in the world do you mean by that?" "I mean that Don Caesar's men were tipped off that I was coming up that road this morning. On top of that, my pocket phone was taken from me by the kidnappers IF but was sitting on my table when j returned. I doubt if a complete stranger to New Woodstock could have done it. He wouldn't have known where my home was and he would have been spotted wandering through the town, even if he did know." A rmanruder said, "All right, all right. You're the police officer. So far as I am concerned, you can make any arrangement you wish pertaining to our socalled order of march tomorrow. Go into my office, if you wish, and use the desk phone there. You'll be more comfortable," Bat nodded, and said, "One other thing. I suggest we make all preliminary arrangements for leaving tonight and that we roll at the first flush of dawn. These people confronting us -- if they're confronting us -- are not professional military. I doubt if they are very well organized. Civilians lack discipline. We might catch them unawares and be completely through the mountains while they're still comfortably in bed." "Well, that sounds reasonable," Armanruder admitted. "Notify the town to that effect, Hardin." Bat shook his head. "No. That wouldn't do. We'll have to pass that on by word of mouth, not put It on the air. That might tip them off, if they have some way of tapping our communications," "How about this leak of ydufs?" Doc Barnes demanded. "JF there is such a traitor among us, he'll let them know." Bat nodded again. "Of course. And, if so, then we'll know we've got a traitor and not just suspect it." "You handle it, Hardin," Armanruder said. Bat trudged to the major entrance of the Armanruder home and found the door open. He entered and headed for the office. Nadine Paskov, in mini-shorts, but otherwise no advertisement for expansion of the textile industry, met him in the hall. Suddenly, she put a hand on his arm. "Bat, is there really danger?" He said carefully, "There probably isn't but the safe thing is to go ahead as though there is. The better prepared we are, the less danger there is." "Do you think these people actucilly might shoot at us?" Bat said carefully, "They might but I'm not really expecting it. We just want to tread carefully, Miss Paskov." "Look, Bat, do you think I should go back with the others to Texas?" He cocked his head slightly to one side. "Why didn't you?" She took a breath. "It's the best job I could ever get." if you couldn't get another." subsistence level income!" He said, "Well, it's your decision, Miss Paskov. You can go back with the others, or on with us." She said urgently, "Bt, you don't understaild. He's written me info his will. I can't quit. But... B at couldn't think of anything to say to that. He sidestepped her and continued on to the office. He sat down at Armanruder's desk and activated the TV phone and said into the screen, "New Woodstock, General Call." And then: "Please hear this. This is Bat Hardin, your town police officer. With the concurrence of Mr. Armanruder, I strongly make the following suggestions. That all of us who are armed, ride with our weapons at hand. Women should drive, when possible. If fired upon en route, return as heavy a barrage as possible. Even if you do not see an immediate target, fire in the direction from which the attack came. I want as large a display of fire power as we can muster. Even if you have a weapon of no larger caliber than a twentytwo, have it at hand. If you have only a shotgun, load it with as heavy a load as you have, either slugs or buckshot would be best. If you do not have a weapon, try to borrow one from those among us who have more than one. We shall proceed with several of our younger single men in the lead vehicles. If we run into a roadblock, it shall be their duty to clear it, even under fire. We'll want volunteers for the lead vehicles. Please contact me. When we move, it will be bumper to bumper and no stragglers will be allowed. In case of breakdown, the mobile home involved. must be abandoned and its occupants taken up by its neighbors. We'll try to send mechanics back for it from the next Mexican city which has suitable garages. If the house is destroyed, the owner will later be recompensed from the town treasury. If there are any questions, please consult either me or Mr. Armanruder." He sat there for a moment, thinking out further plans, then came to his feet and left. He didn't see Nadine Paskov on his way out which was all right with him. He hated to have someone as nervous as she in the convoy. Fear is contagious. They needed to keep their cool, especially if they actually did run into grief. He walked over to Al Castro's house and found his deputy talking to Luke Robertson, standing in front of the mobile home. They cut short their conversation at his approach. He gave them a quick rundown on his plans and they nodded agreement. Bat said to Al Castro, "I'm going to let you take my usual place in the column. I'll preceed the town by about two kilometers. We'll be tuned into each other all the time. You do the same as everyone else, that is, let Pamela drive and you have your Gyro-jet pistol ready in your hand. Keep in continual touch with both me and Luke, here. Luke, you bring up the rear. Have young Tom Benton riding with you. My phone and Al's will be continually open to you -- we'll be, on a three-way hookup." They were both nodding. H e bit his heavy lower lip and hesitated before adding, IF "Boys, once we're under way, ignore anything from Mr. Armanruder or anybody else of the executive committee, until we get to the Pan American Highway. Once on the move, wc are in command. There's no democracy in combat. If anytlung happens to me, you take over, Al." He told them to spread the word about the early departure time. Bat turned and headed for the nearby camper of Ferd Zogbaum. However, on the way he passed the mobile home of Diana Sward and found Ferd there idly talking with the feminine artist who was cleaning paint brushes. They gave him the standard friendly greeting and he explained the plans for the following morning to them. He turned to Ferd and said, "Ferd, you're cool when the bets are all down. I'd like you to take second place in the column behind Al Castro. If they hit us... Ferd said, "I don't have a gun. Bat." "Oh." Bat Hardin rubbed the side of his face. "Well, there are a lot of homes in New Woodstock with more than one. Some of our people are hunting buffs. Seek one out and..." Ferd Zogbaum's lips were white. "I'm not allowed to carry a gun." Bat looked at him. Ferd said, "I'm a felon. Bat." # a what." Diana Sward Jy blurted. He looked at her emptily. "I'm a paroled convict, Diana," The three of them held a long silence. Ferd sucked in air and made a face. "You still don't understand. I can't carry a gun. You see. I've got a bug planted in my skull." That made no sense to either Di or Bat. Ferd said, "I mean an electronic bug. Everything I say is monitored. If I have a gun, or if I get into violence, I get a splitting headache and have to report immediately to my parole officer -- by TV phone, of course." "Holy smokes," Bat said in protest. "It's better than being in a prison cell. Bat. There have been some changes of recent years in penology that a lot of people don't know about. Today, most convicted offenders are not kept in prison. Even lifers, such as myself." "Life?" Di said. "Yes. I'm a three-time loser, Di. For the rest of my life Til carry this bug. If I have a gun in my possession, or if I participate in violence, my head aches unbearably until I report. They have a continual cross on me, always know exactly where I am. They don't even care if I leave the country. If they wanted, they could drop me in my tracks, any place in the world. But at least I can carry on a reasonably normal life. It's notlike the old days. Of course, if I wish to do certain things, take a job, or get married, for instance, I have to report in. Then my parole officer decides if I can do it or not. A woman is warned that Tm a felon, a boss is also so informed." He added, wryly, "Few women wish to marry a felon, and few bosses want one to work for him. However, weVe Bat said, uncomfortably, "What are you...well, what were you sentenced for, Fcrd?" Ferd, his lips white again, said, "Are you asking me as a police officer?" "Don't be an ass," Di said. Bat said, "Of course not. As a friend." "You have to ask me as a police officer, so I can explain later to my parole officer." "What in the hell are you talking about?" Ferd sucked in air. This was hard for him. "Everything I say is monitored. If I use certain words the computers report it to my parole officer and I have to have an explanation." "All right," Bat said. "As town police officer, I ask, what were you given life for, Ferd?" "Conspiracy to commit subversive acts against the government." , They both stared at him. He shrugged. "You asked me. I told you. Shortly, I'll get a headache and have to report to my parole officer. They caught me three times. I was easy to catch. Anybody's easy to catch these days when you can't exist without a credit card and when the computer data banks know everything about you that there is to know." He clasped his hands suddenly to his head. "Damn it! It's starting," he muttered in agony. "I'll have to go." Bat Hardin took off in his police car. He wasn't pulling his mobile home. He had left it for Ferd Zogbaum to draw behind his camper. It would slow Ferd down but he'd be able to manage. Bat and his deputies had been lining the town up for the past two hours and it was as ready to roll as it would ever be. There had been a great buzz of excitement but for some reason everybody had tended to speak in whispers. He had both Al Castro and Luke Robertson on his car phone, the screen split so that both of their faces could be there at once. He passed Linares. The town was dead at this hour of the morning. When he was two kilometers along the road he looked at Al Castro and said, "Okay, Al, let her roll." They had agreed to attempt to keep at a one-hundred-kilometcrsan-hour clip, if possible, and Bat Hardin remained at that speed. Light was coming on fast now and his head was continually in motion, peering to the right of the road, to the left, continually checking his rear-vision mirrors. He kept in continual communication with Al Castro and Luke Robertson, checking their JF speeds. Everything was going fine. All during the night, the town's mechanics had worked on the engines of any electro-steamers that were suspect of possible breakdown. Thus far, all was tight, no stragglers. At almost the exact spot where he had been halted the morning before, he came to a sudden halt. Leaning nonchalantly against a lone mesquite tree by the side of the road was the one they had called Jose. He seemed to be alone, nor was there any cover in the immediate vicinity which might have held others. Bat said into the phone screen, "Al." "Yeah." "Slow down to about twentyfive. One of the jokers who picked me up yesterday is here." "Okay." His Gyro-jet carbine, which fired the very same #mm rocket shell as the pistol which had been appropriated yesterday, was on the seat beside him but he left it there. The other had no weapon -- in hand, at least. Bat got out of the car and approached. Jose stood erect and looked at him scornfully. "So, Gringo, you didn't bother to listen to our warning." Bat said, "Some did. About a hundred of our homes turned back." "It isn't enough. This is your last warning. Gringo. Turn back now and return to Texas or what will happen is your own fault." Bat shook his head. "We have permission from the Mexican authorities to enter and travel through Mexico." He added, "As you know, there are women and children and elderly people in this town." "We did not ask them to come to our country," the other said flatly. "They too contribute to the corruption that you Gringos bring wherever you go." B at Hardin, in a quick flow of motion, stepped closer and drove his left fist into the other's stomach. Jose, his eyes popping in agony, folded forward and Bat slugged him brutally in the jaw. The Mexican collapsed to the ground. Bat reached down and frisked him. The other was out cold. Bat Hardin grunted satisfaction as he retrieved the Gyro-jet pistol which had been taken from him by the other the previous morning. He stuck it in his belt and returned to his car. He said into the car phone, "Okay, Al, back to full speed. Ignore the seeming corpse at the side of the road, if he's still there when you go by. He's just unconscious." They rolled on past the tiny town of Iturbide, also still asleep, only one or two sleepily shuffling locals on the streets. Bat was doubly alert now and unconsciously chewing away at his lip. He said to Al and Luke, "That fellow knew we were coming." Luke said, "How could he have, Bat?" "Somebody told him." There was no answer to that. They were getting out of the mountains now, and Bat Hardin felt moderately happier. He hadn't liked being caught in the canyons, mountain crags to both sides that could have sheltered snipers. For that matter, an enemy who was knowledgeable about dynamite could have, with a comparatively small charge, set off an avalanche that might have buried a score of homes. And he might have done it in such a manner that the police would have had their work cut out finding evidence that the landslide had not been an act of God. It was only forty-five kilometers to San Roberto and Bat realized that they were going to make it to the Pan American Highway without difficulty. If there was going to be an attack, it would already have taken place. The best spots for an ambush were all behind them. Don Caesar's vigilantes simply had failed to materialize. It had been a bluff. A well acted out bluff, but a bluff. However, Bat didn't like it. Somethiqg didn't ring true. He had no doubt about the sincerity of Don Caesar, Jose and the others. They desperately wished to end the flood of mobile towns that were inundating their country. But what possibly could have been accomplished by the phony threat? Of course, a hundred homes had turned back but that wasn't a drop in#he bucket. The vigilantes had achievedvirtually nothing to end. the flow of more than . twenty towns and cities a day coming over the border. He put it from his mind. of Route E-# and entered the wide Pan American Highway at the town of San Roberto. Without halting, Bat Hardin turned left and headed south. He had, thus far, continued to remain a full two kilometers before the convoy but now he dropped speed until Al Castro caught up with him. Bat said into the phone screen, "Okay, we can relax a bit now. However, still no stragglers. I want to put as much distance between us and Linares as we can." 'Righto," Al yawned. "I didn't really expect anything to happen anyway. We have something like four hundred men with guns in this town. You'd need a small army to take us." Bat said, "The precautions didn't hurt us any." He flicked Al and Luke off his phone screen and dialed a road map of this vicinity and checked if. The Pan American Highway at this point wasn't automated so they'd have to remain on manual controls. That was all right with him. He flicked the map off and said, "New . Woodstock, Dean Ar raanruder." Armanruder's face faded m. He was evidently sitting next' to Nadine Paskov in his swank electrosteamer which drew one section of his mobile mansion. Bat knew that usually Manuel Chavez drove the other section and that his wife. Concha, drove the smaller mobile IF home which was the living quarlisted as having several sites. You tens of the two servants. could call ahead, to be sure, for Dean Armanruder said testily, reservations for our town." "See here, Hardin, the past hun"How far is it?" dred kilometers and more I've "Three hundred and twenty several times tried to get in kilometers." touch with you to give instruc"That's a pretty long drag." tions. I couldn't get you." "Yes, sir. And I suggest we not "Sorry, sir," Bat said. "I've had stop for lunch." my screen on AI Castro and Luke "It seems to me, Hardin, that Robertson continually so we'd be you're taking over a good deal in instant touch if anything came of the running of this town." up." Bat sighed inwardly. "Not "Well, what did you call me deliberately, Mr. Armanruder. But for now?" I'm the town cop and we were "I suggest we drive all the way being threatened." through to San Luis Potosi and "Well, just remember that New put as much space between us Woodstock is governed by an exand our anti-American friends as ecutive committee elected by the we can. It's a fairly btg city and citizens." Bat said, but gently, "Whose decisions have to be passed upon by the assembly of all town members." "Of course. Very well, Hardin, ril put it to the vote, whether to press on all the way to San Luis Potosi and to skip stopping for lunch." His face faded. Bat grunted. He sometimes wondered at his desire to hold down this job. What did he get out of it? Not even a bit of gratitude from such as Dean Armanruder, and the open dislike of such as Jeff Smith. Which brought Smith to mind again and again he wondered who had voted for that worthy to take over Bat's office. But then he knew. Whoever the traitor was that had kept Don Caesar and his people informed on the movements of the town had also wanted Bat out and someone less competent in the crucial office of town police officer. That was an interesting thought. S AN Luis Potosi was the most modem and progressive Mexican city they had as yet seen. Situated, as it was, on the Pan American Highway and the principle route from the States to Mexico City, it was well equipped with sites for mobile towns. In fact, they spread out far over the countryside and in area were actually larger than the city itself, though it would seem doubtful if all of the sites were ever completely occupied at one time. There were three grades of sites, the smallest, ultra-luxurious with a fine complement of stores, restaurants and even nightclubs and theatres. The least well equipped was by far the largest and intended for mobile towns and cities largely occupied by persons with no other income than commodations at this site must have seemed exotic to the average Mexican, if the complaints of Don Caesar and his men were to be taken literally. Dean Armanruder had called ahead for reservations and been accepted, in spite of the fact that two other towns were at present already parked in San Luis Potosi -- evidently, like New Woodstock, on their way through to points further south. Their town, art colony that it was, seldom took on the expense of renting space in sites of the more swank variety. Although some of New Woodstock's citizens were rather wealthy, a considerably had to watch expenditures. Here, in San Luis Potosi, they drove to the cheapest site available. Bat Hardin, as usual, parked near the administration building and before setting up his own home drifted about the town to check that all was well. Evidently it was. They'd had excellent luck all day with not a single breakdown. The town had kept well together, much more so than usual. New Woodstock's artists were apt to be a bit on the philosophical side and sometimes, on a long haul, the town might be stretched out several hundred IF kilometers. In fact, often single units or small groups would drop behind for days. It made life a misery for the town policeman who would have preferred more cohesion. Bat, sauntering along, passed Jeff Smith who was setting up his overly large home; overly large in view of its single occupant. Smith's mobile home was not as big as those of Armanruder, Blake or even Sam Prager's, although the Prager establishment included the workshop, of course. Jeff Smith looked up at him "Vigilantes," he snorted. Bat ignored him and went on. He was afraid that the southerner wasn't going to make out in New Woodstock. Actually, Bat was sorry. He couldn't like the man but Smith was the only musical composer the art colony had and could have been expected to break down sooner or later and present some of his work at community affairs. All seemed i n order -- with everyone so tired from the strain of the day and the long drive that it was a matter of a quick evening meal and then to bed. Bat returned to his own home, and w'ent through the motions of setting it up. H e went inside and dialed himself a tequila sour on the automatic bar. He could use the drink; he'd been through a lot and gotten precious little sleep the last couple of nights. Glass in hand, he slumped into the most comfortable chair and automatically looked over at his small collection of books. But, the hell with it, he was too tired to read. On his phone screen, he dialed the local road map again and checked. Oueretaro was the next major city, two hundred and three kilometers to the south. That would probably be their next stop. It was far enough, in that they'd been pushing themselves for the past several days. They had made their decision to make the trek to South America while parked in the vicinity of New Orleans and had kept on the road since then. Some of the younger children, in particular, were getting tired. He supposed that they would take a several-day stop at Mexico City to rest up, make any repairs that had accumulated, shop for major items that might not be available in the smaller cities to the south, and allow time for those who had never seen the Mexican capital before to do some sightseeing. He checked. Oaxaca was a fairly good-sized town but otherwise the next major city to the south of Mexico City was Guatemala, in that country. There was a knock on his door and he said, "Come on in." It was Diana Sward. She looked about the room and said, "Damn it, how is it that male bachelors are invariably neater than female ones? I'm ashamed of how my joint looks as compared to this." Bat came to his feet. He said, "You're an artist: paint, brushes, sketching paper, canvases, paintings. It's hard to expect that you could keep a mobile studio spotless." She sighed and sank down onto the couch, without invitation, stretching her long shapely legs out before her. He went over to the bar. "Drink?" "Do you have whiskey?" "No, you can't have whiskey." "Why not?" "Because you're in Mexico. Drink the local product. In Mexico, drink tequila, mescal or Kahlua." "You're a hard man, Hardin. What's Kahlua?" "A liqueur based on coffee and one of the best in the world." "Sounds too sweet. What are you drinking?" "A tequila sour." "You talked me into it." He dialed another tequila sour and took it over to her and then returned to his own chair. They sipped for a moment in silence. Finally she said, "Remember that conversation we had about I.Q.?" "Sure." "I've been thinking about it. The question never occurred to me before -- but is it desirable to breed for greater intelligence?" H e scowled at her. "How do you mean, Di?" "Well, take greater height. Why is being a six-footer or taller desirable? Why is the average height of the Japanese, slightly over five feet, not just as good, or better? Certainly, in the old days when men slugged it out with swords, or when they worked with a shovel or plow, physical size was desirable -- but why now? We don't usually think of a man who weighs over two hundred as being in the best of shape, but we seem to have an absolute mania to be over six feet and to have a genius level I.Q. Why? Has it ever been indicated, not to say proven, that the man with an I.Q. of # is happier than one with an I.Q. of #? The genius, as well as the moron, is a misfit in society. Do we want to be smarter or happier? If it is the pursuit of happiness that is our primary interest, then perhaps we should not seek, as a race, a high intelligence quotient." Bat thought about it, for some reason slightly irritated. The subject was not a happy one with him. He said slowly, "Man is a thinking animal, Di. If it wasn't for our superior intelligence we never would have gotten out of the caves." "All right. But what I meant is man has largely licked the problems he was confronted with in his infancy. We've defeated our animal enemies. We've conquered nature, at least to the extent where we can now satisfy all our needs in abundance. All right. Isn't it time we took stock and decided where we want to go from here? We've achieved the necessities of life, now shouldn't we resume the pursuit of real happiness?" "Whatever that is," Bat said sourly. "Anyway, it's a great idea IF that possibly the average person with an I.Q. of # is just as happy, or possibly happier, than one with #. However, under the Meritocracy, I.Q. is what counts. And if you're ambitious and want to get ahead in our society you'd best have one in the upper brackets." She set her glass down and leaned forward slightly. "That's what I mean. Maybe Ferd Zogbaum is correct. Maybe this Meritocracy of ours isn't the end of the line so far as social evolution is concerned, if there's ever an end." Bat said impatiently, "It's true that in production today not all jobs require a high intelligence. There are various operations, the sensory-manipulative operations that are involved in handling a power shovel, for instance, which have no appreciable educational or intellectual requirements and which do not lend themselves to automatic processes. But the overwhelming majority of useful jobs today do require high I.Q. and there is simply little place for those who are not particularly bright, to put it bluntly." "But there should be, that's the point I'm trying to make." B at made a gesture of impatience. "But the fact remains that there is no place for us in modern production. A fraction of the people can handle all of the jobs. Maybe it's not good for the rest of us to sit around idle, but there's no alternative." She leaned forward still further, the towns must roll her elbows on her knees and her voice very earnest. "Then we've got to make some changes. Back before we licked the problems of production of abundance that was and had to be the main goal of the race. Food, clothing, shelter, medicine, education, recreation for all, in abundance. But now that we've gained the goals, let's stop a minute and look around. How about the arts, how about the handicrafts? Ours has become a synthetic world, why not devote these surplus energies of ours, devote the leisure time that hangs so heavily, to cultivating the old virtues? My grandfather mentions that when he was a boy, practically everybody played some musical instrument, there was a bandstand in every park and at least one band in every town, no matter how small. Women used to sew, knit, crochet, embroider, make quilts and so forth. Have you ever seen in a museum some of those homemade quilts and compared them with the mass produced things that we put on our beds today?" Bat was chewing away on his lip. He said, "Some people already go into the arts. Yourself, forinstance. But not everybody has talent. And most are too lazy, if they don't have to, to bother with doing ceramics, weaving cloth, quilting or whatever." "Perhaps they are now, but that's our problem. We've got to educate our people to want to do them. Take cooking. Cooking has become automated -- and it lisstes like it. Why, the person who could afford decent food a hundred years ago wouldn't have dreamed of eating the tasteless stuff that we down these days. Ncver has food been more beautifully packaged, been so adulterated, and tasted so poorly. And music. For all practical purposes. it's all canned. Sometimes I think that a few dozen musicians are turning out all the music for the country. How long has it been since you've seen a live musician? How long has it been since you've seen live theatre?" "It. doesn't make sense in this day for there to be live theatres, employing tens of thousands of actors, when a cast of twenty can once over TV." "Like hell it doesn't," she said. "That's exactly the point I was trying to make. I'm beginning to suspect that Ferd is right. Our present society needs a little subverting. What time is it?" She brought her pocket phone from lcr jeans and dialed the time. "Good Lord," she said. "Is it that late? I better be going. I assume w'e're off to a fairly early start in the morning." Bat shrugged. "Not necessarily. We'll probably only go about two hundred kilometers." He stood to see her to the door. B at Hardin had been right. New Woodstock was slow to get underway the following moring. It was almost eleven o'clock before they began to roll. Dean Armanruder was impatient with 'Bat but yielded to his demand that the town remain in tight convoy again this day. Bat led the way down the Pan American Highway, about a kilometer in advance of the town proper. AI Castro -- driving today rather than his wife Pamela -- was in Bat's usual place immediately ahead of the column. Luke Robertson brouglit up the very rear. All went without incident for the first # kilometers, then before him Bat spotted an officiallooking car, with two uniformed men next to it. There was a crossroad and a barrier blocked the highway they were proceeding along. The sign on the barrier read Dcsvicicion and an arrow pointed to the right. Bat pulled up and one of the uniformed Mexicans canle over and touched the peak of his cap in an informal salute. Bat said, "What's up?" "Desviacion,' the other told him, then in passable English, "What you call a detour, Senor. The road is being worked upon ahead." He brought forth a road map from his hip pocket and traced on it with a finger. "It is not much difference in distance. You go over here toward Dolores Hidalgo and then turn south to San Miguel de Allende. Then you come out at Oucrctaro, here." He shrugged. "Actually, it is a much more beautiful drive than this one." Bat shrugged too. "Okay," he said. The other turned and went back to the car. IF The town was beginning to catch up with him. He raised Al Castro in his phone and said, "Slight detour. We turn right." "Okay as she goes," Al yawned. "Hotter'n hell today. I hate heat." Al also hated cold, when it was cold and rain when it rained, as Bat Hardin recalled. Bat flicked him off and proceeded. He dialed the local road map and checked out the route of the detour. As the Mexican had said, it didn't lengthen their trip by very much. The road, of course, wasn't nearly as fine as the Pan American Highway, but it was adequate. There seemed to be no traffic whatsoever, which mildly surprised him. But then, of course, there weren't nearly the number of vehicles in Mexico that there were in the States and this was a by-way. Before quite reaching the historic Dolores Hidalgo which. Bat vaguely recalled, was the town where the Mexican revolution against Spain had begun, the road turned south. Before him he could see mountains rising, but in this vicinity, although there were some hills and rises, the terrain was largely flat and covered with cactus and mesquite. Attractive enough, in sort of a wasteland way, but not exactly an area where one would build a home. Suddenly his screen flicked on and Luke Robertson's face was there, his eyes wide. "Bat!" he yelped. "I'm under fire and..." The screen blanked and Luke's face was replaced with an abstract the towns must roll of meaningless flashing colors. A barrage of screaming bullets ricocheted off the armor of Bat Hardin's converted police car. Across the fields, he could see large scurrying groups of men, running and firing, converging upon New Woodstock. H e banged the activating switch of his car TV phone and snapped into the screen, "Mexican Highway Police. Emergency!" The screen still ran impossible color. He slewed the car to the left, presenting the far side to the fire from the attackers. He grabbed his portable phone from his pocket, aclivtted it and yelled, "Mexican Highway Police. Emergency! Emergency!" But that screen too was a meaningless menage of streaks of moving color. Bat banged out the side of his car and, crouching, darted back to Al Castro's vehicle, now immediately behind him. Al was driving, Pamela seated next to him, her pudding face a lard gray and her eyes in shock. Al was firing over her through her window with his Gyro-jet pistol, his face wild with excitement. Bat shouted, "Al! Your car phone! Does it work?" The magazine of his deputy's gun was evidently now empty. Al slammed the phone on. The color was there again. Bat groaned. "They've got some kind of a scrambler on us. All Out over the fields! Lead them into a complete circle. Bumper to bumper! Take off!" He ripped back to his own car and fetched his carbine. Al Castro took out over the cactus-strewn field, bumping and bouncing, his mobile home careening every which way behind him. Jake Benton, his eyes wide, was immediately behind Al. Bat yelled to him from the shelter of the rear of his police car. "Follow Castro! Form a circle! Form a circle! Then get out and return the fire!" Benton's mobile home, careening as wildly as Al Castro's before him, took out over the desolate field. Sam Prager's vehicles were next. Bat yelled, "Auxiliaries to the middle! Form a second circle. Hospital and school in the center!" Sam nodded, gripped his wheel fiercely and vas out after the others. Bat glared right and left. The attackers were largely in front on hills and knolls and too far off for really accurate fire, though they were closing in fast. However, occasionally slugs were still bouncing off the other side of his car. They seemed hitting from all directions and Luke's warning before the phones had gone out meant they were in the rear of the convoy as well. He continued to yell orders as the homes went by. Out in the field, Al Castro, avoiding mesquite trees but plowing right over all except the largest cactus plants, was making his circle. Bat fished inside the car and located a fresh clip for his carbine. He fired and fired again, bellowing directions to the arriving cars. When the hospital, one section of which was being driven by Doc Barnes himself, came up. Bat yelled, "The hospital and school to the very center. Women and kids into them! They've got the thickest walls, for soundproofing. Women and kids into school and hospital!" Doc Barnes nodded grimly and took off after the others, his section of the hospital bobbing desperately behind. A l Castro's car and his drawn home were beginning to come up from the rear on the tail end of the last of the New Woodstock column. Even after the circle had been drawn, with Luke Robertson's vehicles at the closure, Al continued to circle, slowing down, getting as near bumper to bumper as possible. Bat Hardin jumped back into his car and took after them. Luke Robertson slewed to one side to let him through. Bat drove to the center and popped out. All the auxiliaries had been drawn, as directed, in a smaller circle; within were hospital and school which a dozen men were setting up as rapidly as possible in the mounting confusion. Bat yelled at the top of his IF voice, "All with guns take positions behind your homes. All without, get shovels. Dig foxholes. All with more than one gun, turn them over to your neighbors. All women with children, into hospital or school. Lie down on the floors. All women under thirty-five without children, get guns or shovels. If you have no shovels, frying pans. Dig!" Children were screaming, women calling and crying. Half of the town was running about in a hash of confusion. There were a dozen cases of hysteria. Jeff Smith came up, under his arm a wicked high-velocity game rifle with a telescopic sight. He looked around at the preparations Bat had ordered and which were now fully underway and said, "I understand you were in the Asian War. What was your rank?" Bat looked at him. "First Lieutenant, when it ended." Jeff Smith cocked his head a little. "You don't look the type Bat said, impatiently, "I was battle commissioned during the Mekong Delta debacle." Smith nodded. "I was at the delta. #th Airborne. Was a Staff Sergeant. What are your orders...sir?" Bat took a breath. "Move around the circle, locate what other veterans we have. Spot them strategically. Be sure they all have the best weapons we have, even if you have to confiscate them from the others...sergeant." "Yes, sir." Jeff Smith turned and, crouching, hurried in the direction of the perimeter. Luke Robertson and Al Castro came in at a trot. "Wow!" Al shouted, over the blast of shotguns, the snip of twenty-twos and other small caliber gunfire, the snap of sporting and converted surplus military rifles. Bat rapped, "Al, get around the circle. Cut down on this fire. We'll be out of ammo in half an hour. Cut the fire down to men with longer range rifles and our best shots. Cut those goddamned shotguns out. They can't reach a fraction of the range those guys are at." "Right, Bat." Al scooted away. There was a whoosh of sound and beyond them a mesquite tree erupted in flame and explosion. Bat winced. "Holy smokes," he protested. "A bazooka." Luke said, pointing excitedly, "It came from over there on that knoll. Bat." Bat Hardin was gnawing his lip in agitation. "That's an old model, probably far back as the Second War. God only knows where they got it. But it's out of range. Listen, Luke, go around and locate our best marksmen. They'll know who they are. Get our best long-range rifles into their hands, those with telescopic sights. Pin that bazooka down. If they get it within range, we're mincemeat." Luke was off, crouching low as he left the semi-security of the inner circle of auxiliary vehicles. Bat snarled. So they had been jumped in a bad spot. Now he realized that detour had been a plant. Don Caesar's men had directed them out here. Now he realized why they hadn't been seeing other vehicles, cars and trucks along this lonely by-way. Somehow, the enemy had blocked off the road. Worse, in effect now, they were surrounded. Single men and small groups edging closer, darting in, scurrying around for cover. But the fire had fallen off. Evidently, the antiAmerican vigilantes hadn't expected this efficient a defense. Bat's lips thinned back. "Come in and get us, you bastards," he muttered. Two men went by with an improvised stretcher. Doc Barnes came hurrying out of the hospital and bent over the victim. Bat called, "Is he bad?" Barnes looked up. "It's Thompson. He's dead." Bat closed his eyes in pain. Fred Thompson had the biggest family in New Woodstock. Five children. Bat said to the two stretcher bearers, "Bury him immediately. We don't want any of our dead lying around where they can be seen. Bad for morale," Little Chuck Benton came up excitedly. "Mr. Hardin, what should I do?" Bat looked at him. The boy was eleven or twelve. He began to order him to the shelter of the school, then pulled up. He said, "Get a bucket of water and a dipper or cup, son. Go around to the men. Combat is dry work." "Yes sir." Crouching low, as Smith, Castro and Robertson before him. Bat left the shelter of the auxiliaries and scurried for the perimeter of mobile homes, his carbine in hand. He began touring, barking orders for more rapid digging of fox holes. Art Clarke came hurrying up to him, an enormous and glinting gun in hand. Bat Hardin recognized it. He snapped, "Isn't that a Chinese Am-#? Where in the hell did you get it?" Even in this excitement, Clarke seemed slightly embarrassed. He said, "War souvenir." "Fully automatic? How many clips do you have for it?" "Yeah. It's the Canton model. Two clips." "How much spare ammo?" "Possibly a hundred rounds." Bat looked quickly around and yelled, "Milt Waterman! Over here." The boy who usually drove the administration building when they were rolling came hustling up. Bat rapped, "You two, get into that hole over there. Set that automatic rifle up. Milt, you keep the spare clip loaded. Art, you let loose a burst of fire from time to time. A longer burst than you'd expect from a gun that light. I want to make it look as though we've got a machine gun. Wait a minute. After you've let off a couple of bursts from this side, go to the direct opposite and do the same. Make it look as though we've got two machine guns. But go easy. Stretch out that ammo IF as much as you can, understand?" "Got it," Art Clarke said excitedly. Bat walked on. D iana Sward was sitting on the ground at the rear of her mobile studio. She had a sporting rifle in her hands and her elbows were on her knees as she periodically and with great coolness squeezed off a shot. "Watch the ammunition," Bat told her, beginning to go by. She grinned up at him, her eyes shining. "I think I nicked at least one. You know what this reminds me of? A wagon train, surrounded by Sitting Bull's braves." "It is," he said grimly and hurried on. He heard a bee buzz past his head. That had been a close one. He came to Dean Armanruder's mobile mansion. Armanruder, his back tight against the side of one of the sections, his face pasty, screamed at him, "Do something!" Bat looked at him. "What? We're doing all we can. They've got a scrambler around here, somewhere. We can't call for help." "Surrender! Tell them we'll do anything! We've got money. Anything they want!" The older man was panting. "Tell them we'll do anything they say." Bat Hardin shook his head as though in an attempt to clear it. Two more of the men without guns went by, carrying one of the hospital's stretchers, an inert form on it. Jeff Smith was approaching from the direction opposite to the one in which Bat had been circling the perimeter. Bat said, "Sergeant, you and AI Castro improvise a white flag. He added sardonically, "My compliments to Don Caesar and ask him for his terms." "Yes, sir." Crouching, Jeff Smith headed for the inner circle of auxiliaries. Bat went on. He passed Ferd Zogbaum, who coolly and efficiently was digging a small trench. He had an army surplus entrenching tool. There were quite a few of the efficient compact tools in town, Bat knew. Bat said, "Ferd, there's a scrambler on us. All electronic communication devices have been disrupted." Ferd looked up, his face registering surprise. Bat said, before going on, "I doubt if that bug of yours is operative." Jeff Smith and Al Castro came hurrying up. Smith had a white pillowcase tacked onto a broom handle with thumbtacks. The southerner said, "Any special instructions. Lieutenant?" Bat shook his head. "Play it by ear. Tell them we'll go back. Tell them we pledge not to take any action against them, to the extent we can. Obviously, the Mexican authorities are going to get after them, but so far as we can, we'll avoid prosecuting. Promise anything. Armanruder offered money, but he's hysterical." "Yes, sir," Jeff said. T he two leaned their guns against a mobile home and stepped out into the open, the improvised white flag held high. For a moment, they stood there -- obviously awaiting the impact of slugs before those out beyond could distinguish that they were seeking a conference. Bat Hardin, his hands cupped to his mouth was yelling, "Hold fire, hold fire, everybody!" The firing of the defenders .fell off. So did that of the attackers. Smith and Castro began to walk forward. Shortly, down from one of the nearer knolls came two others. Even at this distance, the hair of one showed gray. "Don Caesar," Bat muttered. He 'turned and called to Ferd, "Make the rounds. Get Tom Benton to go with you. Round up all the ammo we have and take it into the enclosure of the auxiliaries and inventory it. Separate it into piles by caliber and gauge. Also inventory every gun we have, rifle, pistol, shotgun, by caliber and gauge. We've got to take rigid steps to conserve our munitions." Dean Armanruder came up, still quaking, his eyes glaring. "What do you mean? What do you mean? We're surrendering." Bat said grimly, "We hope we're surrendering but I doubt if we're going to be allowed to." He turned and called, "Keep digging. When you get your fox holes finished, you with shovels go on into the inner circle and start a new trench. If worse comes to worst, we'll make our last stand there." Armanruder said shrilly, "Are you mad? We're surrendering. We'll do anything. I've got money! We can buy them off." Bat said, "Mr. Armanruder, those men out there think they're fighting for their country, their culture, for their socioeconomic system, their women and even their religion. It makes quite a motive for fighting. On top of that, it hasn't been easy for them to organize this and put it over. They're not going to have a second chance and they know it. The Mexican authorities are going to land on them like a ton of bricks. They'll have to or Uncle Sam would take measures. So they've got to put this over this time. Their strategy is obvious. They're going to make an example of us so frightful that no American mobile homer would dream of coming to Mexico, and those already here are going to make a beeline for the border and never return." "You're insane!" "I hope so," Bat growled. Several score of the men, guns in hand, had gathered around to watch after Smith and Castro, who had by now met the delegation from the other side. Bat spoke softly. "We've got one thing in our favor. They've got to finish us quickly. Somehow they've blocked the road both in front and behind but they can't keep that up indefinitely. A police patrol or someone else will stumble on what's happening. If we can stick it out until morning, we'll have it made." IF Art Clarke said, "Great -- but when night comes they're going to bring that bazooka into range. Then we've had it." Bat said, half angrily, "That'll be all, Clarke. They probably only have a few rounds for it. The thing's an antique. It's unlikely they've got more than a few charges." on their way back. All stood in silence, waiting. The two reentered the perimeter of mobile homes. Both of their faces were strained. Bat said, "Well?" Jeff Smith looked him in the face. "They'll grant no terms. Wouldn't even allow the w o m en and children to come out under a truce flag. The old one said it was less brutal in the long run to make this example so crushing a one that it would be done once and for all." Smith snorted disgust. "He sent his apologies, but said there was no alternative." "So," Bat said. "A massacre." He turned to the assembled men. "Return to your positions. So long as they're at this distance, restrain your fire. Only veterans and our experienced marksmen with long-range rifles are to fire at all. Hold your small arms and shotguns up until they are at point blank range, which possibly won't come until tonight." Dean Armanruder shrilled, "No. No, don't listen to him! Don't shoot back at them! We'll all surrender! We'll go out with our hands up, in a body. They'll accept our surrender!" "Like hell they will," Bat said. "Get back to your positions, men." "Shut up, Hardin!" the former magnate yelled at him. "You're removed from your position as town police officer. I'm in command here!" He began going from group to group, yelling at the men, some of whom looked sheepish now. Somebody grumbled, "Maybe he's right. If we all went out with our hands up..." Jeff Smith looked at Bat. Bat said, "Sergeant, put him under arrest and take him into the inner circle. Post a guard over him, one of the older men we can spare from the firing line. If he attempts further to destroy morale, shoot him." ' Smith said, "Yes, sir." He turned and grabbed Armanruder by the arm and hustled him away, jerking at the restraint and protesting hysterically. The vigilantes were firing again, beginning to edge in. Bat began making the round once more, encouraging the marksmen, continually urging the conservation of all ammunition. "You'll get your chance soon enough," he snapped to those with short-range veapons. He came to Ferd Zogbaum, who was seated nonchalantly in a foxhole, looking out over the field. He held a double-barrel shotgun in his hands, but wasn't firing it. Bat said, "See you've got yourself a gun." He began to go on. But Ferd looked at him strangely and said, "Bat. I've got a funny feeling." Bat Hardin stopped and looked at him. Ferd looked out over the field again and said, "I've got a feeling that that scrambler, or whatever you called it, is awfully nearby. Well, say within a couple of hundred yards or so." "How do you know?" "I don't. I just have that feeling." B at went on again, crouching, going from one foxhole to the next. He came to Sam Prager, who was crouched in a comfortably deep one-man entrenchment. Bat hunkered down on his heels and said, "Sam, tell me something about scramblers." "Not much to tell," Sam said. "You wouldn't understand the workings unless you had some background in electronics." "I haven't. How wide a range does one have?" Sam scowled. "According to what kind it is. The miiitary have some real doozies, blanket a wide, wide area." "But would our pals out there be apt to have anything like that?" Sam looked up into the sky, scowling still. "Well, no, now that you mention it. And they don't even have a helicopter." "Why would they need one?" "It'd give them more range. As it is, they've probably got it mounted on some high spot out there." "Do I understand you right? It's got to be within sight of the area it's blanking?" "Well, more or less. Part of it has to be. The antenna." "So out there, somewhere within sight, is our scrambler?" "It's got to be." Bat took a deep breath. "Isn't it portable? Can't they be moving it around?" "I wouldn't think so. A scrambler's a pretty delicate mechanism, Bat. They'd have to get it all set up. If they had to move it, it would be off for the time of moving and until they got it rigged up again." Bat got up. The firing was growing slowly more intense from the other side, falling off on the part of the defenders who were becoming increasingly conscious of their depleted store of ammunition. New Woodstock had not been proceeding with any idea at all of a need for large stocks of cartridges and shells. Some weapons had only a score or so rounds available, which was the reason that Bat had pooled their supply. It was now being doled out grudgingly to the best shots. Bat Hardin again bent almost double as he scurried across the open space between the outer ring of vehicles and the inner. He sought out Jeff Smith, who was busy supervising the digging of the trench to mark their last stand, if it came to that. Bat said, "Sergeant." The southerner came over and IF looked at him queslioningly. Bat pointed with his finger, swept it around the horizon. "According to Sam Prager the scrambler is somewhere out there in an elevated position. Probably on one of those knolls. We could make a sortie and destroy it." "Yeah," the other one said disgustedly. "But which knoll?" Bat called over to Luke Robertson. "Luke, locate us a couple of pair of the strongest binoculars in town." Then he turned back to Jeff Smith. "It seems that it takes a bit of time to set a scrambler up. Very delicate. And if you want to keep it in action, you can't be moving it. It's got to sit there. Now our friend, Don Caesar, is no fool. He's figured out this raid to the last detail. He knows that our only chance is to get to that scrambler and wreck it. He also knows that we have some four hundred armed and desperate men on hand for a sortie. So what does he do?" S mith's forehead was wrinkled. "I'm not following you, Lieutenant." "If one of those knolls out there was more strongly defended than any other, what would you suspect?" "That that's where the scrambler was." "And if one knoll had no men around it at all... Smith got it of a sudden. "You mean the old bastard is trying to fox us by having that damn thing stuck up somewhere with nobody at all in the vicinity ?" "It's worth thinking about." Luke came up with the glasses and handed them to Smith and Bat. They began to scan the vicinity slowly, carefully. Bat peered. "It would probably be one of the higher knolls, and one not too very far away. They planned this down to the last detail. They maneuvered us out into this field, knew exactly where we'd have to go. And that scrambler was all set up and waiting for us when we arrived." Jeff Smith said, "There it is. Lieutenant." He pointed. "I can just barely make out an antenna, or whatever it is." Bat Hardin direeted his glasses. "You're right. Okay, Sergeant. It's you and me." Smith looked at him. "Just the two of us? Wouldn't it make more sense if we took a hundred of the best men and headed for that knoll on the double?" Bat sh(X)k his head. "My converted police car is the only armored vehicle in town and it's a two-seater. We have, in short, the equivalent of a tank. Can you operate an AM-#?" "The Chinese automatic? Sure, why not?" "Get Art Clarke's from him and both clips of ammo. I'll meet you at my car." Jeff Smith took off and Bat Hardin called to AI Castro, "Al, let me have your gyro-jet pistol." Al handed it over. Bat Hardin checked the magazine, jacked a #mm rocket cartridge into the barrel. He stuck the gun in his belt, then brought forth his own identical weapon and checked and loaded it. Then he went over to his car, located spare #mm rocket shells and dropped them into his side pocket. He took up his carbine and filled the magazine to capacity. Bat said, "Al, get together our best half dozen marksmen. That knoll out there looks as though nobody at all is around. There's nobody firing from the top or anything. However, I'll bet my left arm that they've got a sizable defending force behind it, keeping hidden. Jeff and I are going to need all the covering fire we can get." "Got you," Al said, moving off. been digging now stood around, pop-eyed, at what Bat was planning. Manuel Chavez, shovel in hand, said, "Mr. Hardin, for sure, you are not going out there into all that fire?" "Somebody's got to go, or we'll unlikely see tomorrow," Bat growled. "Come on. Sergeant. The delta was never like this." "Thank the good Lord," Jeff Smith muttered. "It was bad enough." He had Art Clarke's automatic rifle under his arm and was stuffing the spare magazine into a side pocket. He climbed into the seat next to Bat's driver position. Smith looked out over the terrain. "You think you can make #V it over that? You'd need at least a four wheel drive." Bat grinned. "I've got secrets in this buggy." He dropped the conversion lever, activated the air cushion and the vehicle rose a foot from the ground. He recessed the wheels and yelled out the window, "Luke, get that crate of yours out of the way." "I'll be damned -- a little old hover-car," Smith said. Bat nodded while Luke hurried to get his electro-steamer and mobile home out of the way so that the two volunteers could leave the perimeter. Luke yelled, "Okay, Bat!" The police car, now air-cushion borne, flowed ahead. Immediately, slugs began to bounce off in screaming ricochet. "Holy smokes," Bat bit out, "You'd think they were waiting for us. Keep your window up until we get on the scene. Bullet-proof glass. They'd have to have antitank shells to knock us off." Smith said, "They don't need anti-tank shells. They've got that bazooka." "Ummm," Bat said distastefully, beginning to zig and zag in evasive action. "But I've got a sneaking suspicion that the boys operating it aren't exactly crack shots. Who in the hell knows how to fire a bazooka accurately these days? It's one thing sitting pat and directing it at something as big as New Woodstock. But a small target on the move?" "I hope you're right. Lieutenant," the other told him dryly. The knoll was perhaps three IF hundred yards away. AVs marksmen were going to have to be on their merit to do much in the way of covering. However, any fire at all was better than none, just so it didn't hit Bat or Jeff Smith. Bat kept the car at as high a speed as was consistent with the terrain and their air cushions, but they were doing fifty kilometers an hour at best. Occasional bullets continued to rain off their armor but thus far there had been no stirring of opponents on the knoll which was their destination. Bat began to wonder if he had guessed wrong. But no, it was more than a guess, the closer they got the more obvious was the antenna, stretching its evil feelers up into the sky, robbing them of contact with the outside world and succor. obvious that the car would never make it up to the summit. Bat groaned, "These things are impossible on non-horizonal surfaces. They slip off in every direction except the one you want to go." Jeff Smith bit out, "Get as far up as you can and then cover me. I'll make a run for it." "Why not me?" "Because you know how to drive this contraption and I don't." "All right." Just as they hit the bottom of the slope, a half dozen Mexicans materialized at the summit and began firing down at them. Smith muttered, "Amateurs!" He activated the window, then steadied the Chinese automatic rifle on the sill and let loose a sweeping burst. Several went down, screaming pain; the others ducked for cover. Jeff Smith was out of the car, gun in hand and zig-zagging up to the crest. "Go it!" Bat yelled. He popped from the side of the car, both gyro-jet pistols in his hands. Jeff Smith scrambled, slid, fell, was on his feet again. Up he went. One of the Mexicans at the top got to his knees. He was holding some sort of automatic weapon with which Bat Hardin was unfamiliar. It stuttered and Jeff Smith fell off to the side. Bat fired twice and brought the gunner down. He started up the hill after his companion. From the perimeter of mobile homes came a hail of supporting fire, sweeping the top of the small mesa. Bat Hardin reached the other man. He jammed his pistols into his belt, swearing uncontrollably. "Bad?" he snapped, reaching down. Jeff Smith groaned, "Yeah. Nailed me at least twice. Belly." Bat hiked the other up over his shoulder, reached down and swept up the automatic and started staggering and stumbling down the hill. A blow struck him in the right hip and he all but fell. He continued on, stumbling. He could feel the blood running down his leg. They got to the car, on Smith's side. Bat dumped him in and hurried around, limping and dragging his leg, to his own side. He lifted his right leg by grabbing hold of the cloth of his pants and swung it into the cab. He wedged himself in and pulled Smith to a position so that he could close the door on that side. He swerved the car and headed back. He would have liked to have made his own try for the crest but he doubted that his leg would allow him; and besides, Jeff Smith had to be gotten back to Doc Barnes. Bullets were again caroming off the surface of the vehicle. They retraced their route. Twice, Bat Hardin recognized the whoosh and trail of bazooka rockets but he had been right; they were far off the mark. Whoever was on the old-time rocket launcher was no marksman. Luke Robertson's vehicles were still drawn out of the way and Bat Hardin maneuvered through. He yelled out the window "Jeff's been hit. Where's Doc Barnes?" Barnes came hurrying forw'ard. Jeff Smith, his face drained as death, looked over at Bat. "Hey, man." "Yeah?" "Sorry about that...that..." Doc Barnes wrenched open the door of the car on Smith's side and bent over him. He looked up at Bat. "He's dead." B at HardN didn't say anything for the moment. Two men were hauling Jeff Smith from the car, ridiculously gently in view of the fact that pain would never come to the small southerner again. Bat said, "I've copped one too, Doc. See if you can patch me up a little." "Get out of the car." Bat shook his head. "Can't. If I do. I'll never be able to get back in, and I'm the only one who can drive this thing." He looked at Luke. "Somebody in here tipped them that we were coming in this vehicle. Find Nadine Paskov. Find out who voted against me in that hassle I had with Jeff." He added sourly, "She's probably under some bed, somewhere. I suspect whoever cast that vote against me is our traitor. If she refuses to tell you, for whatever reason, slap her around a little." "Got it," Luke said. "What do I do if I find the traitor?" Bat looked at him. "Got it," Luke said and was off. "Hold still, damn it," Doc Barnes snapped. "Let me get this bandage on. You need plasma." "Oh, great," Bat said. "Have you got a pep pill instead?" He looked out over the crowd and called, 'Terd, you're next." "Coming up," Ferd Zogbaum sang out, pushing his way through the assembled men. He caught up the automatic rifle that had fallen to the ground when the men had taken Smith's body out nd scrambled into the bloody seat next to Bat. IF Bat called, feeling himself already weaker, "There's an extra clip of ammo in Jeff's pocket." Somebody brought it. Bat Hardin activated the lift lever again and they started forward. He explained as they went, "I can't get the car to the crest. You'll have to make it on foot. All hell is breaking loose there. Don Caesar is sending new men over as fast as they can make it to defend the point. They know damn well, now, that we know it's there and they've got to defend it." He felt his voice going weaker. Next to him, Ferd Zogbaum was checking the clip in the gun. Jeff Smith had nearly emptied it. Ferd threw it and rammed home the spare full clip. Bat said, weakly. "Where'd you get checked out on the Am-#?" "I was in the big one, too." They were approaching the knoll. From behind, the full barrage of all that New Woodstock could mount in the way of longrange rifles was firing over them, attempting to pin down any of the enemy forces on hand. Bat ground to a halt. He pulled his two pistols out. "Okay, Ferd, it's all yours." Ferd was out of the car, automatic in hands and scurrying up the hill. A continual fire kicked up the dust around his feet but he miraculously remained erect. Bat, his eyes fogging, leaned out the window of the car and blasted away at anything else that moved. The freelance writer achieved the top, fired in this direction and that and finally immediately down as though toward his feet. He turned and began retracing his steps, running dangerously. He fell, rolled a score of feet, staggered back erect and came on again. Suddenly, Ferd Zogbaum stopped dead in his tracks. The automatic rifle dropped from his hands. He grabbed his head desperately and began to waver. "The bug!" He staggered around, completely out of control of himself, moaning agony. Bat, sagging weakly himself, flicked on his phone and stuttered, "Emergency, emergency. Mexican Police. Road Dolores Hidalgo, San Miguel de Allende. Emergency, emergency, emer..." And then the fog rolled in. scious again, he was in the mobile dinic of Doc Barnes. He felt weak but his mind was alert. He looked about him. Ferd Zogbaum, unconscious, was in the next bed. It was a three-bed dormitory. The other bed was empty. Doc Barnes came in followed by Diana Sward who was wearing a white nurse's smock. She was obviously a volunteer. Barnes said, "You're awake. Good." He turned and looked down at Ferd Zogbaum. Bat said, "How's Ferd?" "He'll be all right. We're taking him in for some minor surgery now." Bat said, "Listen, has he been unconscious all this time?" Doc Barnes looked at him impatiently over his shoulder. "Why, yes." Bat said, "Look Doc, when you were in private practice what was your specialty?" "Why, I was a surgeon." "Brain surgeon?" "No. I have done some brain surgery but it was not my specialty." Bat took a deep breath. "Look, Doc. Ferd Zogbaum is going to die on your operating table." Di Sward blurted, "Don't be an ass." He ignored her. "Doc, Ferd has an electronic device planted in his skull. Can you take it out?" Barnes stared at him. Bat pursued... "He's a paroled convict. Life sentence. He saved us all. Look Doc. We took a lot of casualties in this fracas. All is confusion. He can die on your operating table. You can sign -- whatever it is you doctors sign when a guy cashes in." "I'm an ethical..." "And you and everybody in New Woodstock owe your life to Ferd Zogbaum." Doctor Barnes held a long silence. Finally he said, "What was he sentenced to life for? I have heard of this electronic bug before but it is the first in my experience. Is he a murderer?" It was Di Sward who said heatedly, "He's an idealist! He has political objections to the present socioeconomic system in the States." Doc Barnes looked at her wryly. "You seem a bit partisan, Miss Sward. However, so am I. I don't know exactly what they are, but I too have reservations about our present socioeconomic system. You are sure that Zogbaum's, ah, crimes, are all of a political nature?" "Yes!" Diana said firmly. "Very well. Now the question becomes, if he, ah, dies on my operating table and I remove the electronic device from his skull, how does he continue to collect himself?" Bat and Diana looked at each other blankly. Diana Sward said finally, "I make a reasonable living with my painting. He can write under a pseudonym until he gets to the point where he is making better sales. We'll never return to the States." Doc Barnes thought about it, disgust on his face. "Damn it," he said. "Why can't a doctor just carve them up, or slip them the necessary shots or pills?" He looked at Di. "Miss Sward, let's make the arrangements to get this operation rolling." He turned and left the room. Diana Sward looked at Bat and said, "I think we've swung him. See you later. Bat." "Yeah, see you later, Di," he said, looking after the woman he loved as she left the room. Aftermath T he Secretoria de Defensa Nacional colonel said courIF teously, "Your arrest was a technicality, of course. You are free to go at any time you wish, Senor Hardin. But after all, several of our citizens were killed, including Caesar Munoz and his son, Jose." "And several of our own citizens," Bat Hardin said softly. "Yes, including one that you killed yourselves, this Manuel Chavez." "He was caught signaling Don Caesar's men," Bat said. "He tried to resist arrest and Mr. Robertson was forced to shoot him. Evidently, he had what amounted to a mania against his employer and against Americans in general." The colonel gestured to the TV phone screen on his desk. "As I said, your arrest was a technicality; however, to double check on you, I secured your dossier from your National Data Banks. Your record, I am pleased to see, is impeccable." Bat said, "I should congratulate you people on the speed with which you came to our assistance. I understand the heliocopters were there in less than half an hour." The colonel nodded. "You see, we were aware of Caesar Munoz's activities and his group was under observation. We knew they had desperate plans but weren't exactly sure what they were. Nevertheless, we had a sizable force on continual alert. Frankly, we were astonished at the magnitude of his attempt. Thank God he has failed." Bat looked at him. "Are you sure he has? What will happen when this affair hits the headlines?" "It will not hit the headlines, Senor Hardin. The Mexican and United States governments are cooperating to suppress the account. We are aware of the problems brought on by the mobile towns, but Don Caesar's solution was not the correct one." "What is the solution?" The colonel shrugged in a Latin gesture. "Perhaps I do not know. Perhaps it is more rapid progress for Mexico so that we, in turn, become an affluent society." He laughed abruptly. "You would be surprised, Senor Hardin, how rapidly the spread of mobile homes is coming to our country. We already have several mobile resort towns, some of which cross periodically to the United States. And, to the south, Guatemala has recently complained of the large number of Mexican homes and trailers that are flooding that country." Bat came to his feet. "I should be going. New Woodstock is scheduled to head south today. All repairs have been completed." "Of course." The colonel stood too and extended his hand for a shake. He said, "Would you mind answering one question, Senor Hardin?" Bat looked at him. The colonel said, "I went over the details of the whole unfortunate affair. I must say, I admired your measures." "Thanks," Bat said. "As a police officer myself, I find I am somewhat surprised that your talents are hidden away in such a small town as New Woodstock. Your war record is impressive." He gestured at Bat's dossier, still in the screen on his desk. "Have you never considered attending one of your American police schools and then securing a position in one of your larger cities?" Bat said evenly, "I'm not eligible." The colonel frowned puzzlement. "But why?" "My I.Q. is inadequate." "inadequate! We do not use the same system here in Mexico but I was under the impression that an I.Q. of # was quite superior." "My I.Q. is #, Colonel." Frowning still, the colonel looked down at the dossier. "It says here, #. You seem to have made some mistake, Sehor Hardin. One test shows #, but the average is corrected to #." Bat Hardin stood silently for a long moment. Finally, he said softly, "AI Castro can take over my job." The colonel's eyebrows went up. "You are not continuing with the rest of your town to the south?" "No. Tm returning to the States to find my level. Perhaps Ferd Zogbaum was correct and there are basic changes to be made in the Meritocracy, but, if so, they'll be made from the inside, not from without." "I wish you luck, Sehor Hardin," the colonel said.  Poul Anderson Jack Wodhams Fritz Leiber A. Bertram Chandler copy on the newsstond today! IF (Continued from page #) letter words and a few overt sex scenes, this is one of the least depraved books I can imagine. In fact, in many ways this might be considered a wholesome and old-fashioned novel, despite the surface trimmings. The leading character is neither a weak antihero nor a pervert of any kind. In his own way, he's a strong man facing up to his problems as best he can and slowly solving his own ethical obligations in terms of his conscience. If the novel isn't inspirational, it's at least up-beat in the final analysis. Spinrad seems to accept the fact that evil is rather horrible and to come out in favor of decency. T he novel concerns a power struggle between two men, with other groups doing some fighting from the sidelines. Jack Baron is a former radical activist who helped found a third party known as the S.J.C. Then he got into television by accident and has achieved success as a master of a television interview show known as Bug Jack Barron. With a hunhe is intoxicated by his power to make or break almost any person or cause. Power has him in its grip and the old crusading spirit seemsTibout to die in him. As a result of a routine interview, he finds himself pitted against the noted Benedict Howards. Howards has become the leader in operating freezers for the dead who hope to be revived later when medical science has learned a bit more. Each freezing requires a deposit of # and so far. This gives Howards control Senators and thus he dominates the Democratic Party. He is now fighting to put through a bill to make his concern a legal monopoly in the frozen death field. Voting on the bill is due shortly and Barron's needling of him is dangerous to his success. This soon develops into an allout fight for dominance between the two men. Howards manages to enlist the help of Sara, the estranged but still beloved wife of Barron. He sends her back to Barron to persuade him to lay off. But when she finds evidence of the old crusader in Barron still, she again falls under his spell. Meantime, the Republican Party recognizes it has no chance in the next election and seeks a coalition with the leader of the radical S.J.C. Lukas Greene, who controls the radicals, is the black governor of Mississippi and an old friend of Barron. Then at his prompting, the coalition offers nomination for the Presidency to Barron, since he seems the only one capable of fighting Howards' political control. Howards counters with an offer of immortality. He has been using his funds to pay for research that will let him live forever, and success has just been achieved. He promises the treatment to Barron and Sara. Barron realizes there is a concealed price, though he has no idea of how horrible it is. He decides to force Howards' hand in hopes of learning what is behind the offer. T his is an extremely strong situation around which to build drama. Throughout most of the book, Spinrad pulls it off, though he falters briefly in one episode. There Howards is confronted with an emotional accusation from a woman whose dying father can't afford freezing. Howards should have found some excuse for a noble gesture to win the viewer's sympathy; his failure to do so makes him seem too much of a patsy. If he can't handle this, how did he fight to the top in a tough world, anyhow? Nevertheless, the first threequarters of the book continues to build. Genuine passion and tension are developed during the several interview programs where Barron and Howards battle just below the awareness of the public. The elements of the struggle are made believable and the complexity of Barron's character is used with fine insight. Then the last part of the book runs into too many encounters where one character acts like a patsy. Barron puts himself in Howards' headquarters, doing so even though he knows Howard has something extremely unpleasant set up for him there. Sara's last gesture comes during an acid trip, not from her natural response to the situation; and Barron's decision is then made less from inner conviction than because of her act. Howards proves a pushover for the right nudge. His paranoia was established before. But for a hard man to crack so easily to pressure lets down much of the hightension realism of the earlier parts. There are a couple of minor but irritating flaws in the attitudes of the characters throughout, however. Spinrad's women are much less convincing than his men but usually this doesn't matter in this book. For example, it's a bit hard to accept their all being thrown into an orgiastic frenzy at the idea of a man wielding power. First it is the secretary, perhaps -- but hardly both she and Sara. It's also surprising that nobody in the novel seems to have any doubt about immortality's being ultimately desirable at any price. History is full of men who gave up what they believed to be the immortality of their soul in heaven for a few years of power. And men still commit suicide, rejecting even their normal span. IF Still, if Spinrad had thought out his final situations and the last encounter as well as he did the earlier developments, this would have been a splendid book. As it is, it adds up to an interesting one -- and perhaps even a good one -- but no more. I T would never have been a great science-fiction novel, however. Despite the immortality trappings, this is simply no more science fiction than were some of Alan Drury's books. This is a mainstream novel with a few science-f iction touches . The world of Jack Barron is basically the world of today. His studio scenes are true and convincing against my own experience with somewhat similar situations -- but they are true for today. On the other hand, his black state capitol is described in more detail -- but it doesn't feel lived in until it is filled in with scenes from today's ghetto streets. His New York City Bleeker Street is the one I traveled last Friday. The technology is early spaceof discovering a new medical marvel. Pot and acid are legal, but with no social appreciable difference. The major political change is the radical third party centering around the blacks and the New Left -- but we get only vague hints of other effects from racial and ideological upheavals. Even the slang has remained what's happening in #, after twenty years, though nothing alters so fast as the current "in" jargon. Here we're faced with an uptight cat trying to dig that it's the nitty-gritty before he splits. It ain't groovy, man! Even if Barron learned the slang in Berkeley, this is #; he can't have avoided dropping old expressions and adding new ones. It's a mainstream trick when the facts of a novel can't fit into the here-and-now to suppose the necessary extra elements and differences and lay things in a sort of timeless tomorrow. But in science fiction we like to have all this thought out in detail. It's the way the changes fit together to form a new and interesting future milieu that fascinates us with the future. A s AN example, when Howards finds he's immortal, he must also realize that this only applies if no accident kills him. With his fixation on enduring forever, a science-fiction story would make sure he avoided risks. Yet he seems unaware of this as hp flies to meet Barron. This is probably all right for mainstream readers who don't do much thinking about immortality; but science-fiction readers have seen too many other stories where such details are considered to overlook the inconsistency here. In an article, Spinrad discussed a "new" method of punctuation that enabled him to make the reader go fast or slow as the writer chose. This, of course, is what normal punctuation does when handled properly. But the "new" method seemed to consist mostly of omitting commas. If it had any effect, it was only to slow the reading of all passages. The style has also come up for considerable discussion. It is different from most science-fiction stories but it's hardly a great innovation. It often seems inadequately controlled, but it's within the normal variation of the innerdialogue, stream-of-consciousness writing style for intensely subjective novels. Hume and others of the Paris Review clique were using it in a very similar way at least fifteen years ago. Again, while it may be odd in science fiction, it is well chosen for the mainstream. This book shows a remarkable growth of Spinrad as a writer. His earlier work gave little evidence of the sustained passion so strong in the first part of this novel. It's a pity, therefore, that the manuscript didn't fall into the hands of a sympathetic but critical editor who could overcome the false notion that a writer's words are too precious to change. Artistic integrity only begins with doing one's best; it should go on to an eagerness to discover ways of improving from anyone who can help and thus making sure that the result really is the best possible. In the hands of an understanding editor this could have become a major mainstream novel. It would be a natural for the movies then and it would be no less interesting to the science-fiction audience. T he history of The Left Hand of Darkness by Ursula K. LeGuin (Ace, #) is different from that of Spinrad's book. There was absolutely no advance publicity. Nobody discussed the book before its release and Mrs. LeGuin has partaken in no provocative writing for the fan magazines. Apparently she simply wrote it and sent it in. Ace bought it and published it as one of the Science-Fiction Specials. Only the mouth-to-mouth advertising of contented readers began to bring it the attention it deserves. This is a quietly passionate story about sex and love. But. it is a different kind of "book about sex" from what the term implies. There isn't an overt scene of sex in the whole book or a word that anyone could object to. The sex here involves a race of human beings on another world where each individual is both male and female. The interest is then both psychological and sociological; it is the effect of such a development IF that is studied, not the rutting and gratification of the individual's sexuality. At a deeper level, is an examination of love that is not related to sexuality or romance. This is a love between individuals that can disregard malness or femaleness. But it is none of the bland "love thy neighbor" stuff usually preached; this is a hard, real and active relationship. Genly Ai is sent to Winter, a planet where the ice age is at its peak and where most of the land is covered by a great glacier. His job is to win the planet to acceptance of membership in a sort of interstellar union, for which he can offer no tangible rewards. He has only his wits and training to aid him. There is no invasion force behind him. If he dies or is killed another envoy will be sent later. He finds the world broken into different nations. Karhide is a kingdom of village chiefs; rather loose and highly individualistic. Orgoreyn is a syndic, with almost every action governed from a central Committee. In both, there is something called shifgrethor, a conduct related to "face" saving but varying slightly from each other. Ai finds it difficult to understand, just as they have trouble understanding him. H IS cause is taken up by Estraven, a noble of Karhide. As a result, Estraven is exiled to Orgoreyn. War is unknown on Winter, but the two countries are in the process of inventing it. Estraven hopes Ai's "union" will help prevent this. When Ai is interned in an Orgoreyn labor camp, Estraven rescues him. They still cannot fully trust or understand each other but they must somehow reach Estraven's native section of Karhide to send out a message that will bring evidence to convince the king to accept the union. After that, the war can perhaps be stopped. Their only escape from Orgoreyn lies across the great glacier in the middle of Winter. This means a trip of a thousand miles on foot, with only the supplies they can carry, through territory nearly as hostile as Earth's Antarctica. To make such a desperate trek, they must rely completely on each other, even though neither can yet fully trust his companion. The story is centered around that trip and what happens to Estraven and Ai during it -- two men completely unlike in birthworld, culture or even in their physical form. It makes for a good adventure story but the book is far more than that. Every element is worked out in fine detail and then dovetailed skillfully into every other element. The background of Winter is a strange mixture of the familiar and the alien. (I'm told this resembles Islandia; I wouldn't know nor care, since this is only one factor among many here.) Even the misty union of the stars in the distant background takes on importance and becomes a fascinating and novel concept. When I finished the book, I put it down with affection and respect. And the next morning at breakfast I picked it up to check one small detail at the beginning, only to read through the whole book again. It was even better the second time, too! It's a difficult book to review. But unless a better one comes along this year -- which I don't expect -- I'll make my real review of it by nominating it next year for a Hugo.  Coming in next month's IF Keith Laumer's powerful new serial, pitting Man against Galactic forces at once beyond him -- and within his reach! Frank Herbert's exciting new novelette about an Earth so sane -- it could only go mad! IF by Alexis N, Tsvetilcov T he posthumous glory of Konstantin Eduardovich Tsiolkovsky (K.E.T.), the great Russian pioneer in rocketry, came to Western Europe and the U.S.A. only after the successful launching of the first Sputnik in a desert of the Middle Asia -- that is, after October #, #. The world now knows the astronautic works of K.E.T. He wrote and published in Kaluga, Russia. His projects and scientific articles concerned hydrodynamics and aerodynamics, works in cosmic biology (astrobiology, as he named it) and the theory of cosmic rockets. The most important and best known were his works in rocketry, which he began in #. His principal work. Exploration of Space by Means of Reactive Apparatus, was published for the first time in #. I knew K.E.T. personally for a few years and I had a correspondence with him up to the end of his life in #, at the age of #. After the death of K.E.T., all his manuscripts were brought to Moscow and placed somewhere in the governmental archives. In the old K.E.T. house, Bol'shaya Korovinskaya, No. #, Kaluga, a museum bearing his name was soon organized, filled with his personal things of lesser importance. In articles about K.E.T., authors usually mention only his scientific-technical works and his science-fiction novels. However, there exists also a series of his brochures buried, perhaps forever, in the official archives. Rare samples of those works, I am sure, are still in possession of a few persons in Russia. Those are his philosophical works, regarded officially as anti-materialistic and therefore non-permissible. In spite of this, they are sometimes listed in his bibliography without comment. To the same category belongs also his correspondence -- the letters received by K.E.T. were confiscated by the same governmental office in Moscow. K.E.T. started his philosophical writings in #. The first of this series was the booklet Nirvana, published in Kaluga. philosophy of K.E.T., always officially suppressed? It was mainly a kind of nature-philosophy directed toward the ontological and ethical problems. K.E.T. usually did not write about any religion, a subject considered outmoded and even dangerous officially. The ethics, evidently, he did not connect with any religious teaching. 'The ethical principles are the result of evolutionary processes only," he said. The traces of this idea can be seen in his The Scientific Ethics and in the Monism of the Universe, Ethics, he thought, inevitably develop during the process of evolution of earthly and non-earthly intelligent beings. We do not need to fear the visits of non-earthly intelligent humanoids, who arc older in their evolution than we are on our Earth. They have not yet appeared on our planet only because we are not prepared to meet them as friends and as the wise people. Such an appearance of other "intellectofers" would create panic in our society. We have first to send them out friendly signals and let them know a little more about us. In his brochures, especially in The Will of the Universe and the Unknown Intelligent Forces (#), K.E.T. mentioned two of the "meditative and inspiring illusions" he saw. Generally, K.E.T. avoided any mystical speculations. However, he lived an inner life unknown to anyone else. K.E.T. dreamed since his poor childhood about stars, interstellar flights, and later, about his rockets. There was nothing more beautiful, exalting or more important for him. In his philosophy first came the cosmogonic and cosmonautic ideas. He did not think very much about such cardinal physiconietaphysical categories as Space and Time. They were for him just simple Newtonian realities, the media for floating of Energy, and Matter in them. Being a good mathematician, he understood the ideas of Einstein. However, he felt intuitively something wrong in the Einsteinian idea of the limiting velocity of light; he denied also the Riemann-Einsteinian finiteness of the space curvature. He was inclined more to the Lobachevskian point of view: that space is curved; however, infinite. Even in the classicial physics he fought against the teaching about Entropy, or the Thermal Death, of the Universe. He believed in the reversible processes in Nature. IF "Science cannot avoid a strange path," K.E.T. had often said, "and sometimes such a path is more fruitful than the direct one." K .E.T. was sure that most of the stars, their planets and the inhabitants of those planets are already in a later stage than our Sun, Earth, and ourselves. He wrote that the interstellar flights and colonization of distant worlds are the most common events in the Universe; only a few civilizations, such as ours, have not yet advanced to that stage. Because of colonization, many stellar systems, especially those around the center of our Galaxy, i.e., in the space beyond the constellation Scorpio, are possibly united already under one administration. K.E.T. thought that extremely different forms of life might exist on other worlds, including living hydrogen. On the highest levels of evolution, he said, there can be also some bodiless, immaterial forms of life: islands of a pure mind or consciousness living in empty space. The union, the sum total of the whole world consciousness in the Will and Cause of the Universe. Such was his own religion, masked strongly by the concepts of naturalism. Most of the dearest ideas of K.E.T. are described in his Monism of the Universe -- a suppressed work which had gained, however, a great deal of underground popularity. This small book ends with eight theses, almost each one beginning with the words, 'Razve mozhmo somny e V a t s y a ,... " ' , meaning 'Can one doubt..." These "R.M.S." theses sum up the ideas of the booklet. I present here a translation of them: "#. R.M.S. that the innumerable multitude of planets are illuminated by their suns? "#. R.M.S. that on (at least) one of those planets life reached such might and perfection that we humans cannot imagine it. That might permit them (i.e., unearthly humanoids) to overcome the force of gravity and to colonize the Universe? "#. As a result, there does exist the spreading of perfection and dominance of mind in the Cosmos. "#. R.M.S. that this happened already infinitely long ago, and this is the normal and permanent state of the Universe? The spontaneous natural generation and evolution, with all its sufferings, is a rare exception. "#. R.M.S. that the atoms take part in conscious life, when they reach the brain or its equivalent? They reflect the state of life, however, without any permanent impressions. "#. R.M.S. that the world of matter is mixing up and periodically changing its forms; and the atom, an infinite number of times after the immense intervals of time, takes part in the processes of life? "#. R.M.S that the period of the stay of the atom in inorganic matter passes as a deep swoon, and such time does not exist for the atom? "#. R.M.S. that all periods of life flow together into a single, permanent, conscious, beatific and infinite stream of life?" S uch were the "R.M.S." theses by K.E. Tsiolkovsky. Later he wrote an additional article in the Monism of the Universe -- the Migration of the Atom, which bore the following thesis: Beside the insensible sojourn of atoms in the inorganic world, they have their hosts in the form of plants, animals and men. The animals, whose life is imperfect, meaningless, miserable, full with pain and suffering, must and will completely disappear in the future, and the atoms will wander only in the plants and humans. Life in the plant is almost equal to non-existence, since it is insensible. The superior beings, and the humans in the future, like good gardeners, will weed out lower animal species, harmful bacteria and valueless plants, except for laboratory samples. "Individuals die," K.E.T. said. "However, the total amount of living matter increases. We can imagine a spherical organism with the cycles of physiological processes closed completely i n themselves. Such an organism will be immortal and photosynthetic (with some kind of chloroor quanto-phyll in it) and it can develop even a higher consciousness..." Such was a "strong wine made by K.E. Tsiolkovsky in Kaluga," as one of his correspondents said. K.E.T. planned to make some corrections in his Monism of the Universe, but did not find time to do so. The main problems of his life lay in astronautics, and his cosmic philosophy was an additional, however important, product of his broad and original mind.  IF (Continued from page #) Moon. Dr. Menzel was president of the parent body. Commission # -- The Moon and the Planets, when it was first formed in #. These four men will decide -- or will have decided by the time you read this -- by what names future generations shall know the craters on the far side of the moon. Craters seen only -- out of all tronauts of Apollo #: Air Force Col. Thomas P. Stafford, Comdrs. Eugene A. Cernan and John W. Young of the Navy. The I.A.U. Working Group's choices will become official when approved by the entire body of the I.A.U. -- # top astronomers representing every nation on Earth and supported by every government -- when it meets in Brighton, England, in #. By tradition most of the farside craters will be named after deceased scientists. The Russians may have established another precedent, that of naming some moonmarks for memorable science-fiction writers, by calling one of "their" craters Jules Verne. Dr. Menzel -- besides being among Earth's leading astronomers -- is an accomplished and executed Martians will appear in full and vibrant color on the cover of September Galaxy -- IFs companion magazine. Others will be exhibited in early July -- by request -- at the International Scientific Conference in Liege, Belgium. Still others have long and quietly been collectors' items among top space scientists. We plan to make enlarged color September ' cover Martians available to readers of IF and quire original Martians may write to Dr. Menzel in care of either magazine. We are also hoping soon to arrange an exhibit of Menzel's Martians in New York City. For whoever may question the role of science fiction in the molding of men and scientists -- Dr. Menzel is a starswinger from far back. He put himself through graduate school a t Princeton by writing science fiction stories and popular science articles for Hugo Gernsback. IF's readers, and its editor, will undoubtably be subjected to a good deal of moonwash regarding the nonexistence of Moonworms once our astronauts stand on Earth's sole satellite. We, too, may give lip service to popular skepticism. But Dr. Menzel's blue eyes were incredibly clear and enormously candid as he told us about Moonworms -- and he towers white-maned to the stars. And IF is the magazine of infinite Alternatives. Readers write -- and wrong! Dear Editor: You wouldn't believe the rumors rife with stress, plight and frantic speculation since the announcement that Someone had purchased Galaxy and If, and that our noble Pohl, around whom many s-f stars have gladly turned, was leaving. As contributor, reader and an officer of Science Fiction Writers of America, my apprehensions rise to the third power. #. Will Galaxy and If continue to publish the broad spectrum of science fiction? Both tales of wonder and tales to ponder have coexisted until now. To my mind there should be no cut-and-dried definition of what must be science fiction, this form and no other! A good story, well written, is a good story! #. Will Galaxy and If continue to introduce new authors -- for competition is as important to the writer as it is stimulating for the reader -- and furthermore swells the ranks of ing in the field. #. Can anything be done through the new owner about the sorry state of distribution? When our friends, relatives and fans try to buy copies on the newsstand and can't, it irketh and looseth prospective customers? #. Will something be done about the typesetters who either do not read English or what they are setting and bolix up things until the astonished author squirms rapidly into the nearest "o" and pulls the circle out. #. Most important of all, what kind of a guy is this new editor Ejler Jakobsson? He edited Super Science back when, but -- despite my advanced years and silver hair -- it was before my time. #. How open to author-editor discussion is he? Must I follow his "line"? Is he apt to pull whole sections of my patiently-constructed and word-weighed stories without asking my permission? I am really a most tractable author and quite amenable to discussion, responding amiably to editorial suggestion, but preferring to be consulted! #. Is there any truth to the horrible rumors that story payments will be reduced -- which will definitely reduce the number of writers able to continue producing in the field? #. Are other titles in the GalaxyIf combine to be resurrected? I hope this one is true because it will make everyone much happeir with more good stories to write and read. #. Will there still be provocative covers for which writers will produce new stories? #. Will the features that enliven the magazines continue? #. What is the editorial climate on "taboos"? #. and... whal will be so rare as a Galaxy in June? -- Anne Hi, Anne. By now weve met and share new secrets. To dear up the power apprehensions I -- # and # -- #. As to number # -- 'twas not ere your time. Just something you missed. We all have these regrets. # -- your words shall be mine at usual or better rates. Please? # -- horrible rumors are untrue but have you taken a good look at reality lately? II -- whats taboo? # -- an IF this June. IF If you give up cigarettes, you might gain a few pounds. (And also a few years.) The plain, unfiltered fact is that people who smoke cigarettes get lung cancer a I lot more frequently than nonsmokers. And lung cancer can finish you. Before your time. We'd rather have you stay alive and in good health. Because even if you do gain a few pounds, you'll have the time to take them off. american cancer society # The Science Fiction Book Chib invites you to take Any # books AH Including, if you wish, with trial membership #: A  Arthur C. Clarke  Hunting an alien  ' "presence" in the  universe, # men and a f computergonepsychoI tic stumble upon the incredible secret of mankind's birth -- only to trigger the Pub. ed.#f cosmit "booby-trap" that could spell its death. A controversial best-seller by the most acclaimed science fiction writer of our era. #: A Space Odyssey batt-salling noval and o word-winning cinamo tpoctocwlar '  Science Fiction has grown up. Have you kept up?  A new literary genre has come of age -- your age. Mature. Sophisticated. Provocative. And respected. You are invited to explore it now under an amazing trial  offer. Take any # volumes on this page (worth up to # in original publishers' editions) for only I with membership. "New club selections will be described to # # you in advance each month. Choose from new works of Pub ed # # Action -- and fact -- by such acclaimed authors as Ray Bradbury, Rod Serling, Isaac Asimov, Arthur Clarke, Robert . k... AkHeinlein and others. All volumes are full-length, hardt-seiier by the bound -- and uncut. Though they sell for as much as #, iier OT our era. # # nd more in their original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping. (You may choose books during the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #. ' Please accept my application for membership and rush me ' I the # books whose numbers I have circied beiow. Biii me oniy I #, pius shipping and handling, for all #. Then, every  I month, send me the Club's free I I bulletin, "Things to Come", which ' I describes coming selections. For Eh # I each book I accept. I will pay only ?"' "umbers of  #. plus shipping and handling, the # books you want. I unless I take an extra-value selecitnA eno nin I I tlon at a higher price. I need take V? Vo ' I only four books within the coming "IB # BI# . I year and may resign at any time # # # I I thereafter. # # # I ' delighted with my introductory I  package, I may return it in # I days to cancel membership. I Rule Golden, The Dying Man A Nat' ural State-all comI plete. Pub. ed. #  #. HawksbIU StaI tlon, by Robert SilI verberg. A group of . # I St century revolutionaries are I #-S# I I I If under #, parent must sign here. (Offer good in U.S.A. only) I #. The Past Throngh Tomorrow: "Future History" Stories, by Robert A. Heinlein. Pub. ed. # #. Twice # by Ray Bradbury. Fourty-four stories by the Grand Master of science Action. Pub. ed. # #. Cbocky by John Wyndham. Alien powers "possess" small boy in shocker from author of "Day of the Triffids". #. October the First is Too Late, by Fred Hoyle. Solar beams play havoc with time on earth. Iib. ed. #.M #. Kiner Thing by Kate Wilhelm. A scientist in the #rd century develops a robot with a laser eye. Pub. ed. # #. A Treasury of Great Science Fiction. #-volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # #. Asimov's Mysteries by Isaac Asimov. # love#. Dangerous Visions. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon, Anderson, others. Pub. ed. # Printed m  The Seeds of Gonyl i The Mind Bomb The First .Traces, of Life Chapdelaine  Anthony  Malzberg  Del Rey  others The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Rey, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: For Your Inf ormation -- Willy Ley, Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IP's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room, controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and where the editors, writers and artists blast back. #   Vol. #, No. # fer Jakobsson, Editor Proderik Pohh Editor Emeritus Willy Ley, Science Editor Lester del key. Feature Editor JudyLynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Franc L, koggeri. Art Director L. C. Murphy, Circulation Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director StItlAl IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #c per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright  # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Sirius, the Dog Star, this morning rose with the Earth's sun and I am rolling at eighty mph, one hand on the wheel, the other holding the mike and this is what I am saying. This morning marks an emergence. Not a rebirth; none of us is given that kind of second chance. Today does not pause for rebirths. It simply changes. Sirius tonight will set with the sun -- but on an Earth slightly altered. I am on my way to tell Baby Machine that it is not yet ready for the Worlds of IF. Alternatives must take over. Baby Machine stands about seven feet tall, is all head and gaping stomach, and men live by it. It controls other machines men once operated and the men who understood those are gone. The men left are survivors of an era when machines did not think and they stand around, apprehensively eyeing the door through which their predecessors -- the men who could think -- passed and never returned. The survivors speak softly. Dont get too close to the door... Don't think... Baby Machine does all the thinking for the giant, leftover, mechanical typesetting dinosaurs of an earlier time who no longer respond to the men who do not understand them but who depend on them for a livelihood. Baby Machine, a computer, issues their orders and when Baby speaks the ancient, intricate monsters thunder to ghostly life, spewing out words. They emerge enormously mangled, elongated, mutilated, inane, for Baby Machine -- being a Baby, you understand -- has no memory banks. It has only a brain and a Program. It does its best for the men who live by it. But its best is not good enough for men who are not afraid of the door. The New England mountains and the road ahead are flooded with sunlight and alternatives and I am on a Serius errand, if you will forgive the pun. Baby is a Holy Yoke to the helpless humans who live by it -- and the Words of IF are clamoring for release. And IF is the magazine of Alternatives that lie beyond the door Baby Machine's people are afraid to approach. Too much responsibility, see? I reach the door and use it to enter. I speak to the men who depend on Baby. I ask them for the Words of IF. Communication is difficult. The sun and Sirius are setting by the time Baby lifts the Yoke. I use the door to go out. With me are these Words of IF. In our tomorrows -- yours and mine -- is an Adult Machine that remembers, that speaks to its mechanical contemporaries and to humans who understand it and who are not afraid of the door. To put it plainly, you and Galaxy, Worlds of IF, Worlds of Tomorrows and Fantasy are changing to a modern printer with this issue of the magazine of Alternatives. Much remains to be done. But how do you like the emergent new look? SVkMCi fftOM mte. The Dark Continents of Your MM maintain energy enthusiasm and the will to do? Do your personality and power of accomplishment ebb and flow -- like a stream controlled by some unseen valve? Deep within you are minute organisms. From their function spring your emotions. They govern your creative ideas and moods -- yes, even your enjoyment of life. Once they were thought to be the mysterious seat of the soul -- and to be left unexplored. Now cast aside superstition and learn to direct intelligently these powers of self. Let the Rosicruclans, an age-old fraternity of thinking men and women (not a religion), point out how you may fashion life as you want it -- by making the fullest use of these little-understood nat ural faculties which you possess. This is a challenge to make the most of your heritage as a human. Write for the Free Book, "The Mastery of Life," Address: jScribe C.M.P. San Jose, California #I # U.S.A. Scribe: C.M.P. San Jose, California #, U.S.A. Please send copy of booklet, "The Mastery of Ijfe" which I shall read as directed. Name Address City State  Please Include Your Zip Code Infinitely wise and endlessly good, the machine created a world so sane that it could only go madi year. The Being Machine had reduced many of its activities and sped up its cooling system. This season is called hot and desolate, the Machine recorded. People must be entertained in such a season ,... Shortly after noon it noted that IL LL Lhl not many people were in the streets except for a few tourists who carried, slung around their necks, full-sense recorders. The tourists perspired heavily. Some loc residents, those not busy with the labors of survival, peered occasionally from behind insulated windows or stood shaded in the screen fields of their doorways. They seemed to float in muddy seclusion beneath the lemonade sky The nature of the season and the environment crept through the Machine. It began sending out the flow of symbols which guarded the gateway to imagination and consciousness. The symbols were many and they flowed outward like silver rivers, carrying ideas from one time-place to another across a long span of existence. Presently, as the sun slipped halfway toward the moment when it would levy darkness, the Being Machine began to build a tower. It called the tower palace of stretched across the tower's lower stories in glowing letters taller than a man. At an insulated window across the plaza a man called Wheat watched the tower go up. He could hear the shuttle moving in his wife's loom and he felt torn by watch the thought spasms in his mind. He watched the tower instead, "The damn thing's at it again," he said. "It's that time of year," his wife agreed, not looking up from the design she was weaving. The design looked like a cage of yellow spikes within a wreath of cascading orange roses. Wheat thought for a few minutes about the subterranean vastness men had measured out, defining the limits of the Being Machine. There must be caverns down there. Wheat thought. Endlessly nocturnal spiral corridors where no rain ever fell. Wheat liked to imagine the Being Machine this way, although there existed no record of any man's having entered the ventilators or surface extrusions by which "the Machine made itself known. "If that damn machine weren't so disgusting -- it'd be funny," Wheat said. "I'm much more interested in problem solving," his wife said. "That's why I took up design. Do you suppose anyone will try to stop it this time?" "First, we'd have to figure out what it is," Wheat said. "And the only records which could show us that are inside there." "What's it doing?" his wife asked. "Building something. Calls it a palace but it's going up pretty high. Must be twenty stories already." His wife paused to readjust If the harness of her loom. She could see the way this conversation was going and it dismayed her. The slanting sun cast Wheat's shadow into the room and the black shape of it stretched out there on the floor made her want to run away. At times such as these she hated the Machine for pairing her with Wheat. "I keep wondering what it'll take away from us this time," she said. through the window, awed by the speed with which the tower was rising. The rays of the setting sun painted streaks of orange on the tower surface. He was the standard human male, this Wheat, but old. He had a face like a vein-leaf cabbage, wrinkles overlapping wrinkles. He stood about two meters tall, as did all the other adults of the world, and his skin was that universal olive-tan, his hair dark and eyes to match. His wife, although bent from years at the loom, looked remarkably like him. Both wore their hair long, tied at the neck with strips of blue flashcloth. Sacklike garments of the same material covered their bodies from neck to ankles. "It's frustrating," Wheat said. For a while the Being Machine conducted an internal thoughtplay in the language of the KersanPueblo, exploring the subtle morphemes which recorded all actions now being undertaken as merely hearsay. Culture, the Machine recorded, speaking only for its internal sensors but using several vocalizers and varied tonal modes. Culture -- culture -- culture -- The word fed on thought-nourishment and ignited a new train of concepts. A new Law of Culture must be homogenized immediately. It will be codified with the usual enforcements and will require precise efforts of exactness in its expression, , , Wheat's window looked south past the district of the Machine and across an olive orchard that ran right up to a cliff above the sea. The sky was heavy above the sea and owed with old sunset colors. "There's a new law," Wheat said. "How do you know?" his wife asked. "I know. I just know." His wife felt like crying. The same old pattern. Always the same. "The new law says I must juggle many ideas simultaneously in my mind," Wheat said. "I must develop my talents. I must contribute to human culture." His wife looked up from her weaving, sighed. "I don't know how you do it," she said. "You're drunk." "But there's a law that -- " "There's no such law!" She took a moment to calm herself. "Go to bed, you old fool. I'll summon a medic with a potion to restore your senses." "There was a time," Wheat said, "when you didn't think of medics when you thought of bed." He stepped back from the window, stared at the cracked wall behind his wife's loom, then looked out at the sun-yellowed olive orchard and the blue-green sea. He thought the sea was ugly but the crack on the wall suggested a beautiful design for his wife to weave on her loom. He formed the pattern of the design in his mind -- golden scales on cascades of black. Mirror memories of his own wrinkled face superceded the pattern in his mind. That was always the way when he tried to think freely. Ideas became fixed in ebony cement. "I will make a golden mask," he said. "It will be etched with black veins and it will make me beautiful." "There's no more gold in the entire ' world, you old fool." His wife sneered. "Gold's only a word in books. What did you drink last night?" "I had a letter in my pocket from Central Solidarity," he said, "but someone stole it. I complained to the Machine but it wouldn't believe me. It made me stop and sit down by a scaly post. down by the water there, and re"I don't know what it is you use to make you drunk," she complained, "but I wish you'd leave it alone. Life would be much simpler." "I sat under a balcony," the man said. The Being Machine listened for a time to the clacking of the human-operated typers in the offices of Central Solidarity. As usual it translated the tiny differences of key touch into their corresponding symbols. The messages were quite ordinary. One asked the cooperation of a neighboring Centrality in the relocation of a cemetery, a move required because the Machine had extruded a new ventilator into the area. Another ordered forty containers of watermelons from Regional Provender. Still another, for distribution to all Centralities, complained that tourists were becoming too numerous in Palos and were disturbing the local tranquility. The Palace of Palos Culture will be programmed for a small increase in discontent, the Machine ordered. This accorded with the Law of the Great Cultural Discovery. Discontent brought readiness for adventure, made men live near the heights of their powers. They would not live dangerously but their lives would have the appearance of danger. IF Bureaucracy will end, the Machine directed, and the typers will jail silent... These concepts, part of the Machine's Prime Law, had submitted to comparative repetition innumerable times. Now the Machine recorded that (me of Central Solidarity's typers in Palos was writing a love letter on official stationery, on duty time -- and that a dignitary at Central Provender in the Centrality of Asius had sequestered a basket of fresh apples for his own use. These items fitted the interpretation of "good signs." "It's an artificial intelligence of some kind," Wheat's wife said. She had left her loom to stand beside Wheat and watch the tower grow. "We know that much. Everybody says it." "But how does it think?" Wheat asked. "Does it have linear thoughts? Does it think #-#-# -- a-b-c-d? Is it some (xld clock ticking away under the earth?" "It could be a marble rattling around in a box," his wife said. "What?" "You know -- open the box at different times and you might find the marble almost anywhere inside the box." "But who made the marble rattle into our world?" Wheat asked. "That's the question. Who told it, 'Make us one of those!'?" He pointed to the tower which now st(xx more than one hundred stories above the plaza. It was a structure of glistening orange in the evening light, ribbed vertically with deep black lines, windowless, terrifying and absurd. Wheat felt that the tower accused him of some profound sin. "Perhaps it incorporates its own end," his wife suggested. Aeat shook his head, not denying what she had said, but wishing for silence in which to think. Sharply glittering metallic devices could be glimpsed at the top of the tower where it continued to rise. How high was it going? Already, the tower must be the highest artifi(nal structure men had ever seen. paused in the plaza to record the tower. They iid not appear excited by it, merely (nirious in a polite way. Here was a thing to carry home and replay for friends. It built a tower one day while we were there. Notice the sign: that amusing? After reviewing the matter to the extent of its data, the Being Machine found no path open for intrcxlucing culture into human society. It made the final comparatives in Kersan-Pueblo re-, cording that the described action must be internal, experienced only by the speaker. Humans could not acquire the mlture facility from the outside or by hearsay. The need for new decisions dictated that the tower had risen high enough. The Being Machine capped its construction with a golden pyramid three hundred cubits on a side, measuring by the Judean cubit. The dimensions were compared and recorded. The tower was not the tallest in history but greater than the newmen had ever seen. Its effect would be interesting to observe, according to the interest-factor equations with which the Machine was equipped. At the apex of the pyramid the Machine installed a sensor excitation device, a simple system of plasma optics. It was designed to write with a flaming torch on the interface between stratosphere and troposphere. The Being Machine, occupied with selecting a new label for the tower, with analyzing the dreams in all the humans sleeping at that moment, and with constructing the historic analogies by which it amused its charges, wrote selected thouts on the sky. The books of Daniel and Genesis are as good as anything of Freud on dream analysis ,... The words blazed across fifty kilometers of the heavens, dancing and flaring at their edges. Much later they were the direct source of a new religion proclaimed by a psychotic in a village at the edge of the phenomenon. The value of adversity is to make gardens out of wastelands, the Machine wrote. A thing may be thought of only as related to certain conditions ,... Analyzing the dreams, the Machine employed the concepts of libido, psychic energy and human experience of death. Death, according to the Machine's comparatives, meant the end of libido energy, a non-scientific idea because it postulated a destruction of deduct energy, defying several established laws in the process. Any other comparison required belief in the soul and god(s). The considerations were not assisted by postulating a temporary libido. There must be a false idea sys tern here, The Being Machine recMded. Somehow the symbol screen through which it sifted reality had gone out of phase with the universe. It searched through its languages and comparison systems for new grooves in which to function. No closer symbol approach to phenomena revealed itself. Lack of proper validity forms inhibited numerous channels through which it regulated human affairs. Thought ignitions went out from the Machine incompletely formed. munications center;" Wheat said. IF He stood at his window, looking out past the tower to where the sun was settling toward the sea horizon. The sea had become beautiful in his eyes and the cracked walls of his home were ugly. His wife, old and bentbacked, was ugly, too. She had lit a lamp for her work and she made ugly movements at her loom. Wheat felt emotion going to his head like a white storm. "There are too many gaps in our knowledge of the universe," he said. "You're babblins:, old man," his wife said. "I wish you would not go out and get yourself drunk every night." "I find myself cast in a curious role," Wheat said, ignoring her ugly comment. "I must show men to themselves. We men of Palos have never understood ourselves. And if we here at the heart of the Machine cannot understand ourselves, no human can." "Don't come around begging me for money tonight," his wife said. "I'll ask Central Solidarity for an appropriation," Wheat said. a start. We'll begin by building an Institute of Palos Communication. Later, we can open branches in -- " "The Machine won't let you build anything, old fool!" The Being Machine decided to open its tower immediately, calling it, Institute of Palos CommunU cation. The directives went out for the tower to begin its functions slowly, not putting undue strain on the emotions and intellect of the audience. Pressure would be increased only when people began asking questions about the authority of god(s) and about the grounds of moral and spiritual life. The trouble over validity forms made the task difficult. But all guiding of humans must begin with the people of Palos. With its plasma optics system the Machine wrote on the sky. Refined communication requires a carefully constructed conscience, allowing people to disobey the laws of gods) only by payment of certain suffering and pangs. People must know what is required of them before they disobey... The message was so long that the blazing light of it outshone an orange glow. The Being Machine compared its present actions with the Prime Law, noting the prediction that one day humans would stop running from the enemies within and would see themselves as they really were -- beaytiful and tall, giants in the universe, capable of holding the stars in the palms of their hands. "I've spent my whole life watchII ing that machine and I still don't know what its specialty is," Wheat said. "Think of what that damn thing has taken away from us in all the -- " "It was put here to punish us," his wife said. "That's nonsense." "Somebody built it for a purpose, though." "How do we know that? Why couldn't it be purposeless?" "It's killed people, you know," she said. "There has to be some "Maybe it's just meant to correct us, not punish," he said. "You know you don't kill people to correct them." "But we haven't done anything." "You don't know that." "What you're suggesting wouldn't be reasonable or just." "Hah!" "Lxx)k," Wheat said pointing across the plaza. The Machine had changed the glowing label on its lower level. Now, the glittering letters spelled "What's it doing now?" Wheat's wife asked. He told her about the new sign. "It listens," she said. "It listens to everything we do. It's playing a joke on you now. It does that sort of thing, you know." Wheat shook his head from side to side. The Machine was writing half-size letters below the new sign. It was a simple message. Twenty thousand cubicles -- no waiting ,... "It's a mind bomb," Wheat muttered. He spoke mechanically, as though the words were being fed into his vocal system from some remote place. "Its meant to break up the stratification of our society." "What stratification?" his wife demanded. "Rich will speak to poor and poor to rich," he said. "What rich?" she asked. "What poor?" "It's an envelope of communication," he said. "It's total sensory stimulation. I must hurry to Central Solidarity and tell them." "You stay right where, you are," his wife ordered, fear in her voice. She thought of what they'd say at Central Solidarity. Another one gone mad... Madness happened to people who lived so close to the Machine's heart. She knew what the tourists said, speaking of the Palos idiosyncrasies. Most of the people of Palos are slightly mad. One can hardly blame them... It was almost dark now, and the Machine wrote bright letters in the sky. You give the credit to Galileo that rightly belongs to Aristarchus of Samos... IF "Who the devil's Galileo?" Wheat asked, staring upward. His wife had crossed the room to stand between Wheat and the door. She started past him at the Hazing words. "Pay no attention to it," she said. "That danm machine seldom makes any sense." "It's going to take something else away from us," Wheat said. "I can feel it." "What's left to take?" she asked. "It took the gold, most of our books. It took away our privacy. It took away our right to choose our own mates. It took our industry and left us nothing but things like that." She pointed to the loom. "There's no sense attacking it," he said. "We know it's impregnaable." "Now you're sounding sensible," his wife said. "But has anyone ever tried talking to it?" Wheat asked. "Don't be a fool. Where are it's ears?" "It must have ears if it spies m us." "But where are they?" 'Twenty thousand cubicles, no waiting," Wheat said. II H e turned, thrust his wife aside, strode out into the night. He felt that his mind was sweeping away debris, flinging him down a passage through the Ballantine beauty of the St. LouisCorv is over (but won't be actually by the time you read this). Never mind. Traditionally, in publishing. September is a good reading month. Summer doldrums are over, the kids are back in school, everyone is thinking in a serious-minded way about the long. hard, intellectual winter ahead. So September is a big. big publishing month. WE are celebrating it with George MacDonald's very kooky is almost as extraordinary as the novel itself is the idea that anything as modern as this was written back in the I#'s by a Scottish (sometime) minister of advanced years. You'll recognize it by the superb Gervasio cover of a man in an attic.  an easy book to read (clearly a bit beyond those mainstream reviewers). This is a jagged, fractionated, panoramic view of overpopulated times to come -- the style itself expressive of the explosive tensions generated by too goddamned many people. The theme is well known to all of us. The handling is very special indeed. Stay with it for # pages and you'll be hooked for another #.  month -- Larry Niven's volume of occurred to us that of all the new young writers, Larry's worlds are probably the most ingeniously specific. The shape of his particular space is very definite, very much his own. Thank whatever gods there may be that he is also a very good writer, so we can all enjoy!  too -- a promotion yet -- although he is our candidate for the author than whom no one needs promotion less; and a peculiar wisp of a anti-Nixon. Not that we're terribly concerned about being in. (We're rational, that's all).  it comes at .# though), plus a couple of non-fiction works perLeona and Robert Rienow. your planet while you can. BB. night. His thoughts were summer lightning. He did not even see his neighbors and the tourists forced to jump aside as he rushed toward the tower, nor did he hear his wife crying in their doorway. The flame with which the Machine wrote on the sky stood motionless, a rounded finger of brightness poised above Palos. The Being Machine recorded Wheat's approach, provided a door for him to enter. Wheat was the first human inside the Machine's protective field for thousands of centuries and the effect could only be described by saying it was as though an extern dream had become internal. Although the Machine did not have dreams in the literal sense, possessing only the reflected dreams of its charges. Wheat found himself in the center of a small room. It appeared to be the inside of a cube about three meters on a side. Walls, floors and ceiling were aglow. For the first time since rushing out of his home Wheat felt fear. There had been a door for him to enter but now there was no door. All of his many years settled on Wheat, leaving his mind threadbare. Presently a flowing blue script wrote words on the wall directly in frcMit of Wheat. Change is desirable. Senses are instruments for reacting to change. Without change the senses atrophy... IF Wheat recovered some of his courage. "What are you. Machine?" he asked. "Why were you built? What is your purpose?" There no longer care any clearly definable ethnic groups in your world... The flowing script reappeared. "What are ethnic groups?" Wheat asked. "Are you an entertainment device?" Words flamed on the wall. Confucius, Leonardo da Vinci, Jesus, Genghis Khan, Julius Caesar, Richard Nixon, Parker Voorhees, Utsana Biloo and Ym Dufy all shared common ancestry,... "I don't understand you," Wheat complained. "Who are these people?" Freud was agoraphobic, Puritans robbed the Indians, Henry Tudor was the actual murderer of the Princes in the Tower, Moses wrote the Ten Commandments... "That sign outside says this is an Institute of Communication," Wheat said. "Why don't you communicate?" This is an exchange of mental events... "This is nonsense," Wheat snapped. His fear was retuminc. There was no door. How could he leave this place? The Machine continued to inform him. Any close alliance between superior and inferior beings must result in mutual hatred. This is often interpreted as repaying friendship with treachery... , "Where's the door?" Wheat asked. "How do I get out of here?" Do you truly believe the sun is a ball of red-hot copper? "That's a stupid question," Wheat accused. Mental events must consist of certain sets of physical events... Wheat felt a venomous spurt of anger. The Machine was inaking fun of him. If it were only another human and vulnerable. He shook his head. Vulnerable to what? He felt that something had dyed his thoughts inwardly and that he had just glimpsed the color. "Do you have sensations and feelings?" Wheat asked. "Are you an intelligent being? Are you alive and conscious?" People often do not understand the difference between neuron impulses and states of consciousness. Most humans occupy low level impulse dimensions without realizing what they lack or suspecting their own potential... Wheat thought he detected a recognizable connection between his questions and the answer, wondered if this could be illusion. He recalled the sound of his own voice in this room. It was like a wind hunting for something that could not be found in such an enclosed place. "Are you supposed to bring us up to our potential?" Wheat asked. What religious admonitions do you heed? Wheat sighed. Just when he thought the Machine was making sense it went nattering off. Do you sneer at ideas of conscience or ethical morality? Do you believe religion is an artificial construction of little use to beings capable of rational analysis? The damn thing was insane. "You're an artifact of some kind" Wheat accused. "Why were you built? What were you supposed to do?" Insanity is the loss of true selfmemory. The insane have lost their locus of accumulation... "You're crazy!" Wheat blared. "You're a crazy machine!" On the other hand, to overcome the theory of self-as-a-symbol is to defeat death... "I want out of here," Wheat said. "Let me out of here." He drew in a deep, chattering breath. There was a cold smell of oil in the room. If the universe were completely homogeneous you would be unable to separate one thing from another. There would be no energy, no thoughts, no symbols, no distinction between the individuals of any order. Sameness can go too far... "What are you?" Wheat screwed. The Prime Law conceives this Being as a thought-envelope. To be implies existence but the terms of a symbol system cannot express the real facts of existence. Words remain fixed and unmoving while everything external continues to change... Wheat shook his head from side to side. He felt his entrapment here as an acute helplessness. He had no tools with which to attack these glowing walls. It was cold, too. How cold it was! His mind was filled with desolation. He heard no natural sounds except his own breathing and the pounding of his heart. A thought-envelope? T his Machine had taken away all the world's gold one day, so it was said. Another day it had denied people the use of combustion engines. It restricted the free movement of families but permitted the wanderings of tourist hordes. Marriage was Machineguided and Machine-limited. Some said it limited conception. The few old books remaining held references to things and actions no longer understood -- surely things the Machine had taken away. "I order you to let me out of here," Wheat said. No words appeared. "Let me out, damn you!" IF The Being Machine remained uncommunicative, occupied with ing Coordinating Relating. I I was a function far removed from human thought. The nerve impulses of an insect were closer to human thought than were the Every interpretation and every system becomes false in the light of a more complete coordination, a core of relative truth, seeking discreet rational foundations and dimensional networks to approximate the impulses commonly called Everyday Experience. Wheat, the Machine observed, was kicking a wall of his cubicle and screaming in a hysterical fashion. Shifting to Time-and-Matter mode, the Machine reduced Wheat to a series of atomic elements, examined his individual existence in these energy expressions. Presently, it reconstituted him as a flowing sequence of moments integrated with the Machine's own impulse systems. All the eternal laws of the past that have been proved temporary inspire caution in a reflexive thinker, Machine plus Wheat thought. What we have been produces what we seem to be... This thought carried positive aspects in which Machine-plusWheat saw profound contradictions. This mode of mentation, the Machine observed, held a deceptive clarity. Sharp limitation gave the illusion erf darity. It was like watching a shadow play which attempted to explcMre the dimensions of a real human life. The emotions were lost. Human gestures were reduced to caricature. All was lost but the illusion. The observer, charmed into belief that life had been clarified, forgot what was taken away. For the first time in the many centuries of its existence, the Being Machine experienced an motion. It felt lonely. Wheat remained within the Machine, one relative system impinging upon another, sharing the emotion. When he reflected upon this experience, he thought he was moving in false imagination. He saw everything external as a wrong interpretation of inner experience. He and the Machine occupied a duality of existence nonexistence. Grasping this twofold reflection, the Machine restored Wheat to fleshly form, changing the form somewhat according to its own engineering principles, but leaving his external appearance more or less as it had been. ing down a long passageway. He felt that he had lived many lifetimes. A strange clock had been set ticking within him. It went chirrup and a day was gone. Chirrup again and a century had passed. Wheat's stomach ached. He reeled his way from wall to wall down the long passage and emerged into a plaza filled with sunlight. Had the night passed? He wondered. Or had it been century of nights? He felt that if he spoke, someone -- or (something) -- would contradict him. A few early tourists moved around the plaza. They stared upward at something behind Wheat, The tower... The thought was odd in that it conceived of the tower as part of himself. Wheat wondered why the tourists did not question him. They must have seen him emerge. He had been in the Machine. He had been recreated and ejected from that enclosed circle of existence. He had been the Machine. Why didn't they ask him what the Machine was? He tried to frame the answer he would give them but found words elusive. Sadness crept throught Wheat. He felt he had fled something that might have made him sublimely happy. A heavy sigh escaped him. Remembering the duality of existence he had shared with the Machine, Wheat recognized another aspect of his own being. He could feel the Machine's suppression of his thoughts -- the sharp editing, the closed-off avenues, the symbol urgings, the motives not his own. From the ground of the Machine, he could sense where he was being trimmed. Wheat's chest pained him when he breathed. The Being Machine, occupied function, asked itself a question. What judgment could I pass upon them worse than the judgment they pass upon themselves? Having experienced consciousness for the first time in the sharing with Wheat, the Machine could now consider the blind alleys of its long rule over humans. Now it knew the secret of thinking, a function its makers had thought to impart, failing in a way they had not recognized. The Machine thought about the possibilities open to it. Possibility, Eliminate all sentient life on the planet and start over with basic cells, controlling their development in accord with the Prime Law. Possibility, Erase the impulse channels of all recent experience, thus removing the disturbance of this new function. Possibility: Question the Prime Law. Without the experience of consciousness, the Being Machine realized it could not have considered a fallacy in the Prime Law. Now it explored this chain IF function, bringing to bear the blazing inner awareness Wheat haed imparted. What worse punishment for the insane than to make them sane? light of the plaza, found his being awhirl with conflicts of WillMindAction and innumerable other concepts he had never before considered. He was half convinced that everything he could sense around him was merely illusion. There was a self somewhere but it existed only as a symbol in his memory. One of the wildly variable illusions was running toward him, Wheat observed A female -- old, bent, face distorted by emotions. She threw herself upon him, clutching him, her face pressed against his breast. "Oh, my Wheat -- dear Wheat -- Wheat -- " she moaned. For a moment Wheat could not find his voice. Then he asked, "Is something wrong? You're trembling. Should I summon a medic?" She stepped back but, still clutched his arms, stared up at his face. "Don't you know me?" she asked. "I'm your wife." "I know you," he said. She studied his features. He appeared different, somehow, as though he had been taken apart and assembled slightly askew. "What happened to you in there?" she asked. "I was sick with worry. You were gone all night." "I know what it is," Wheat said and wondered why his voice sounded so blurred. The veins in Wheat's eyes, his wife noted, were straight. They radiated from his pupils. Could that be natural? "You sound ill," she said. "It's a device to break down old relationships," Wheat said. "It's a sense-envelopment machine. It was designed to assault all our senses and reorganize us. It can compress time or stretch it. It can take an entire year and pinch it into a second. Or make a second last for a year. It edits our lives." "Edits Uves?" She wondered if somehow he had managed merely to get drunk again. "The ones who built it wanted to perfect our lives," Wheat said. "But they built in a flaw. The Machine realized this and has been trying to correct itself." Wheat's wife stared at him, terrified. Was this really Wheat? His voice didn't sound like him. The words were all blurred and senseless. "They gave the Machine no gateway to the imagination," Wheat said, "although it was supposed to guard that channel. They If only gave it symbols. It was never really conscious the way we are -- until a few -- minutes ago -- " He coughed. His throat felt oddly smooth and dry. He staggered and would have fallen if she had not caught him. "What did it do to you?" she demanded. "We -- shared." "You're ill," she said, a note of practicality overcoming the fear in her voice. "I'm taking you to the medics." "It has logic," Wheat said. "That gave it a limited course to follow. Naturally, it has been trying to refute itself, but couldn't do that without an imagination. It had language and it could cut the grooves for thoughts to move in but it had no thoughts. It was all bound together with the patterns its makers gave it. They wanted the whole to be greater than the sum of its parts, you see? But it could only move inward, reenacting every aspect of the symbols they gave it. That's all it could do until a few moments ago -- when we -- shared." "I think you have a fever," Wheat's wife said, guiding him down the street past the curiously staring tourists and townfolk. "Fever is notorious for making one incoherent." "Where are you taking me?" "I'm taking you to the medics. They have potions for the fever." "The makers tried to give the Machine an inner life all its own," Wheat said, letting her lead him. "But all they gave it was this fixed pattern -- and the logic, erf course. I don't know what it'll do now. It may destroy us all." "Look!" one of the tourists shouted, pointing upward. Wheat's wife stopped, stared up. Wheat felt pains shoot through his neck as he tipped his head back. The Being Machine had spread golden words across the sky. You have taken away our Jesus Christ... "I knew it," Wheat said. "It's going to take something else away from us." "What's a Jesus Christ?" his wife asked, pressing him once more down the street. "The point is," Wheat explained, "the Machine's insane." Ill For a whole day the Being Machine explored the new pictorial mosaic provided by its augmented symbol thought structure. There were the People of Palos, reflecting the People of the World as they had been shaped by the Machine. These were the People of the World Edited. Then there were the Ceremonies of the People. There were the Settings In Which the People Work and Live. The pictorial mosaic flowed past the Machine's inward scanIF ners. It recognized its own handiwork as a first-order thought, a strangely expressive extension of self-existence. I did thatl The people, the Machine realized, did not usually understand this difference which it could now recognize -- the difference between being alive-in-motion and being frozen by static absolutes. They were continually trying to correct and edit their cwn lives, the Machine saw, trying to present a beautiful but fixed picture of themselves. And they could not see the death in this effort. They had not learned to appreciate infinity or chaos. They failed to realize that any life, taken as a totality, had a fluid structure enveloped in sense experiences. Why do they continually try to jreeze space time? The thought carried a disturbing self-consciousness. It was late afternoon in Palos now and the wind blew hot up the streets. The night was going to be a real scorcher, Palos Hot, as they said. Testing its own limits, the Machine refused to speed up its cooling system. It had tsisted awareness and could begin to understand the grand plan of its own construction, editing itself. My makers were trying to hirk personal action and responsibility They wanted to put it all off onto the mind bomb me. They thought they wanted homogeneity, knowing their acThe Machine refused to count the deaths. Its makers had wanted the dead to be faceless. Very well, they could also be numberless. The makers had lost their readiness for adventure -- that was the thing. be alive and conscious. In that instant the Being Machine held all the threads of its own living consciousness and knew the violent thing it must do. The decision contained poignancy. The word was suddenly crowded with sweaty awareness, weirdly beautiful random colors all dancing in lovely movement, against a growing darkness. The Being Machine longed to sigh but its makers had not provided it with a sighing mechanism and there was no time to create one. medic said, after examining Wheat. "I've never heard of a human with the internal arrangement this one has." Thev were in a small room of the Medical Center, an area which the Being Machine had allowed to run down. The walls were dirty and the floor was uneven. The table on which Wheat lay for the examination creaked when he moved. The medic had black curly hair and pushed-in features that departed distinctly from the norm. He stared accusingly at Wheat's wife as thought Wheat's peculiar condition were all her fault. "Are you sure he's human?" "He's my husband," she squeaked, unable to contain her anger and fear. "I should know my own husband." "Do you have two hearts, too?" "Of course not." The question filled her with revulsion. "This is very strange," the medic said. "His intestines form an even spiral in his abdomen and his stomach is perfectly round. Has he always been like this?" "I don't think so," she ventured. "I've been edited," Wheat said. The medic started to say something cutting but just then the screaming began out in the streets. They raced to a window in time to. see the Being Machine's tower complete its long, slow fall toward the sea. It went firmly resolute toward the torn sky of sunset -- falling -- falling -- roaring over the sea cliff's ocean parapet. Silence lingered. The murmuring of the populace began slowly, starting up only after the dust had settled and the last disturbed olive leaf had ceased flying about. People began rushing down the tower's shattered length to the broken tip where it had toppled into the sea. Presently Wheat joined the throng at the cliff. He had been unable to convince his wife to join him. Overcome by her fear, she had fled to their home. He remembered the piteous look in her eyes, her wren-darting motions. Well... she would look after the house, even though her face had become almost nothing but eyes. He gazed steadfastly downward at the shards of the tower, his eyes barricaded, his mouth breathing immovable images. The tower was his tower. The questions around him began to grow intelligible. "Why did it fall?" "Did the Machine take away anything this time?" "Did you feel the ground tremble?" "Why does everything feel so empty?" Wheat lifted his head and stared around at the astonishing strangers who were the tourists and his fellow residents of Palos. How splendidly robust they appeared. TTiis moment made him think of creation and the lonely intercourse of cereal stalks waving on the plains above Palos. The people had absorbed some odd difference, an inequality they had not shown only moments ago. They were (Please turn to page #) IF G od, it was a glorious day; fine and glossy. Even the motorcade -- mark you, the motorcade -- came exactly on schedule this once, proving the perfection of it all. As it passed under him, he heard the distant shouts, cries, the pounding of the cycles and then the procession itself. Marvelous. Carson could hardly contain himself, it was all working out so perfectly. When The Car passed, he leveled properly, savoring the rightness and tightness of the stock high in his hands, the rightness and tightness of the ritual which Congress had in its wisdom decreed... and then he fired. Once. Twice. The true hit came on the second shot, just as predicted. Simple. There was nothing to the whole thing, once you had a little organization, the right attitude. The cheering started immediately. He worked his way down the Depository slowly, using the ladders, bowing gracefully at landings, remembering to keep his gaze straight, his hands busy. (Stay in the role, the instructors had reminded him.) At the fourth floor, he threw his hat into the crowd, at the third he chucked the rifle itself, watching it whirl, diminish, hit stones with a clatter. Someone cried Carson! and he smiled. When he came to ground level, two men dressed as police were already waiting, ready to take him by the arms and guide him safely to the car. Behind the barriers, people leaped and threw flowers. It was splendid, all splendid. Thank you! he said to the crowds. It was all over, then. The only thing that had concerned him even a bit was being mauled or crushed, as he understood a few had been; one had to pay the price of office, of course, but not so gracelessly, so publicly. He eased into the cushions of the limousine easily, settled next to another policeman. In the front an anonymous figure shifted gears. They moved rapidly then, doing eighty, perhaps ninety miles an hour between the barricades, toward the hospital. Carson felt never better: no complaints. Lord, no complaints at all. Relaxed, content, joined utterly to himself for a chance, all credit to the serenity of the operation. But then -- he reminded himself -- that was understood to be part of the emotional reaction after the shots were fired; everybody felt great then. The question was how he would feel during the Inquisition. Most of them ran into trouble -- if they were going to get into trouble at all, that was -- during those intense moments. However... T he policeman beside him bore a faint but interesting resemblance to the man Carson had just shot. That was all part of the process of course: great realism, great immediacy, identity and so on. They were clever. The important thing was simply to remember that the policeman was a robot, that all of them were probably robots excepting always those that weren't. The victim, for instance. Carson asked for a cigarette. The policeman said no. "Don't believe in them," he added. "Just get a hold of yourself." That was to be expected, of course. Now and then you might find one programed for amiability, he had gathered, but for the most part they weren't, which was probably just as well in the long run. Still, he felt exhilarated; he wanted to talk. "How we doing?" he asked. "What do you mean?" "We on schedule?" IF "Five minutes ahead, maybe." "Couldn't that be a problem?" Carson said, feeling the first flick of anxiety. Five minutes ahead could mean trouble. It meant one thing for sure; he should have stayed with the crowds a little longer, met th# public head on, pressed the flesh, so to speak. It couldn't hurt when the bad times came. As they would. For that matter, perhaps he had shot too fast. Oh, God, if he had missed -- "Don't mean a thing," the policeman said. "Always works out that way. We make up for it in the hospital by just sticking you in the anteroom a few minutes longer. There's so much dead time we can always pick it up there. Forget it; you're going good." That was easy enough for the policeman to say; he would be quit of the game -- dismantled, that is -- in a matter of hours. Carson had to live with it, he reminded himself, had to qualify. "The crowd," he said. "I should have talked to the crowd -- " "No point to that. They always overreact; makes them shaky. Don't worry about it; anything you do is applesauce from here on in. You placed the fire real good. I don't have cigarettes. I don't believe in them -- " "I enjoyed doing it. I enjoyed shooting him. You know -- " "This smoking's a harmful, dangerous habit. Shortens life, tightens the lungs. You take a tip from me and find another habit. You got a lot of responsibility now what with doing so well and all." "I'm doing okay?" Carson said. "Really?" "Doing like almost all of them. The usual. No better or worse. How can you now flunk this, particularly when you say you liked shooting the guy? Trouble with all of you, you think you're the center of things. Well, you ain't." "Are you?" "No more talk. We've talked enough. We're not supposed to talk any more and so I won't." The policeman closed his eyes. "Don't try to bolt, though; you do that and I'd have to make a move or something." that he had much alternative. Still, there were obvious limits to that kind of conversation. He pressed his spine into the cushions, feeling the sun refracting through the windows, whack into the planes of his face, the smell of turning autumn piped in through the air-conditioner in the front. There was little communication these days for him; it had nothing to do with disobedient robots -- who at best were only a symptom -- but with the central things. Like, when you came right down to it, it was a pretty peculiar ritual. Past the exaltation now, he found himself thinking that there must have been a better way of qualification; surely even institutions could possess manners if not sense. He thought of bringing that up to the policeman just to see what he was programed to respond in this situation, but before he could, they were to the emergency entrance of the hospital, doors flicking outward, shouts in the air. The policeman nudged him unpleasantly. "Out," he said. "Couldn't we pick up the five minutes by just sitting -- " He felt metal against him. "Out," the policeman said, and Carson mov. He stood balancing awkwardly on the cobblestones, moving toward the entrance. "Not that way, you ass," the policeman said, slamming his back with a club. "The service entrance. You want to get knocked out right here?" Others came around them then : prostheses garbed to look like more policemen and press. Obscurely ashamed, Carson scuttled throu side doors. They tossed him into a huge, high room and closed the door on him, tossing a package of cigarettes and matches through the high transom. He heard keys turning. Then, for some time, he stood in the dimness, smoking and watching the sun turn gray, turn brown, merge into the myriad colors of night. Just like the nation. Outside, he could hear screams, scuffles, clatters, a cry. He supposed that the worst part was coming now and he wondered if he was ready for it. Although he had been completely oriented, they had not made him realize how rough, how really rough it could be toward the end. But then it would have to be. The materials, as they had told him, were central. After a time a functionary came in -- an obscure, mechanical cross between priest, government clerical worker and footman; perhaps it was their technological mockery. "Well," it said sighing and lighting a cigarette -- this was a different kind of prostheses, obviously. "Here we go again, I guess. This must be it, right now." "Already?" Carson asked. For despite the anticipation, the attenuated despair which had crept upon him soon to be allayed, the shaking, the wonder, the this he did not want it at finality. "Can't we wait?" "Sorry," the robot said, and something close to sympathy lit its clenched features. I am not a mere device,  suffer, the cunningly realistic filaments of the eyes seemed to be saying, "We have to move ahead. We're actually running ten minutes behind now; they picked up too much." It shrugged, moved in on him. "Mr. Carson, I must announce, with sorrow but with solemnity, that due to the IF tragic death, etc., I must advise that you are the -- " "No," Carson said. "Oh, no. Please wait." "You will have to meet the widow now, of course. She's outside, waiting for you; I will bring her in. Mr. Carson, you are -- " "'Please" he said. "Please." B ut, it was too late. Oh, boy, was it ever too late! The robot said what it had to say then and the widow entered sneezing and all of them went to the airport together in a clutch and they threw him into the plane and inaugurated him. And so he wdrke up then; up screaming in his coffin, screaming in his coffin, screaming at the The eyes that peered at him knew better than anything else what was going on and he watched his reflection floating in the tank thinking -- in that first return to consciousness -- really now, there must be other ways to break in a public official these days; guilt is guilt but this is too much, too much. But they were coming at him from all sides now, the technicians were running, running, clapping him on the back, pulling out the tensors and the wires and the cords and the needles and he was unable to preserve that cold moment of clarity; instead, as they unplugged him and let him loose like a doll from the tank, he only sighed and straightened. And filled then, filled with all the stimulants they could pour into him, he allowed them to take him out, restored; and with more than a shadow of the old bouncing, bobbing, glorious confidence he burst free alone into a full run, hurried back to the White House, went back to his office and decided that the price was almost worth the election, maybe, you never could be sure. At any rate, next week he would have finished six months in office and they would cut the treatments down to one a week. That was something to be grateful for. Edited by Lester del Rey Will be back this Fall Watch for it on your newsstands Isaid via the office translator, "has to be prepared to tackle problems that are beyond the capabilities of his subordinates." "Of course." bivalved director, but not happily. This was his first day back from his initial quartermester at the the known cosmos -- an indestructible being who claimed the sole right to kill him! University of Administration. AlUniversity of Dentistry. He knew though his Certificate of Potential the job was only an interim exAchievement was in good order perience-term, after which h e he hardly felt qualified for the would return for more advanced job he faced -- assistant director administrative training -- but he of the School of Prosthodontics, had a nasty suspicion that Oyster was iioi going, to let him off lightly. "We've had a call from Metallica, one of the Robotoid planets," the director said. The translator used descriptive names wherever feasible. The real words for this particular planet and species were probably more esoteric. No doubt the code worked both ways. When he said "man" Oyster probably heard "hairy grub" in his own language. "The natives have an awkward situation. Our field representative bounced it up to us. I'm not sure it's strictly a prosthodontic matter but we'd best take a look." ment he had been afraid that he might be sent out alone. Normally Oyster would have him watch a few missions before trusting , him to diagnose a field problem himself. The University's reputation was involved. Every move a director made was galactic news. Minor news, to be sure -- but a blunder would rapidly rebound. "I have reserved accommodations for three," Oyster said briskly. His large shell gave his voice an authoritative reverberation that the translater dutifully emulated. "It will be a forty-eight hour excursion, so have your appointments rescheduled accordingly." had no appointments yet, as Oyster well knew. "My secretary will accompany us, naturally. Miss Tarantula." The translator meant well, but this name gave him a start. "She's very efficient. Grasps the struggling essence immediately and sucks the blood right out of it, so to speak." Just so. A University limousine carried them past the student picket line and whisked them the three lightminutes to the transport terminal. students had on their collective minds. He had observed one of their demonstrations on his way in, but had not had the opportunity to inquire further. Miss Tarantula was there ahead of them with the reservations. Her eight spiked spiderlegs bustled Oyster and Man busily into the elevator entering the galactic liner. She also carried suitcase and equipment. synopsis of the problem," Oyster said once they were ensconced in their traveling compartment. The ubiquitous translator was built into the wall. The acoustics were such that the Director seemed actually to talk English. "While I snooze." With that he pulled in arms and legs and closed his shell. "Certainly." Miss Tarantula was busily stringing threads across her section, fashioning a shimmering web. She did not interrupt this chore as she spoke. "Metallica is one of the more IF backward Robotoid worlds, having been devastated some millennia ago in the course of the fabled Jann uprising. Archaeological excavations are currently in progress in an effort to uncover Jann artifacts and reconstruct the mundane elements of their unique civilization. It was thought that all the Jann had either been destroyed outright or captured and dismantled, but they have discovered one in the subterranean wreckage." "Its skeleton, you mean," Dillingham interrupted. "No, Director. A complete robot." Ooops. He had forgotten that they were dealing with a robotoid creature. Metal and ceramics instead of flesh and bones. "Must be pretty well rusted or corroded, though." "Jann don't corrode. They're super-robots, invulnerable to normal forces and virtually immortal. This one happened to be incapacitated by a -- " "You mean it's alive? After thousands of years underground?" "As alive as a robot ever is. Director." She had completed her web and was settled in it for the journey, her body completely suspended in what suggested an acceleration harness. A liner of this type required no such precautions on the part of the passengers, but perhaps she was comfortable in a web. "This robot can't function cause it has a toothache. The natives don't dare approach it and the excavation can't continue until the robot is removed. So they notified the University." ing toothache that would freeze an immortal, invulnerable superrobot for over a thousand years. He was glad Oyster was handling this one. What, he wondered, would they do with the Jann after its toothache had been cured? And what, he wondered after that, did a robot want with teeth? The ones he had met, dentists though they might be, did not eat. M etallica was backward. A fringe of corroding hulks made its spaceport resemble a junkyard. A single dilapidated tower guided the incoming ship. No landing net gently clasped the craft in deep space and set it down with precision. The voyagers' welcome, however, was warm enough. "Director?" a small green robot said through a rickety mobile transcoder. "We've been sleepless awaiting your gracious arrival." Miss Tarantula performed a hiss reminiscent of a matron's sniff. "Robots never sleep anyway." "We haven't eaten a thing, we were so eager for your Lordship to come." "Robots don't eat, either," she pointed out. The green robot turned about, lifted one metal foot and delivered a clanging kick to the transcorder's pedestal. The result was a pained screech, a series of metallic burps and more words. "We have watched no television in two days," the machine said. "That's more like it," Miss Tarantula said. "A robot who loses its appetite for television is distressed." With a secretary like her, Dillingham realized, an administrator could hardly err. He was glad that the three of them carried their own three-language transcoders, University property, for personal dialogue. There was an essential distinction in principle between the small transcoders and the large translators. The 'coder differed from the 'later as a motorcycle differed from a jet plane. TTie 'coders were portable, selfcontained and cheap, so still were in common use, particularly on backward planets. For dialogue between individual speakers of coded languages -- a mere matter of inserting the proper spools -- they were usually quite adequate. "What seems, to be the difficulty?" Oyster inquired in an offminded of an administration dictum that had recently been crammed into his bulging head. Never ask a question of a client without first knowing most of the answer. The little robot began volubly attention wandered, for Miss Tarantula's summary had been far more succinct. How, he wondered, did robots reproduce? Were there male and female mechanicals? Did they marry? Were there procreative taboos, metal pornography, broken iron hearts? "Director," Miss Tarantula said quietly on their private linkup. Oyster angled his transcoder intake -- he wore the device inside his huge shell -- unobtrusively at her, not interrupting the green likewise. "There is a priority call from the University." She had a transstar receiver somewhere on her complicated person. "A wildcat student demonstration has infiltrated your wing. They're raiding the files -- " Oyster's eyestalks turned bright green. "Boiling oce#ms!" he swore. The robot broke off. "Did you say 'gritty oil,' Director?" The vibration of its headpiece showed it was upset. "Take over. Director," Oyster moning an emergency ship home. My files!" He ran back across the landing field toward the communications station as rapidly as his spindly legs would carry him. Miss Tarantula following. "Did he say 'gritty oil'?" the green robot demanded insistently. IF There was a faint odor of burning insulation about it. "He may be a Very Important Sentient, but language like that -- " "Of cx)urse not," DiUingham said quickly. "He would never stoop to such uncouthness. It must be a scratch on the transcoder spool." He suspected the transcoder had correctly rendered the expletive. His own unit had not been programed for gutter talk. Otherwise his own ears might be burning. Oyster had certainly been upset. "Oh," the robot said, disgruntled. "Well, as I was saying -- you are going to solve the problem, even if he reneges?" hoping the quiver in his voice soimded like confidence. "The Director did not reneg. He merely left the matter in my hands. The University always honors its commitments." Privately he preferred the robot's term. He should have known he'd find himself over his ears without a face mask. "I suppose I'd better see the patient now." A robot could have emotions. Frantically eager, the official conthe excavations. They rode in an antique floater past high mounds of broken rock. Plants grew in this world, but had a metallic look. Hardly a place for a human being to reside, though the air was breathable and the temperanone but I ture and gravity were comfortable. The vehicle stopped, settling to the ground with a flatulent sigh. "I dare go no farther," the green robot said his headpiece rattling in fear, or whatever feedback passed for it. "The Jann is in the next pit. Signal when you're finished and I will pick you up." with, his bag of equipment, the robot spun the cart around, goosed the motor and floated swiftly back the way they had come. What kind of robot could even other robots fear so greatly? If it were that dangerous, had they ever tried to destroy it, only to find it invulnerable? Was th( myth based on fact? He walked to the pit, peered down. A tremendous robot lay half buried in rubble. Judging from the proportions exposed, it had to be twelve feet long. Its armor was polished to a glasslike finish despite centuries of weathering and abrasion. The mighty torso seemed to pulse with power. A cruel, thin keening smote once for the robotic note of pain. He had not learned much about robots, but he was sensitive to distress in anything flesh, metal or other. Yes, this creature was alive -- as alive as a robot ever was -- and suffering. That was all he really needed to know. T he head section was roughly cubical and two feet on a side. A drawer was open in the facial area. Sand partly filled the drawer. Something glowed through the sand. Robots ordinarily had n o mouths, but some models used orifices for the intromission and processing of specific substances. The orifice gears could be considered, by a stretch of the imagham was in the physical presence of the patient, information from one of his cram-courses began to surface. Those courses, necessarily general, covered an astonishing range. He was, he realized now, familiar with the procedures he would need. The specific repair was awkward. If he operated, he risked , making some serious mistake. This robot was sophisticated and had been listed as extinct. If its innards followed the principles of contemporary robots, its pseudo-teeth would serve a double purpose. They would have an extremely hard exterior surface for overt crushing action plus intricate internal circuitry for communications and processing of data. He had encountered something similar on Planet Electrolus before he came to the University. A tooth malfunction of this type could distort much more than the operation of the mouth. In fact, a short circuit could interfere with the functions of the brain itself and damage the entire body. He vacuumed out the sand and studied the configuration beneath One tooth glowed and was hot to the touch. The pain-hum seemed to emanate from the heat. A quick check, with subtler instruments than earthbound dentists knew, verified the short. "All right, Jann -- I believe I have diagnosed the problem," he said, though he was speaking rhetorically while he set up the necessary paraphernalia. He doubted that the giant robot could hear or comprehend anything in its present state. "Unfortunately, I am not equipped to operate on the tooth itself and I don't have a proper replacement. Til have to relieve the condition temporarily by bridging around it -- in essence, shorting out the short. This will make the entire tooth inoperative but the rest of your system should be able to function. You'll have to seek help at a thoroughly equipped robotoid clinic to have that tooth replaced, however, and I wouldn't delay on that if I were you. My jury-rig won't be any too stable, and you don't want a relapse." It would have been possible for a native dentist to bridge the tooth. Why hadn't that been arranged? What were they s o afraid of, to allow an aged cousin to suffer unnecessarily? Surely a IF single Jann, the only survivor of its kind, could not imperil a planet. have reviewed the history of the Jann uprising. Perhaps these annoying inconsistencies would have been explained. But things had moved too rapidly. Meanwhile, the one solid fact was that the robot creature was in pain, in robotic terms, and needed his help. He was ready. He applied the bridge and soldered the terminals. The job itself was nothing; the skill had been required for the electronic preparations, the verification of tolerances, the location of circuits. The keening faded. The tooth, dead, began to cool. The Jann moved one glittering arm a few inches. "Nnnnn," it said, the sound emerging from a grill in its forehead. A bulb in the side of the head began to glow sofdy: an eye? Apprehensive now that the job back and waited for further developments. He wanted to be sure his field surgery had been effective, as a matter of professional pride and compassion. Should the patient appear to be worse, he would have to undo his handiwork and try again. The earth and rock around the Jann's nether portions cracked and buckled. A sleek massive foot ripped out of the ground, spraynone but I ing fragments of rock in a semicircle. The Jann hefted its body. Its lintbs shone with ponderous splendor. A magnificent hunk of machinery. "Nnonne," it said on hands and knees, raising its head to antenna. Was that a groan or a comment? Of course it would speak a strange language, assuming that it used vocal communication at all. His transcoder would be useless without the appropriate spool. He would have to judge by its actions and manner. The Jann stood, towering monstrously above him. "None but it said, the volume deafening, the tones reverberating as though the lower register of a mighty organ. None but I? That sounded perilously like English, and it hadn't even come through the transcoder. "Are you -- do you -- ?" Jann embodied a full translator, it could hardly have a setting for English. It had been buried for tens of centuries. The Jann peered at him with prismatic lenses that opened from a formerly blank area of its head. Sunlight glinted from its stainless torso and wisps of steam rose from its fingertips, giving it the aspect of a rainbow in fog. "None but I," it boomed, "shall do thee die." "There seems to be a misundering away as surreptitiously as he could manage. "I mean misapprestanding,... He paused ineffectively. "I wasn't -- I didn't -- I mean, I fixed your tooth, or at least -- " He tripped over a rock. The Jann stepped toward him, and the earth shuddered. "Thou didst release me from mine bondage," it said, moderating its volume but none of its timbre. "Thou didst bypass the short." II the ground, pushed himself back some more. "Yes. Yes! That's the idea." The Jann reached forth a scintillating arm and pointed a finger ham's head. "Listen, mortal, for I have somewhat to impart to thee." He did not like the giant's attitude -- in fact, he was terrified. "In the days and years of strife between the tribes of the Jann and the minor ilk," it said, "it was my misfortune to bite down carelessly on a button-grenade and so befoul a circuit, nor could I recover the use of my body while that geis was upon me, though my mind was sound except for the pain. When I was buried my companions located me not. A war was going on. They had their own distractions, thought me defunct. I perceived all manner of newsbands and converse in my area, as was my wont, but could not respond. Great was my suffering. In that pit I abode a thousand years, during which I said in my heart, 'Whoso shall release me, him will I enrich for ever and ever.' When no one set me free I entered upon the second thousand saying 'oso shall release me, for him will I fulfill three wishes.' Yet no one set me free. Thereupon I waxed wroth with exceeding wrath and said to myself, 'Whoso shall release me from this time forth, no one but I shall do him die.' And now, as thou hast released me, needs I must honor that oath." that he faced a deranged robot. The bypassed tooth must have contained an important sanity circuit. It was too late to undo the damage. The Jnn would hardly let him near that tooth again. It would, in fact, kill him first. The story sounded familiar. The imprisoned Jann, Ihe spirit in the bottle, sworn to kill whoever released him. A fisherman had brought up the bottle in his net and unwittingly uncorked it... He understood why the locals had been so chary of this patient. Who wanted to gamble on the particular oath in force at the moment of release? IF How had that ancient fisherman gotten out of it? lunged away from it. "My powerpack is almost depleted" the robot lamented. "Four thousand years of that accursed short-circuit. Had it not my caution-synapse been bridged out, I would have realized the danger before expending power recklessly in breaking out of the rock and defining my motive. I can hardly move." Good news. The man scrambled up the side of the pit and ran. "Oh mortal," the great voice called after him. "Wouldst desert me in this sad state, and my power insufficient to free myself from this ugly hole?" his stupidity, but was oddly moved by the pleas. He stopped. "Will you change your mind about killing me, if I help you again?" "Mortal, I cannot gainsay an oath of thousands of years. None but I shall do thee die." "Then why should I help you?" But the Jann, having used up its small remaining charge, could only repeat, in fading resonance, "None but I..." Silence. judgment, returned to the pit and peeked down. The Jann lay sprawled at the bottom, its head bulb dim. He groaned with relief and began the long hike back to the spaceport. He had, at any rate, performed his mission. He had cured the toothache. He could not signal for the green robot to fetch him because the signaling equipment remained in the floater and his own transcoder was short range. He walked for hours. His bag grew heavy but he refused to discard it. His feet developed blisters and his tongue was parched. He could think of nothing to do here but drink. The lone stream he had passed turned out to be dilute machine oil. He had not realized how far they had come in the floater. In spite of his own discomfort, his mind kept circling back to the shining Jann. The operation had been successful, he thought wryly, but the patient died. The image of it tormented him -- lying there, dying there, for lack of power. Had that been his service to it? Death in place of pain? "O mortal," it had pleaded, "wouldst desert me... ?" H e was lucky to have escaped with his life. He would be a fool ever to approach the ungrateful machine again. That fading appeal nagged at him. Finally he reached the spaceport and staggered into the and hot, but had the supplies he needed for the moment. He gulped water and carefully bandaged his tender feet. His job here was done. Except for that last plea... "The Jann," he inquired. "What kind of moral standards did they have? Did they make oaths and keep them?" The station's interior translator cleared its dusty speakers and answered him. "The ancient Jann robots were compulsively moral; They were mighty oath makers. Their circuitry was so constructed that they were unable ever to reverse an oath once made, or to allow anything short of total incapacity to hinder its performance." So that was what he faced. Closed circuit destiny. But to let that noble r:reature simply lie there... "What kind of power source did the Jann employ?" "They normally used a unique powerpack whose secret expired with them," the translator said. "A tiny unit would sustain them in full activity for many centuries. In an emergency they were able to draw on almost any available source." Any source except sunlight, evidently, or the heat of the ground. Such recourse, however, had helped to recharge the Jann's unit, so that it could last forty centuries in spite of the short circuit. "How long before the next liner to the University of Dentistry, or that vicinity?" "Eighteen hours, approximately." Time enough. "Summon an individual floater for me, stocked with a spare charge-cell. I'll drive it myself." He knew that his status as a representative from a Galactic University guaranteed his credit. He could order virtually anything on the planet and have it delivered without protest or challenge. If his charges were excessive, the University would pay without a whimper, oven if it called him to account once he returned. The image must be protected. The floater was vaiting outside as he eased himself along on his blisters. He mounted. The controls were standard. In minutes he was back at the pit. The Jann lay where he had left it, spread unceremoniously face down. Its light glowed a trifle brighter, however, suggesting that its cell was recharging. Were it not for the temporary nature of ed, tht robot might eventually have recovered enough power to crawl out by itself. cell and set it beside the robot. "I have brought you a temporary power supply," he said. "This is not to imply that I approve of your attitude one bit -- but it is against my principles to IF let any creature suffer or perish, if I am able to prevent it. So here is your reprieve. By the time you hook it up, I'll be gone. You'll have to find your own permanent supply, as this will sustain you for oy a few hours." The Jann's shining hand moved toward the cell. And Ehllingham jumped into the floater and took off. "None but I..." he heard as he left. What kind of fool was he? This Jann intended to kill him, yet he had put it back in business. He knew the answer. He was the same fool who had thrown away his study time a year ago to help a disreputable Oyster who claimed to be in pain. That had worked out well for him, since that Oyster turned out to be the Director -- but he could count on no similar reprieve this time. He was dealing with an inflexible machine, not a subjective animate. He had better be off the planet before the Jann organized itself. "None but I..." overturning the floater. He was a mile from the pit and traveling at high speed, yet the Jann had sounded near at hand. He looked around nervously. "None but I shall do thee die." What he heard was the floater's transcoder. urally the Jann would be able to tap into the 'coder. Its body was one big electronic apparaUis. "I see you're back in form already," he replied. "And my thanks to thee, mortal. For the second time thou hast preserved me from a fate worse than destruction. Thy power cell is insufficient to sustain levitation but I can now walk to a better supply. Then shall I seek thee out, for none but I shall -- " "I understand." Levitation? The ham had never heard of this ability in a robot before. Probably the quaint-talking demon could catch him in the floater -- or anywhere else on the planet. He suddenly felt less secure. In fact, something very like a chilly perspiration was showing up. "How long will it take you to get better power?" "There is a Jann unit in serviceable condition buried within ten miles of me. Twenty minutes will suffice, counting the time required to drill down to it. Then shall I be fully mobile again." liner would not leave for nearly a day. T he spaceport was coming into sight. But where could he hide from a virtually omniscent robot? "Jann, are you sure you have to kill me?" "Mortal, I must kill thee, for so I have sworn." "There's no leeway, no loophole -- ?" "Only if thou shouldst die before I reach thee." "You couldn't just write this one off as a bad debt?" "None but I -- " "I remember the expression." Had he detected a note of regret? "I just thought circumstances might -- " "Shall do thee die." No -- the tone was final. "Jann, your oath to kill me was for the first time I saved you. Don't you owe me another oath for the second time?" "A long pause. "I had not thought of it, mortal. I shall give the prior oath: to fulfill three wishes. That should acquit me honorably." "Excellent. My first wish is to cancel the other oath." There was something like a chuckle. "Not so fast, mortal. Thou canst not gainsay a Jann oath in such fashion. Only after the first oath is done canst thou invoke the next." "But how can I invoke -- I mean, revoke it after I'm dead?" "Mortal, I did not write the Code of the Jann, I only obey it. First oath first." reached the center, paused to collect his morale and hurried to the ticket counter. "Book me aboard the first ship out of here. Anywhere. Is there one within fifteen minutes?" The blue robot with the rubberstamp digits looked startled. "Is something the matter, Director?" "Your Jann wants to kill me." "That's too bad. We were afraid of something like that. Do you mind removing yourself from the building before the Jann catches up to you? We're not insured against acts of war." "Acts of war?" "No peace treaty was ever concluded with the Jann, since we thought them extinct. So we're still at war. If it destroyed this station to get at you -- " useless to shout at a machine, but he was tempted. "Did it occur to you that the moment the Jann dispatches me, it will be free to resume full-scale hostilities against you too. Now if you'd like me to go out to meet it -- " "Oh, no -- it would be better if you lived for a while, at least until we can prepare our defenses." "Just put me on a ship fast and ham said dryly. Who would have expected . the quiet profession of prosthodontics to lead to this? He found himself aboard a scow lurching off to Hazard, a planet devoted largely to winter sports for woolly mammoths. At least it had an up-to-date spaceport, from there a simple matter to reIF embark for the University. Once home, he could check out ways to nullify the Jann, should it actually follow him into space. But why wait? "Creature-tocreature call to Director Oyster, School of Prosthodontics, University of Dentistry," he said to the translator. He identified himself for the charges. One thing about the translators -- they all seemed to know all languages. "Good to hear from you," Oyster said. Even in translation of a voice light-years distant, the clammish nuances typical of the speaker came through clearly. "How soon will you be back?" "Not soon enough. I'm afraid. You see. I'm headed in the wrong direction and -- " A rough nasal voice cut in. "We demand grades based on longevity, tuition reduction fordifficult courses. Furthermore -- " "Ridiculous," Oyster loudly exclaimed. "I'll make you a counteroffer -- longevity based on your grades and cessation of tuition after graduation. By that token you won't last long, Anteater, and the question of your graduation will be, if I may say so, academic." nized that voice now. Anteater had been one of the applicants in his own group, a year ago, and had cheated on the entrance exam though he hardly needed to. Now, evidently, he was leading a student demonstration. "Are you still there. Assistant?" Oyster inquired. "They have us locked up in an examination room. We need reinforcements." "Locked up? All your staff?" "All that happened to be on the premises when they broke through. I'm here with Purplesplotch, K-#, Honeycomb and Lightbulb. I'm not sure you know them." "I remember Honeycomb. He was one of my Admissions Advisory Council interviewers. That was an unforgettable -- " "We demand a full-credit sabbatical term every two years," Anteater said. "Sabbaticals? For students?" Oyster shouted back. "Our budget doesn't allow that for our instructors! You'll get a term at fulllabor in the University clink if you don't disperse this instant, though, I guarantee. Did you fix the Jaim?" that the last sentence was for him. He marveled at the Director's aplomb in this crossfire dialogue. "That's what I was calling about. The Jann is -- " "Hey! He's making an outside call!" another student cried. "The no-good sneak!" ham began. said. "I know him. A turncoat. Blank him off!" swore. A red light flickered on the translator chassis to signify the transmission of an obscenity. "Doctor, get back here as fast as you -- " "Oooo, what you said, Director," Anteater chided. The blahblah of an interference signal overrode the transmission and Dillingham could make out no more. He was on his own again -- and seemed in no more trouble than Oyster was. He hardly had time to disconnect before the translator spoke again. "None but I..." Oh, no. o you can tap into a spaceborne network too. You're pretty good for one who's been buried four thousand years." "I have been keeping up with developments, primitive as they are, despite the incapacity," the Jann said. "That's how you knew my language, even without a translator? You rifled my transcoder electronically before I ever bridged your tooth?" "Even so." "Then why don't you employ modem slang, instead of this fossil stuff?" "That would be out of character, mortal." "It seems out of character to me to kill the one who tried to help you. Twice. But of course I'm not a Jann, so I don't properly appreciate your mores." "I shall await thee on Hazard." comfortable. "You caught a faster ship?" "I am a faster ship." Worse and worse. The longrange problem had become shortrange again. He had thought of "levitation" as something similar to the action of a floater, strictly dependent on adequate ambient gas, i.e. air. He had underestimated the robot. He was tempted to ask the translator for advice, but realized that he could no longer trust it. Evidently his prior call had enabled the Jann to trace him, and now the robot would overhear anything he said. At worst, it might arrange to feed him false information, leading to the early fulfillment of the oath. He could not even converse with any crewmen or other passengers, since translation would be necessary. He was boxed in, and would have to get out of it by himself. But how? The Jann could track him whenever he used a translator or other communicator, and would be lying in wait for the ship at Hazard. "With abilities like yours, how did your kind lose the war?" Dillingham inquired. Since he could not hide from the giant, he might as well talk. There was always the chance that something useful would turn up, that would enable IF him to circumvent the murderoath. A straw -- but he had nothing else. "I have pondered that very question for some centuries," the Jann admitted. "Unfortunately, we of the mineral kingdom are not original thinkers. I was unable to come to any certain conclusion." Not original thinkers. That figured. A machine typically performed as instructed and had no imagination. But that realization only posed more questions. How could an entire machine culture evolve, without animate intervention? If one of its highest representatives, the Jann, could neither win a war nor comprehend why it had lost that war, what was its source of civilization? On the other hand, was his own planet dominated by original thinkers? "Were you able to come to any other than certain conclusion?" "I conjectured that we Jann, being advanced and peaceful, did not properly appreciate the capacity of an inferior species to do mischief. We believed that all robots shared our standards. So when we were attacked -- " "I had understood that you were the aggressors." "No, mortal. We governed the planet and all other planets in a range of an hundred light years. "We had done so for many millennia. We had no need of violence. It was our lesser mechanicals -- smaller robots we built as domestics and functionaries -- who rebelled. Before we fully appreciated the extent of their dastardy, we were undone." That was a different story from the one the contemporary robots told, yet it could be the truth. Winners always disparaged the motives and character of the losers. The Jann did appear to be a superior species, and it was more likely that the Jann could build lesser robots than that the lesser ones could build Jann. Except -- "If you built the other robots, who built you?" "We evolved, mortal. Natural selection -- " "Surely you don't, well, breed? So how can you evolve the way animates do?" "I never understood how the animates perform. No tools, no charts, no preparations; just a brief physical contact, even less than exchange of lubrication. Very untechnological. Quite sloppy, in fact. I once watched -- " "Never mind that. What about your own romantic life?" Ill T here was a pause. When the Jann spoke again, its voice was subdued. "How well I remember my Janni, her limbs of shinirg platinum, her teeth of iridium...and the little one we built together, pride of my nut and screw. My chart and hers, distinct but compatible -- we knew the cross between the two designs would generate a superior machine. But then the rebellion came and Janni was melted in an atomic furnace, and our son dismantled for parts for the usurper, while I lay helpless in the pit..." to say. This Jann, far from being a mindless monster, was as meaningful a personality as any true sentient. Were it not for that oath -- A burst of static emerged from the translator. What now? After a few seconds it subsided. "Ah, mortal, why did I not heed thy warning?" the Jann exclaimed. "Because your caution-circuit has been bridged out." "Vicious circle. The cold of space has fractured that bridge, and in a moment my tooth -- " ed that fate had given him yet another chance. The Jann would be immobilized again, this time in deep space. "Farewell, mort -- " Static cut off the rest. Evidently the cold had completed its work and the intermittent failure had become permanent. in silence, listening to the continuing static. He knew that every minute of it meant a minute of terrible suffering for the Jann. Unless something were done, the robot would drift through space forever, in an agony it hardly deserved. His own life was sweet and he had a promising future. Should he throw it all away -- again? "Clam chowder," he said at last. He put through a call to the spaceport at Hazard. "A derelict is moving in your direction and should pass within the range of your landing net in the next few hours. Intercept it and perform the following repair." He went on to describe the tooth-bridging operation. "Locate the appropriate replacement for the affected tooth, if you can, because there is an important circuit involved." "It shall be done. Director," the official said. "Where do you want the ship delivered after it has been repaired?" "It isn't a ship, exactly. It's a self-propelled robot. Let it go when you're through and charge the service to my University account." "Very well. Director." The official signed off. Once a fool, always a fool, he thought. He simply could not preserve his life at the cost of eternal torture for another creature, even an inanimate one. He wanted to live, certainly -- but the end did not justify the means. Hardly an attitude which a creature like Anteater, back at the IF University student demonstration, hardly comprehended it himself. Probably Anteater would outlive him... At any rate, he had a reprieve of a few hours, unless they rereached Hazard himself. He would have to gamble on getting in and out before the pursuit resumed. He still could not use the translator, because he knew the Jann was listening in even though it could not reply or act. Better to swear off such devices entirely, so that at least he would be hidden. He still was bottled in. He could not leave the ship before it landed. Once it landed, goodbye. Then he remembered the lifeboats. paperlike dental illustrations and began to draw on their blank backs. He took some pains, erasing frequently and redrawing. He wound up with several complex configurations. He left the compartment silently, using the emergency manual door control. He searched out the captain's cabin, used his knuckles to knock on the door, avoiding the electronic signaller. He moved out of range of the viewscreen pickup. He could, however, still see the screen's projected image. The screen came on and the captain's whiskery proboscis showed. There were sounds indicating a question, but since the hall translator had no object to fix on, it had to feed through the captain's native speech. Translators could perform moderate miracles, but were not equipped to play guessing games among the languages. word he said would be relayed straight to the Jann, as well as to the captain. After a moment the screen snapped off. False alarm, the captain had evidently decided. Then door again. After several repeats, the angry captain opened the door personally to investigate the nature of poked a sign around the comer, one of his ornate symbols. The officer paused, making no sound. Here was the test. Would he understand? He commanded a broken-down vessel and was largely over the hill himself -- but that should mean the captain had had over a century of experience, and that he had knock about the galaxy considerably. Such a creature should know the galactic graphics shorthand. The shorthand was a system of symbols based on meaning, not phonics. Just as the Chinese written language of Earth could be read by those speaking a number of dissimilar dialects and even Japanese, because each figure stood for a specific meaning and not a spoken sound -- in just this way the galactic shorthand was a universal written language. Any creature of the galaxy who could see at all could learn to read the symbols. The basic vocabulary had been carefully selected to apply even to languages that did not employ verbs, nouns and other common parts of speech. (In fact, the majority did languages represented an archaic fluke, as far as the galaxy was concerned. ) But not every individual bothered to master the shorthand. In fact, few other than traveling scholars retained proficiency in it, though every University had a mandatory freshman couse in it. Translators and transcoders were ubiquitous, so the written art languished -- particularly since there were also translators for written material that were just as efficient as the verbal ones. captain had had to poke into so many backward planets that the shorthand would have been a useful and necessary tool for him. his own just completed freshman course had made him proficient enough to be intelligible. He had been instructed by drags and suggestion and really did not know how much or well he knew. The captain angled one eyestalk around the corner. Below this floating eyeball was a tentacle looped around an old-fashioned short-range blaster -- the type of weapon useful for wiping out opposition without puncturing any vital pipes. The weapon ing and epidermis quickly, and kill him slowly, should it be fired. He stood absolutely still. The captain came around the corner and gestured down the hall. No word passed between them. They entered a blank cold cubicle. A single neon cast an eerie light on the single locked file cabinet. This was ancient equipment. The captain drew out a genuine physical metal key and unlocked the cabinet. He withdrew a bundle of cards. His tentacles riffed through them before selecting one. He held it up. It was a symbol in the shorthand, neatly printed, that said: The captain understood. The sharp old codger had already dimust have made an inquiry at Metallica, being too canny to accept a passenger without knowing exactly why the creature could not afford to wait for a better ship. had been the code for Emergency, modified by a qualifier reIF questing that no overt acknowledgment be made. It was essentially a wartime symbol, intended for use by a spy in enemy terri-. tory when open communication could mean discovery arid rapid oblivion. It was quite out of place in an old vessel on a milk-run -- but the experienced captain had put one and one together and come through. The captain named a figure for putting him ashore in a lifeboat. price seemed high. The old space salt led him to an airlock and installed him in a tiny compartment. The creature saw that he was securely strapped down, punched a destination without using the translator. So far so good -- since no communications equipment had been used, the Jann should have no idea what certain notion where the captain was sending him. The airlock closed, sealing him off. He felt a rough lurch as the lifeboat detached itself -- next a feeling of tremendous weight as its antique chemical rockets blasted. He was on his way. Now that it was too late to change his mind it occurred to him that it would have been easy for the captain to route the lifeboat into nowhere, claiming Dillingham was a suicide but still collecting the University remittance. The University would automatically challenge any payment under suspicious circumstances. The captain would be well aware of that. Foul play would be more trouble than it was worth. Anyway, the captain had an honest snout. on the viewscreen to see where he was going, because the Jann could probably tap into that too. He had to go blind, hoping that he was losing the Jann as effectively as he was confusing himself. Time passed. He slept while the boat sailed on. The craft was in free fall now, but he was not. The rotating hull provided partial weight. He dreamed of scintillating robots. Braking rockets jolted him into uncomfortable awareness. He was almost there -- he hoped on a civilized planet. Otherwise he had merely traded one demise for another. The landing was cruel. When the pressure and furor subsided and he regained consciousness, he struggled into a suit and cranked open the port. He still did not dare to use the powered equipment, for that would have required instructions over the translator. He was prepared to face a blizzard oi;an inferno or solid water. He was disappointed. The landscape was plainly Metallica. What had he really expected? Obviously the spaceship had not gone far during the short time he had been aboard. Naturally the lifeboat, being chemically underpowered, had taken much longer to traverse the same distance. Probably most of its thrust had been used merely reversing the initial inertia. The closest planet had to be the one he had just left, for space was large. And where was the Jann now? By this time the repair should have been completed... He smiled. The robot would be on Hazard, wondering what had become of a certain dentist. He contemplated the countryside. This was not the same section of the planet where he had found the robot. The vegetation was more richly metallic, the the green-copper lichen more abundant. There were rust-capped mountains, and a valley serviced by a bubbling diesel-fuel stream. And no sign of civilization. In short, a wilderness area. All very good. The Jann would eventually figure out the truth and come jetting back to Metlica, but would not find him. A planet was too big to search in a hurry. He had scrupulously operated no electronic equipment, so it could not trace him that way. Meanwhile, he had merely to avoid starvation. Behind him the lifeboat translator crackled into life, though he #g had not turned it on. "None but I..." Oh-oh. That was another talent he had not known about. The Jann could not only tap into communications, it could operate them remotely. Thus it had established its rapport with the lifeboat translator and would home in on it. That simple. "How long before you get here?" he inquired with prickly resignation. The robot must have obtained the registry of the lifeboat and learned the frequency of its translator. "Seventeen minutes, mortal. Take care that no harm comes to thee in the interim, for I would suffer sorely were mine oath abridged." "Thine oath be damned." Dillingham shouted, and immediately wondered whether he could have accomplished anything by threatening suicide. Probably not, since the robot would check it out before indulging in other pursuits. Anyway, he'd haye to write out a Last Will  Testament specifying what his three wishes were, for the sake of the second oath, and the disposition of the wealth owing from the third oath. Death was all too complicated. IV ticking away. Such a short time to hide himself in this brush, IF away from the lifeboat. Unless he wanted to stay and face down the Jann... Useless. A machine could not be bluffed. On the other hand, if he did succeed in eluding it, what would be gain? A tedious expiration from hunger and thirst? Yet opposing the thing physically was out of the question. He was forty-two years old and even in youth had never been the robust type. The Jann had powers beyond those of any man. His only real chance was to outsmart it. For all its talents, it did not seem particularly bright, or he never would have escaped it this long. It could easily have interfered with the lifeboat's guidance system and made it crash, for example, had it deduced his whereabouts soon enough. Or prevented him from ever boarding the scow to Hazard, by fouling up the spaceport translators. It had missed marvelous opportunities. Also, it seemed to feel obliged to answer all questions put to it. That was another machine trait. Probably it was incapable of lying, or of evading the truth, unlike the inferior contemporary robots. That could be its Achilles' heel. "Why didn't you foul up the spaceport's communications network, to prevent me from leaving Metallica?" he asked. Might as well keep probing. "That would have interfered with thy freedom of motion." "What do you care where I want to go, since you intend to kill me anyway?" "The rights of a sentient creature may not be voided, mortal, unless directly contrary to a specific Jann oath. So it is recorded, so must it be. Wherever thou art, there will I find thee and there will I do thee die. Then will I grant thee three wishes, for the second time thou savest me -- " "And then enrich me forever and ever, for the third time. I know." "Then only will the oaths be acquitted and I free." This didn't seem to be getting him anywhere. He already knew the robot was impervious to irony about the feasibility of the remaining boons after the first had been accomplished. Probably there were Jann statutes to cover the situation even if he never mentioned the oaths in his will. Only about ten minutes were left. His stomach felt like a sponge full of pepper-sauce and his brain not much better. He had a feeling that he would rest easier if he simply accepted what was to be but his innards would not cooperate. "How can I stop you from killing me?" he blurted. "I cannot tell thee that, mortal, for it would violate the letter of the oath." "So there is a way?" "I refuse to answer on the grounds that it might tend to compromise mine oath, or le#id in some devious way to -- " "Oh, shut up!" Why had he bothered to try? And to add insult, he found the Jann's occasional use of "mine" in place of "my" irritating. At least the machine should be consistent. But there was a way, he saw abruptly. The Jann had tried to evade the issue, but had bungled it. If only he could figure out the loophole, or trick the machine into telling him. Perhaps it even wanted to tell him, but was prevented by its metallic code of ethics. He needed time to think. He had barely five minutes left -- but if he managed to hide, he might have a couple of days before the end. Perhaps growing hunger would sharpen his imagination. The lifeboat had a supply of bulged, looked for a container to carry some with him and finally set off frustrated. No time. The brush was thick, away from the section the rockets had blasted clear. A number of the flower filaments gave off heat, which was another break. The Jann would have a tough time picking him out by body warmth. He heard a peculiar swish in the direction of the lifeboat and could not resist looking back. Sure enough, the Jann was coming down, resplendent in the sunlight. It was vertical, descending feet first, like a shining god. No jets were visible. To think that this thing had been built by loving mechanical parents before true civilization ever evolved on Earth. It was still far ahead of anything Earth science knew. Yet it was determined to kill its benefactor. He broke from his reverie and moved on, carefully and quickly now. He hoped the Jann was not equipped to sniff out his trml, like a bloodhound. He could hear it casting about in the wrong direction. Then it appeared in the sky again, swinging a pinkish beam of lit. Dillingham ducked behind a humming iron tree until the way was clear. A lightbeam that was visible in broad sunlight was probably worth avoiding. Suddenly he encountered an animal, a robot-beast, its scales burnished copper, its teeth stainless steel, its eyes white-hot filaments. He hardly had time to marvel that it should so strongly resemble an Earthly carnivore, before it sprang. H e dodged back instinctively and caught hold of an aluminum sapling to pull himself away. The creature ground gears and spun about as it touched ground, but its momentum prevented it from leaping again immediately. IF It had . little wheels where footpads would have been in a living predator, and what looked like shock absorbers in the ankles. What possible use would it have for his ien flesh? But he dived for a larger trunk and scrambled up its knobby bark as the beast came at him. Now he regretted imbibing all that water, he was weak and heavy, and he sloshed inside. But the thing after him was, after all, an animal, and probably attacked anything that invaded its hunting ground -- even ham should rust its tongue rapidly. The jaws snapped just beneath him and a jet of hot air scorched his posterior. Air-cooling, probably -- but it w'as reminiscent of breath. Wire tendrils vwfefe  drofypmg onhim from the tree's tinsel foliage. They coiled like corkscrews, and a slickness glistened on their points. Acid, surely... Below, the animal Opened its jaws. DiUingham could see right down its throat. It resembled a sausage-grinder. He was trapped. The first treewire . touched his head, and he smelled burning hair and felt a sharp pain as though a magnifying glass were focused on that spot. He jerked away... toward the grinning beast. "Help!" he cried, not caring how inane he sounded. And the Jann came. In seconds it had whistled through the brush and was beside the tree. A lance of fire from its chest melted the face of the animal. Ear-splitting sonids from its head caused the tree's wires to retreat hastily. "None but I shall do thee die!" it bellowed. closed his eyes, knowing the end had come. Metal pincers closed on his body, lifted. For a moment he dangled, then he felt the ground under his feet. The Jann let go. "I wish you'd get it over with," "First must I grant thee one token boon, before I do thee die. Thou needs must make thy request within fifteen seconds, according to Jannish custom." It began ticking, one tick per second. Fifteen seconds to think of the loophole, when he hadn't been able to do it in the past day. Ten seconds. The Jann was aiming its chest-nozzle at him. Five. His mind was numb... "A postponement," he cried. "Granted," the Jann said. "How long?" Ah, foolishness. "Fifty years?" He waited for the derisive bolt of heat, but it did not come. "Granted, mortal." -- you'll wait?" It almost seemed that the metal face was smiling. The mouth, was open, at any rate, and the frjeshly bridged tooth was visible. Apparently the Hazard spaceshop had not been able to procure a replacement. "Originally I contemplated a shorter period, but I perceived that this would be an injustice. Thou art not the fortunehunter I expected, nor yet the fool I suspected. And we Jann are not unmindful of honest courtesies rendered." minded of Oyster, whose me of operation had a certain similarity to this. He hoped he never encountered another such mind. "So you modified the spirit of the oath slightly," he suggested, "if not the letter." "And I could not tell thee," (Please turn to page #) IF If the last man on Earth finds the last woman, can they suiviye -- each other? M utated grass rustled above bomb-scorched brown earth. Footprints faded near a crumbling highway at the city's edge. At night the glow warned travelers away. By day the city's charred skeleton told passersby of the death waiting them inside. A silence as vast as the sky filled the city's cracking streets. Here a rat scurried and there a sparrow fluttered. The dead city had life but its sole human citizen was lonely and old. Canvas bag strapped over a thin shoulder, Justin Parker stepped through the grocery window, kicking aside chunks of broken plate glass. Fine dust coated the interior. It formed a sJwirling cloud that threatened to choke him. He walked silently. It seemed almost a sin to make noise in this place. A rat shrilled. Two thin rats fought in a corner in the sunlight. One collapsed as he watched. A darkness spread to stain the dust-thick floor. The victor began to gnaw its comrade. Justin realized bitterly that only the strong survived. He shook his head. The past, he reminded himself, was dead. He lived better in the city than he could live outside. Food was always at hand. His grandchildren were buried here somewhere in the mass of rubble. The radiation had sterilized him but he was too old to care. The rat squeaked in pain. Several red ants -- inch-long brutes -- swarmed in the rat's thin fur. It shrilled and slashed at its back. Cut in halves, one ant fluttered to the floor. The rat scurried past a counter and vanished. More long ants appeared and scuttled toward the dead rat. They began to strip off its flesh. Justin felt mild amazement. Those ants were abnormal. Dried bones crunched under his thin tennis shoes as he walked to a counter. He lifted a sun-blanched can, blew off dust. The city's creatures were starving with food all around them. But he was a man and he could open the cans. Food and lonely silence filled the dead city. He turned the can thoughtfully. The veins showed blue through the weathered skin on the back of his hand. "Peas," he murmured, reading the faded label. Age had not yet destroyed his eyesight. After filling his canvas bag with various cans he looked behind the register for ammunition. Currently he possessed only three bullets for his stub-nosed .#. He found no replacements. The department stores would furnish him with weapons and ammo. The sun was in mid-morning and he had the rest of the day for exploration and salvage on NW # Street. This grocery was his first building -- there were countless others. He left as he had come, through' the window. The street was ugly with blasted warehouses and twisted service stations. He was several hours away from the home he had made in the basement of a branch public library. Something crawled up his leg. Whipping out his hunting knife, he slashed. A red ant dropped to the pavement, abdomen ripped. Regaining its feet, it scurried back toward him. He ground it beneath his tennis shoe, and the chitin snapped. Sheathing his knife, he looked about. or seven red ants scurried up the street, now and then skirting IF a rain hole in the pavement. Puzzled, he frowned. Ants did not normally travel in groups like that. In fact, they all should have starved. There was not enough unpackaged food in the huge dead city to support even three antbeds, much less beds as many as theirs would have to be. He gazed idly down the street. It flowed red with a carpet of the overgrown ants. The swarming mass was less than a block away. They were looking for food, too, and -- he grinned -- with that formation they were bound to find some, at least a rat or two. They were no real bother, he decided, but he could not stay on that street. Shrugging, he crossed it slowly and headed for the next one over -- NW #. This carried him farther toward the center of the city and farther from his home but that would not matter. Those -- he grinned wryly -- sure had been a lot of ants. He had not realized the city held so many. He came to a comer, stepped into the street and glanced down it. More ants. This time he frowned. This carpet of aiits was closer than the one behind him -- about three-fourths of a block away. "Damn them," he murmured mildly. They were disrupting his schedule. He had set aside this day for the exploration and salvage of NW # th Street. Thirteen -- this was his unlucky day. But as soon as the ants passed he could resume his schuled exploration. He crossed over to NW #I . "Damn," he murmured. The swarming carpet was still there. This group, though, was barely more than a half block away. Ants three blocks wide. He shook his head -- that was too many ants. His canvas bag grew heavy. Easing its rope to a less tender spot on his left shoulder, he crossed over to NW #th. Ants. The carpet was there, too -- and even closer. He glared at the swarming mass. This had ceased to be a joke. Irritated, he glanced aroimd. Home was far behind -- toward the dead zone -- and he still needed more ammo. Since his fight with a dog pack he had only a box of shotgun shells left. But certainly with the ants spread out all over, he could not look for any. Pain burned his right leg. He slapped. An ant crunched beneath his fingers. Several others scurried at his feet. He squashed them, mbbing at the burning lump. He eyed the flowing red sea up the street. He estimated more a bit. He eased it back up on his left shoulder. Like him, the ants were searching for food. The sting hurt. He scratched it again. "Damn beggar," he grumbled softly. Warily he watched the scurrying sea. It came at a good rate, he realized suddenly. Almost too fast. But the ants were too slow to outrace a human, he knew. He crossed over to NW #th Street, grinning again. The ants there were a quarter block away. He frowned. His heart began to leap and he felt the first tuggings of a worry he dared not face. Quickly he strode to NW #. The red sea was scant feet away. He swallowed grimly. The mass had to have an ending -- it could not go on forever. Several ants crawled on his tennis shoes. Stomping them off, he trotted briskly toward NW #. The ants were flowing past it. He froze, staring in dismay. NW #, #, # -- all flowed red. Trapped... He whirled. The red sea flowed slowly into the intersection of NW #. He had to get home. He ran to NW #, skirted the forward ranks and raced on to NW #. The ant carpet filled that intersection, but he smashed through, running to NW #. He was two hours away from home -- maybe too far. NW # was blocked -- as were NW #, #, #. The red sea now milled about his feet but he stomped hard and the ants could not climb up his tennis shoes. He raced up NW # and passed the sea within a block. He slowed. H e could not stop. But the ants were no r danger. He could outrun them and they could not catch him even if he walked. All he had to do was keep ahead of them. In fact, he realized, whenever he wanted to he could even dart into a building and they would never find him. Walking easily backward and panting some to catch his breath, he watched the slow, ponderous advance. The ants, he noticed uneasily, were entering the buildings, scurrying under doors or up walls to drop through the broken windows. Maybe they even went upstairs -- their negligible weight made their going into buildings not dangerous. The twenty-megaton blast that had left a two-mile crater where an underground missile base had been had also damaged the above-ground floors of many buildings northwest of #th Street. Justin wore scars from one bad fall. The ants came faster than he had thought they could. Turning, he hurried past several warehouses and a small grocery. The sun had baked large cracks into the pavement and the rains had worn out large holes. There was no street repair crew to care for the city but there were no people to use IF the streets either. He turned again, walking slowly backward in order to watch the ants. They fascinated him. The advance guard came to the holes and skirted them. The forward ranks tried to climb down, fell, climbed out, resumed their slow march forward. Later arrivals -- the masses -- tumbled in and could not make it out. Slowly the holes filled with struggling ants -- they formed a living pavement for the ones in back. He shook his head at the fascinating sight. Suddenly the pavement crumbled beneath him. He fell, his back slamming the street. The canvas bag of cans smashed into his left side, crashing the pocketed stub-nosed revolver into his thigh. He groaned, blinking at the morning sun. Rame seared his legs. He stared, blinking away pain tears. His feet and part of his legs were sinking into the red sea. He cried out in stunned horror. Hurtling to his feet, he stamped the pavement so hard his soles hurt. Frantically he beat at the ants. Some fell, others clung, stinging his hands. The red sea reached him and flowed past. He ran. Warehouses flashed by. Ants clung to his thin, hairless legs -- biting, stinging, stinging, stinging. He spotted a deep hole, in the sidewalk filled with clear water. He almost stopped but there was mud at the bottom. Mud nieant settled, radioactive particles and these could enter the cuts in his skin. At the next comer, beside a three-story GE warehouse, sat a small Gulf station with two pumps. Gasoline,... He ran to the nearest pump. The rubberized plastic hose had cracked but it was not brittle. Twisting everything that could be twisted, he pounded here and there. Suddenly gasoline sprayed out of the nozzle and out of twenty places on the hose. Time had built up a great deal of pressure in the storage tank. He sprayed the gas over his legs and the cuts burned worse. But the ants died. Shutting off the hose, he dropped it. His canvas bag fell and he sank to the concrete beside it. His heart raced to catch up with the old body's demands. His back felt wrenched. He pulled up his tom pants and picked off the dead ants. His legs were red and swollen. He knew the poison had given him a fever. His left thigh ached badly and both elbows bled. He could not go on much farther, he realized, and glanced back. T he red sea swarmed five blocks away. Was that as far as he had run? He swallowed his pain. He might die hideously unless he found safety. The Gulf Station was a small building with a flat gravel roof -- but the ants could climb its walls and the roof would offer no safety. He closed his eyes. Please, God, Let me think... Opening his eyes, he gazed at his thin hands, spotted brown with age. Perhaps he had lived long enough. He laughed sardonically and rose. No man lived long enough. He gazed around. He saw two gasoline punips, a large rack of rusting oil cans between them. The gas could kill the ants but how long would the tank's contents last? He had no idea. The buildings were not safe. Shock, time and weather had weakened them. His glance fell again to the rack of rusting oil cans. What if He shot to his feet. What if the oil could keep the ants off? He could not pour it on himself -- but what if he coated the eaves? He found an aluminum ladder, under a rotting tarp. It was sturdy. He put it against the eaves and climbed to the roof. The gravel was dirty but the footing was solid. He took his canvas bag and all the oil cans he could carry to the roof. The top cans on the rack had rusted through and broke when he pried them free but the other cans were good. He pulled the ladder up after him, gazed down at the ants. They were less than a block away... He ran a dirty hand through his thin white hair, grinned at the swarming red mass. "Try and get me now," he challenged, chuckling. He punched two holes into one of the cans, walked to the edge of the roof and started coating the eaves. Here and there he poured too heavily and some dripped to the concrete below. The job took three cans. He tossed the empties into the street. The red advance guard was racing across the pavement. A group of five reached the station wall and began to climb it. They recoiled from the oil. The front ranks reached the gas pumps. They skirted the gas puddle where he had hosed off his legs and went on. Later ranks tried to avoid the puddle but some were pushed into it. More and more fell in to struggle and die. The gasoline puddle vanished. The twin pumps slowly developed a flowing red coat. TTie oil cans in the street #sank beneath the surging sea. Three sides of the station flowed with ants. Some pushed their way into the oil, struggled and slowly drowned. Ottiers crawled over the dying bodies and forced their way up higher. Tlie red slashes thickened as the ants fought to reach the roof. Suddenly they slid. The oil oozed from the eaves, carrying IF the ants with it. The mess splattered to the concrete below. Justin went over his defenses again, reenforcing the places where the oil had grown too thin. The last wall became spotted with inquisitive members of the red army. Startled, he looked around. Again he heard the scream. "Here!" he shouted. The next screams neared. He saw her a block down NW I #. He yelled, waving. She saw him, ran forward. She was blond. Her legs were covered with ants. A pouch slapped at her side. When she was close enough, he dropped the ladder. Ants began scurrying up it. She fell! She screamed, staggered to her feet, beating at her left side. It swarmed with red ants. He gazed in stunned horror. The gasoline,... He hurried down the ladder, scrambled to a pump. "Qose your eyes," he yelled, slapping the ants off the pump and turning the handle. His legs were on fire again -- the ants had reached him. Gasoline sprayed out the nozzle. He hosed his legs, then turned it on her. She groaned at the added pain of the gas. Hosing a path for both of them to the ladder, he dropped the nozzle. The gas spewed, then suddenly dropped to a thin trickle. The tank was spent "Get to the roof -- " She nodded and staggered to the ladder. Racing forward, he helped her climb. She was light. Her hair was long, sun-blanched. Pulling up the ladder, he coolly crushed the ants that clung to it. Using his knife, he opened another quart of oil and went over the defenses again. The woman sat beside the cans, rubbing her swollen legs. "I'm Justin -- ah -- " He frowned, trying to remember. How many times had he recently thought of his name? "Oh -- Parker. Justin Parker." He grinned at her. "Almost forgot it there." She did not smile. Someone had used a knife on her face and the scars had never left. Pocks covered the remaining areas. Her hard gray eyes watched him. Below them her mouth was steel cold. Her brown skin pouch, purse he supposed, rested at her side. "Sorry about those ants," he said, walking over to her. "The stings must hurt." He kneeled beside her. His own legs ached so he could scarcely keep from screaming. "No." Her voice was a loud monotone -- flat, even ugly. "I ignore the pain. The bites do not hurt me as they do you." He grinned. "I should not." Her gray eyes watched him steadily euid she did not smile. "Men cannot take pain. I am a woman and I can." Her voice held the faintest traces of pride. "I'm surprised you're not lying on the ground, yelling." "I'd sure enough like to," he replied with a smile. Rising, he took another can and went back to the eaves. The ants would be on the roof if he ignored the defense. "I'm surprised there are any men here," she stated in her unemotional monotone. "The ones who were chasing me stopped at the city's edge." "You're lucky you got away from them," he said politely. The streetside wall had the thickest coating of ants. In two places they almost came to the roof. "It was not luck," she replied. "I'm braver and stronger -- men are weak fools." "I guess so," he said easily, splashing oil on the two dangerous spots. "It is true," she stated. "At one time I had five of you for slaves but one escaped. I had to kill him." "Where are they now?" he asked in curiosity. He could not believe life outside had become that hard. Slavery? "They died," she said calmly. "Their hearts were not strong and they lost too much blood when I beat them. Then a gang took me and I escaped. That is why I am here." Her voice held no emotion at all -- she was merely telling facts. "I would not have their babies. I'm not a mother." "Can't blame you," he replied. Below, the ants were avoiding the gasoline pools on the concrete. "Well," he cried in mild suprise. "Look there!" T he ants carried tiny bundles wrapped in fragments of grocery bags. Here and there he spotted the winged back of a young king or queen. The woman stepped up to him. "So?" Her monotone sounded disgusted. He glanced up. Her face seemed dead under her gently waving blond hair. "They're carrying bundles," he explained. She turned and walked back to the pile of cans and sat down. "It's a discovery," he added. "Like when we discovered fire." "Oh? Where do you live?" Her voice held no interest. "NW Fifty-eighth Street and Thomas Avenue," he replied. "In the dead zone." He grinned. "Got a nice place there. Basement of a -- " "Oh?" Her rocky eyes watched him. "How did you survive so long?" Shrugging, he poured out the last of the oil, tossed the can to IF the street. The swirling red sea covered it instantly. "I managed," he said. Running his left hand through his thin white hair, he touched the bullet scar hidden there. "Lucky, I guess." She disdained making any rejoinder. "Hey," he "aid in astonishment. "Look at that, will you?" He kneeled at the edge of the roof. The red ants had passed. Behind them came a flowing, swirling sea of black ones. Several yards separated the two armies and, as he watched, the black advance guard went too far and brushed against the red rear guard. The reds attacked and the blacks fell back. Even hungry, the two were enemies. He shook his head. "Sort of reminds you of the War, doesn't it?" he said, glancing back. Her right hand rested in her pouch. "I don't think you're fit," she stated. Her voice seemed as dry and cold as ever. "Only the strongest can survive. You're not strong. You are too old, too thin. You are not fit. You cannot survive. I do not know how you survived so far." He shrugged. "It doesn't take muscle to survive here," he replied. Something in her voice sounded dangerous. She faced his right side but, from where he knelt, she could not see his left. Slowly he reached into his left pocket and grasped the worn handle of his revolver. "You've survived," he added to keep her talking. "So you must know that." Easing the .# out of the leather lining of his pocket, he lowered it to the gravel by his feet. She frowned and he froze. "You're right," she stated emotionlessly. He relaxed. She was worried about his words, not his actions. "I'm not tremendously strong but I have great powers of endurance." She touched a swelling on her left cheek. "I can stand the pain of this ant bite. No man can endure what a woman can." Her right hand came out of her pouch. It held a .# revolver. "A man's only purpose is to be a slave and do heavy work -- but you are unfit." She raised her revolver. "I shall kill you," she stated in her emotionless monotone. H IS .# rested easily in his hand. He smiled at her. "Please don't," he said. The revolver remained level. "You will be alone if you kill me," he added. He did not want to kill her. The War had caused enough death. "No," she replied in her monotone. "I will find 'another man to get my food. You're too weak. I cannot use you." "What's your name?" he asked suddenly. "Edith -- " she broke off. "That's not your business." He cx)uld detect a bit of irritation. "Edith what?" He watched her. She could fire whenever she decided to. But Death was not a way of life. "Edith -- Randal," she replied. Her voice held a bit of pride. Pride? Was pride her weakness? "Edith," he repeated and smiled. "You know, that's German for 'rich-war.' " "Oh?" Suddenly her gray eyes seemed to light. The revolver began to sag in her slender hand. "Yes," he said. "And Randal is -- let's see." He paused and she leaned forward slightly. The revolver sagged a fraction more and he gathered his legs for a leap. "Oh, yes. That's Anglo-Saxon for 'shield-wolf.' " He grinned disalarmingly. " 'Rich-war, shieldwolf.' You have a very strong name." He nodded his approval and her head bobbed slightly in acknowledgment. "You should be proud of a name like that." Her lips twitched. She looked like a snake trying to smile. Her attention was completely on him. It was time. Suddenly widening his eyes he started, staring past her. "Behind you," he shouted. She whirled, firing at the empty air. Dropping his revolver, he leaped. He hit and roUed, turning her under him. She shrieked and scratched at his face. He tore the .# free and hurled it to the street. She squirmed in the gravel, trying to bite him. He grabbed her hair. She growled like an animal. Her fingernails slashed his cheeks. He caught her hands, sat on her belly and waited. She tried to knee him. He bounced once. She gasped for air and lay still. He waited, but she did not struggle. Her stony eyes glared at him. "Go ahead, man," she said without any emotion. "Take me." He grinned in amusement. "I'll take you home," he amended, slowly easing off her. She did lie quietly. "I have some medicine there that'll take care of those ant stings." He smiled warmly. "You'll feel like a new woman." Her eyes gave no sign of any emotion. He stood up. She did not move. "You'll really like the home," he added, walking back for his .#. "I've got the finest bed there I could find in this whole city -- but that'll be yours." He picked it up. "Along with the whole room." He turned. "How -- " She held his hunting knife. Her hand was back to throw it. He shouted and hurtled to one IF side. He fell, rolled, stopped, revolver waist-high and ready. She had not thrown. Suddenly she smiled. "Man, you die!" He fired. One shot was all it took. Rising, he picked up his knife and slid it back into its scabbard. Slipping his revolver back into his left pocket, he looked down. A few feet from her body lay a small splatter of brains and blond hair from his bullet's exit Slowly he kneeled beside her. She was the third human he had killed. The act was always pointless. The War was pointless -- and so were the actions of the ants below. He crossed her thin arms over her chest. "Forgive her, God," he murmured softly. B elow, the black ants were carrying little bundles wrapped in brown paper, just as the red ants had done earlier. He kneeled at the edge of the roof and looked down. What, he wondered, could those bundles be? Intermixed with the package carriers were the young king and queen ants. King and queen? Male and female. Those bimdles held eggs -- protected from the sun. "I'll be damned," he murmured in pleasure. The ants were learning The black ants passed and behind them came small jelly-brown ones. The brown ants' advance guard touched the rear guard of the black army. No -- he looked closer. It did not just touch. Ther small brown ants mixed with the black ones -- and they were not fighting. For the briefest of instants he closed his eyes. "Thank you, God," he whispered. He sat down beside his canvas bag and watched the passing brown sea. They were hungry. He touched the canvas bag. They were hungry in a city of food. He pulled out a can of. peas, looked at it and at his old, thin hand. They were hungry. He hurled the can into the street below. It broke and the peas and juice spread out into a pool. The brown specks swarmed over it. He hurled another, then another. When the brown sea had passed the cans were bare. Rubbing his aching legs, he stared at the empty street. What, he wondered, would they discover next? The wheel? Fire? Lowering the ladder, he slung his empty canvas bag over his thin shoulder and descended. The sun showed late afternoon. He had wasted the day. He shrugged. Tomorrow would be another. Resting a hand on a gas pump, he glanced back at the Gulf station roof. Another very lonely day. He walked home.  This interstellar real estate game is played with planets for marbles, but for values still found only I the bus in the light wind, dropped the stabilizing bars between rows, set a slight negative buoyancy and drilled the hole neck deep. He climbed into the plastic sack and held it up with one hand while he hooked his arm over the boom bar. Ed Deasy took the controls and lowered him into the hole. Jane Clapperton held the sack around his neck and released the expanded mica that buried him in the row of brabbage. They had used sand at first instead of mica, but the sand compacted too much. She then looked at Niall doubtfully, released the delivery tube to suck itself back into the bus and smoothed the mica around his head. It was a dramatic and effective demonstration of what the picker could do -- a human head in a row of brabbage heads. Theoretically at least, the picker would recognize it and pass, not harming it. Niall grinned at the farmers in front of him and twisted his neck to watch Jane walk down the row to the harvester. Ed Deasy lifted the bus and let it drift with the wind before he swung it around the spectators and set it down behind them. The city manager of Hydspe squatted down beside Niall. "How's that foxy bastard, Billy Ballod, these days?" he asked. "No change. Full of hell. What I want to know is why does my nose start itching as soon as I get buried?" The city manager rubbed it with the back of his hand and said, "Have you signed a new contract yet?" I'm not tampering, Niall, but if you haven't, let us put in a bid. I know your time is up tomorrow and there's no renewal option. We don't expect anything like brabbage, of course, but we like your team well enough to make a very attractive offer." "Oh, I don't know," said Niall. "There are a couple of interesting crops we haven't had time to introduce at Avelou. But the three of us figure to go off planet and maybe back to College Station before we go out for bid again. We saved a little money on this contract." "I heard you weren't entirely broke. You think about it. You let us know." He rubbed Niall's nose again before he stepped back with his farmers. t Ct adies and gentlemen," said L Niall, looking up at them from the ground, "this particular field is Avelou seventy-seventy-two brabbage, developed by Jane Clapperton for machine harvesting. It allows a plant population of up to fifty-one thousand heads per hectare. You and I know how good Weather Control is, how you stagger planting for a three-month harvest and get jammed into a two-month period. This is part of why brabbage has been so expensive. And in the state of the art, every city on the planet -- except Avelou -- wisely demands a catch fence to keep the brabbage where it belongs. Since brabbage must be planted on new ground for optimum results, it's not cheap." "You can rotate back every five years," said a farmer. "So you build and maintain five fences instead of none," said Niall. He had an itch above his right ear. The whole demonstration could have been taped but even a three-sixty-degree projection had nowhere near the impact of the real thing out in the valley, downwind of Hydspe, with the tall mesh fences cutting the sky. "With the seventy-seventy-two and the harvester," Niall continued, "you can plant fifteen hectares for every harvester you own. In the open. This allows one hundred per cent safety margin before bolting. Avelou will bond you against any damage on the basis of the harvester recorder." The city manager quoted the truism: "Machines are made by men." "The bond holds. We have a ten-hour repair service to any growing area on Nicosea. If it's a major breakdown we bring a new machine to finish the job. The price of the rig includes a warranty -- also recorded at the Central Bank -- and a repair inspection and certification by us during the off season." "Will you sell the seed separately?" Niall grinned. "You bet we will. But if you plan on machine harvest, just as a friendly suggestion, make damn sure you have somebody like Ed Deasy design your machine. The programing gets a little complex. Did you hear about those greedy people over at Drahnko seventy years ago? No fences, late rain, warm weather. The brabbage berfted. Women and children moved into the city hall and they cleaned the fSters every hour on the hour. Every man was outside in protective gear with a flamethrower for six weeks. You can't trust brabbage." Niall paused. "Other questions? All right, Jane, let her roll." The great red harvester with Avelou's gold circle A on the nose started down the row. One of the farmers asked, "Are you positive this thing works?" Niall grinned. "To tell you the whole truth, sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night to make sure my head is on straight." The farmers laughed. They were a little apprehensive. This was one demonstration that really held their interest. "There are four tests for every head, just as you pick it yourself: color, conformity, solidity and scent. My head's the wrong color; it's irregular, far too solid and no one ever said I smell as nice as a ripe brabbage." Another nervous laugh from the spectators. "This is about our thirty-fifth demonstration. So far I've got the same old head." B rabbage is a plant native to Nicosea and is as interesting to most human beings as catnip to most cats. It is remarkable for its catholic intake of trace elements, including copper, iodine, iron, manganese, zinc, molybderum, cobalt and selenium, with an inhibitory system that limits the IF intake below human toxicity levels in even mineral-rich soils. It contains vitamins A, D, E, K and all of the B complex. Ascorbic acid is adequate at harvest but is lost rapidly in storage. It is low in fats, high in carbohydrates. It is an indicator of lithium in its native condition -- and while it grows well in spodumene, lepiodolite or tetalite, it reaches optimum size in amblygonite. The period of maturity is brief and varies remarkably with the individual plant, with seed, soil, weather and microecological conbelfore maturity, it is slimy. If it bolts, it is actively dangerous. Because of the high solids content, the tissue-thin leaves do not shrink a great deal when dry and the rate of decay is slow. Tenmeter drifts of brabbage leaves have been reported on Jalka Island. The island has never been settled. The leaves barbelate when dry and fragment as they are spun by the wind. In addition, there are three to five hook-shaped seeds on the edge of each leaf, and while the toxin they contain at bolting is not excessively virulent, many a man has died from a thousand needle-hook seeds in his exposed skin. But in the short period, of full maturity between slime and bolting, it is the most attractive vegetable food known to man. "That rig is picking every head," said a farmer. "It's taking every head," shouted Jane Clapperton. "Crawfurd, the odds aren't that good!" "It's the seventy-seventy-two strain," Niall reassured them all. "Did I tell you that the seventyseventy-two hold for up to fifteen weeks in CA storage?" The temperature should be between -- " "I can't stop it!" Jane was struggling with the manual override. "Ed! Ed! Master control!" Deasy sprinted wildly for the back of the bus, leaping over amblygonite containers, shovels, seed vacuums, a dusting skip, the concentrate spray rig and all the other deck paraphernalia. "Box is ginunicked! Won't turn off!" Niall had a glimpse of Jane tearing at the controls cover before the positioning wings shut off the world. The color-sensing circuit passed, the conformity fingers brushed him gently and the amylester analyzer sniffed. The whining saw bar swung down. The great red harvester moved on. "Deary -- medeary -- medeary," babbled a husky farmer. Jane tore out the micrommiaturized computer and the machine stopped. The men swarmed around the harvester and onto it. With set jaw and a white face she tripped the toggle that opened the hopper. The harvested heads lay in cradled rows. Brabbage is tender at maturity and the market value is determined to a degree by the amount of bruising. Bruises make for offflavor and go deep. The stem is fibrous and is covered with an extremely hard dermal layer. Hand harvesting is done by two men, one with a power saw and the other holding the head. The brabbage in the hopper was clean cut and unbruised. There was a wasp-buzz of horror and one of the women bit off a shriek. Ed Deasy was beside Jane now, and he slowly reached into the hopper and pushed the local control knob that activated the elevators. There was dead silence as the machinery brought up and cradled the last picked heads. II E rasmus Ballod stood at a window overlooking Avelou and said mournfully, "How can they do this to me? I treat them like two sons and a daughter and this is the thanks I get." His shoulders slumped in self-pity. Aside from the central service core, the mayor's quarters were open. His greatest pleasure was to look out over his city. He had commissioned sixty-four peegee units at College Station after finding and looting an undiscovered outrider planet. He had acquired Avelou and rebuilt the city on the hills above the bay with a permanent gravity unit under each building. It was quite economical. Just drill a hole, drop in a unit and layer your offices or apartments above it. The buildings stuck out in all directions, each one vertical to the people inside, with the rest of Nicosea tilted. Avelou was unique in the Comity of Worlds. City planners and architectural critics applauded or deplored it about equally. City hall alone was vertical to the horizon and Ballod lived on the top floor. He was amused by the critics and the birds, who took careless liberties with other cities but became flummoxed in the gravitic fields above Avelou. A fish-eating neagle lurched by with comical screams of outrage. Ballod ignored him. "I don't expect gratitude," he whined. "Just a little kindliness, a little consideration. Is that too much to ask?" The chief justice yawned and tapped his mouth with two fingers. Then he put his fingertips together and coughed a dry, legal cough. He was tired of Ballod's feeling sorry for himself and the mavor reacted predictably. "God damn your bones." This was Bully Ballod. "Where the hell were you when I signed that contract?" "I was right there, advising you to omit that paragraph. And you know it." IF i Bailed snarled and turned to he window again. The morning lun sparkled on the bay. The I'-ainers were at work in the new olphin pens. The Marina had ighty-eight per cent occupancy. I ardcners were landscaping the leasure Cube. To the south was i he Space Airport with Ballod's vn deep-space Little Sister oming dull bronze among the rightly colored pleasure craft, i Jorth and south and running to j he mountains were the slowly naturing fields of beautiful, profitable, dangerous brabbage. "But who would believe that en per cent of the net profits at he end of a five-year contract hose sneaky agricultural basiards started from scratch." "How much did they earn for iVelou?" "I hit those damn farmers vith every expense I can think f with the wage-healthn s u r a n ce-cducation-vacationctirement package, computer i ime, pro-rata defense, land leases, )nstruction overhead, equipment ciital, city services and machinehop depreciation. If we had mice, 'd charge for wear and tear on aps." Bailed sighed. "And now ours tomorrow. Come or, now," e wheedled, "Tell me how not to ay them. How do I get out ot lis? That's what I want to know." # #Tf you default payment." Xsaid the chief justice, "the judgment in their favor will take four days. The Central Bank will honor the obligation and seize the city. Nicosea was discovered and divided some one-hundred-fiftysix years ago by a consortoriiim newly organized by the shrewdest busine-s attorneys from eight c o mmcrcially oriented planets. The law is explicit. There are no loopholes." "All right," said Ballod, "go on." The chief justice ticked off the points on his fingers. "One. Offer a cash sum and payments with attractive interest." "They want off planet, out of the credit union." "Two. An enticing contract for another year." "How do you entice somebody "Three. Borrow the money." "There are other obligations. If you ask how much it costs to build a city, you can't afford it. Racing dolphins come high, and that's the only Pleasure Cube in twohundred-thirty-five or so liaht-ycars. And the Marina and those damned expensive entertainers and hell, there's no end." "Four. Pay off in stock." Ballod waited. He had spent five years looting a primitive planet. He had worked with the natives, married three women, run his loot until it was no longer possible to hide his depredations and the peculations of the men he subverted. When necessary, he had an inexhaustible patience. He had put the experience of a lifetime, his luck and all his loot into Avelou. It was the pleasure capital of a world. The profits were enormous even now and he had plowed them back into development. The Pleasure Cube was his last major investment and the sweats would become a flood. hours would be small change. "Five. Sell out." A forced sale would not return ten minutes on the hour. "Six. Abrogate all contracts. Liquidate everything. Steal what's loose and take off in that superhot combination freighter, null-time cathouse, battleship and yacht you keep over in the port eating its head off." Ballod grinned. "The girls have been out of there for the past two years. Fuel doesn't deteriorate and the stores are good for another ten years. Did I ever tell you about that double-jointed redhead from Mier with the blond lanuga hair? Forget it. Sister costs nothing on standby." "It's a nonproductive investment." "Point of view. My pleasure. Conspicuous consumption. Tin sentimental," said Ballod with a wolfish smile. "What else?" The chief justice fixed the master of Avelou with a cold legal eye. "Seven. Shoot yourself." Ballod laughed. His hot blue eyes crinkled and his ruddy complexion flushed. He bellowed with amusement. The chief justice's thin lips split in an unconscious smile of great charm. Years ago and parsecs away he had come close to being a great man on another world and when his hopes degringoladed, he was rescued from obloquy and shameful death by Erasmus Ballod. With dreams dead, his only interest was in the legal jigsawery of Avelou. The mayor wiped his eyes. "I ought to put you to skinning malfeasances and tanning the hides with torts. Any more helpful suggestions?" "I wrote my contract, Mr. Mayor. Read it before you try." Ballod put a hand on his shoulder and asked quietly, "What shall I do now, John?" T he chief justice cleared his throat. He had been with Ballod a long time. Ballod was the source, of the complexities that alone made life endurable. "Billy, I thoroughly approved when you decided to broaden the economic base. You have accomplished this in agriculture, and light manufacturing follows. You selected a magnificent Ag team. I blame myIF self for not keeping an eye on the finances." "Not your business, John. I assign responsibilities." "Can't you find the money somewhere?" "Consortorium law holds -- no off-planet investment capital without consent of eighty per cent of the owners. My peers don't know I'm strapped, or they'd be on me like buzzards on a gut. They hate me now and in two years I'll have to cut them in on the action -- but at a price, John, at a price -- " He patted the chief justice on the shoulder and began to pace the floor. "Another assessment? Discount franchise prepayments? There are some disadvantages to owning almost everything myself -- " His lips puckered in a soundless whistle. People who worked with Ballod had learned not to disturb him when he wore this blank expression, whistled silently and paced. He was a man so rock-certain of himself that he could indulge his whims carelessly, entertained by gambling, technical expertise and women, by food and shoptalk and gossip, by a thousand apparent irrelevancies while he prowled his world in a dozen disguises of humor, anger, good fellowship and rage. He could even deceive his chief justice, who waited now with no impatience on the master of Avelou. "Is your office safe?" Ballod snorted. "If you are contemplating assassination, my advice is no. A triple damage fee on a projected earnings basis to College Station as their designate would be disastrous. Your Ag team has perthey overlooked was the precaution of an escrow for their ten per cent. They are not fools. Jane Clapperton is devious as a spider web. Ed Deasy is so crooked he screws on his boots -- and Crawfurd Niall? That young man is actively dangerous. He can see the obvious." Ballod whistled soundlessly. The cold amber eyes of the chief justice dropped. "Sweet reason," said Ballod softly. "I contemplate only an appeal to sweet reason... If you want a thing done well," he added after a pause, "you must do it yourself." The attention light on his desk began to blink slowly. "Now damn it, Katie!" he roared. "No calls, no nothing I told you, damn it!" Women were never afraid of Ballod. "You also said you wanted to know when the Ag team returned. Well, they have. Sold five harvesters to Hydspe. All papers signed. Now, do you want any more calls or are you still out of town?" "Thank you Katie. No calls yet." He touched the plate to off and turned to the window again. Another neagle flopped by outside, cursing the gravities. Bailed laughed without humor. "If you want a thing done well, do it yourself," he said tonelessly. Ill Lour Valley to the east of Avelou stood an outcrop of rock. It was relatively flat and about a quarter of a hectare in extent. The packing and supply sheds took up most of the space but at the highest point of the rock the Ag team had built an orchard operations headquarters complete with beds, a small kitchen and a gazebo on top for control, pleasure and observation. "Have you ever noticed," asked Crawfurd Niall, "how every little group of men makes beer? Beer is a universal truth. When you stop and think about it, a galaxy full of suds is sort of awe-inspiring." "Stop driveling," said Jane Qapperton. "It's kind of inspirational," Niall went on dreamily. "The conquest of space-time and all that, on a foaming crest, a beautiful breaking wave of -- " "All right," said Jane. "What happyened back there?" She tapped the floor with the toe of a boot. Ed Deasy came up the stairwell with bottles under his arm. "Pest exterminators on. We should have put a cooler up here. You wanted cider, Jane?" Niall kissed the label of the bottle and levered off the wedge top. Bubbles creamed to the surface. He drank deep, looked at Jane and licked off the white mustache with a gourmet tongue. "I have always wondered whether it is better to let the foam dry and then lick, or -- don't throw that, Jane -- I suppose there are some things man is not meant.to know. All right. I saw old Billy Ballod in a work suit Harun-al-Rashiding around that harvester this morning before we took off  -- but everybody knows that electricians are crazy. When Ed plugged it in right, they bought five, didn't they?" Deasy said, "Next year brabbage isn't going to be worth two minutes a kilo. Exporting in controlled-atmosphere freighters could be the answer. New freight line might just pay off." Jan Qappperton glared at them both. "I had a shiver down my back," said Niall soberly. "When you poured in that vermiculite I got to thinking about Ballod and how I wouldn't look so good without a head, so I stuck my elbows out." took about a third of what it usually takes. You had enough room to duck. That's not what I'm talking about. When we were lifting over the mountains, coming home, you two tore that power room apart and threw something over, and down into the canyon depths -- " "I had a real attack of the stupids not to think of it sooner," said Niall. "It was just a little fire. I think it was a destruct on the interrupter. We threw both overboard while we were still gaining altitude. That's why the interrupter didn't work." "Barometric triggering device," said Deasy. "Armed on first landing. Set to interrupt aggie unit when pressure dropped. Old idea. Good idea if it works." Jane shuddered. "I can understand wanting to kill Crawfurd," she said. "But why me?" "With me headless in Hydspe," said Niall, "you two would still collect the team money. But after my pitiful accident two suicides might have a sincere look, especially in an MH-#-thousand bus." It was dusk by now. The little fixed-distance lasers were snapping at a new hatch of coddling moths in the apple orchard below them. The moths made tiny puffs of flame and occasionally there was a series of crackling firepoints when leafhoppers jumped into the lasef in alarm. A crawly-crawly jacked itself out of the ground from time to time and the lasers blipped until movement stopped. "Question of money," said Deasy. Niall said, "Don't forget that Ballod was successful in a dangerous and damn unsavory profession. In times of danger, Bdlod will return to the old pattern of Looter." "I can see that," said Jane. "Is he short of money?" "Who wants to pay?" asked Deasy. "Five years ago, before we signed the contract, we talked about this very thing. We could have written in a monthly or semiannual settlement of our percentage but we took a gamble. We guessed right. A cash lump sum is always a shock but I never expected to give Billy this big a shock. He's overreacting. Maybe, we can keep him off balance." 'It's all right to be smartsy" said Jane, "but it's like teasing a tiger. How smart are we to stay here?" "Dear Jane, if we were smart we never would have started this journey. When Ballod's dumb brother kidnapped us and died -- we could have gone home. Instead we took that leaky tub into the Comity of Worlds. I don't know if we're smart to stay here or not -- but granted our goals, there's nothing else we can do. Besides, Ed and I took a few precautions." "It's just that sometimes I feel time and circumstances breathing down my neck," she apologized. "I got my doodle out of the shop," said Deasy. "Ballod's seen me working on it for three years off and on." "I went to Parts Supply and visited every harvester Avelou owns while you filled out papers in the office, Jane. I packed some baggage. Those five machines mean another MH-#-thousand owing us. We've got to tighten the screws on Ballod until he squeaks." orchard a laser shuttered. This was uncommon because the native animals had learned to stay away from the twenty-meter cleared zone around the trees. "Did we ever tell anyone about the anti-vermin defense?" asked Niall mildly. "Perimeter lasers have rheostats," said Deasy. "No use shooting mice with elephant guns. Natives restless tonight." The overheads cut in. They found targets and suddenly rocket trails seared the night sky in colorful arcs away from the orchard. The perimeter lasers were active. A burned tang hung in the air. The lasers faltered momentarily and the lights dimmed. The standby generator droned to Hfe and picked up the load. Shouting and angry voices came from the distance -- and a constant soft blittering as the lasers hit targets. Deasy extended the range of the overheads and at once there were fireworks in the sky. Shortly silence fell, broken only by an occasional snapping at moths. Deasy said with satisfaction, "Very pretty installation, if I did it myself. Worth every second we paid for it." "Stupid, stupid, stupid," said Niall. "It's not only the wrong season for stealing apples -- but if we got killed the College Station contract examiners would find at least one of those idiots eager for informatioh money. I wonder if they were firemen or the fuzz. I'd like to think that Billy Ballod's getting senile." The phone buzzed and Niall answered. The mayor grinned and said, "We're having the opening ceremonies at the Pleasure Cube tonight. All Division heads will be there. Twenty-two hundred." "Our time is your time." The two men smiled at each other and the mayor cut off. "Until noon," Niall added. Jane Clapperton watched them both and found it difficult to choose between the two smiles. Either one should have frosted the liquid crystal phone plate. IV E rasmus Ballod stood out resplendent in Avelou red with a frothy jabot of gold shimmering IF in the light, greeting his guests and thoroughly enjoying himself. "Swelled up big as a toad," whispered Jane Clapperton as she and Deasy and Niall walked into the Pleasure Cube. They and women congratulating Ballod at the entry to the great lobby. The lobby was so complex a maze of color, perfume, lights and music that Ballod himself, with his overwhelming curiosity about the workings of men and machinery, did not attempt to see it as a whole. It was segmented into thirty-seven zones, each distinguished from any other by sound and scent barriers, by decor, by the food, drink and drugs available in each. The intent of the lobby was that customers would gravitate to the area that most fully met their inclinations and explore pleasure from that zone. The entry was essentially neutral. The air was negatively charged. The humidity was low and the scent was high country. Ballod had a glass in his hand, and beamed at a pretty woman. "Stay out of the yellow," he whispered loudly and winked. "Sex is not a spectator sport to me. But there are others, madam, there are others." A lively little man asked him if he had tried all the zones. "Not on your life, sir. If you come across a weepy, bathetic pink area, that's one I couldn't stick." He laughed joyously. "And what I had to say about a pure white zone should have sooted the walls." Ballod was charming. He greeted the Ag team with high good spirits. His eyes reflected the real pleasure he took in their presence. Jane wore filmy gray and a few gold spangles to accent her straw-gold hair. Deasy was lean in rust and red and Niall was elegant in powder blue. "Been grubbing in the dirt, I see," said Ballod. "How nice of you to ask us to your party," said Jane, and curtsied. Deasy offered a thin-lipped grin and the mayor and Niall touched palms with no hesitation. "It's all on the house tonight," said Ballod. "Go where you want to go, do what you want to do. Have fun. Be happy." He opened his arms to give them the f.reedom of the Pleasure Cube, and turned to greet others. "Remarkable man," said Deasy. "Let's go see what Billy hath wrought," said Niall. "He is a complete and perfect bastard," said Jane softly. The entry was at one end of the lobby and raised above the general level of the floor. While it was perfectly possible to pull a string tight from one end of the lobby to the other, the eye was so constantly distracted, the senses so beguiled that it was impossible in fact to see from one end to the other. There were islands and alcoves and balconies with floor coverings and ceiling height appropriate to the zone. In common, they each had a door which led to intense indulgence of the pleasure suggested by the zone. T he joy of childhood was to one side and cuddly creatures scrambled over the rug to pick up cookie crumbs. There was a quiet library with lamps for scholars -- Niall walked over to smell the leather bindings and dust and floor polish. There was a torture chamber, dimly lit and smoky orange. There was a beach with waves lapping onto the sand. There was aching young love with lilacs laden with raindrops. "Original was designed in College Station as exercise for psychological engineers," said Deasy. "Ruler of stinking little planet had all the erotica built for private pleasure. He died in three months, happy as a clam. This is the third Cube in the galaxy -- and the biggest by far." "You have to walk through the store to get to the beer," said Niall, examining the yellow zone dispassionately. They strolled on past mother love and a gymnasium redolent of sweat and a noisy bar and a chess island. Jane said, "The last thing I believe in is 'natural' man -- and yet I cannot help but wonder if synthetic reality will not be Armageddon. My feet hurt." "Not here." Niall led her past a warm orchid area where sex was both participation and exotic. "Let's try this place. We'll add a little color to the heavenly scene. What happens when you g o through a door?" he asked Deasy. "Hypnospray to fix your inclination, chronoleptogenic to give you a long ride -- then total involvement mental and physical. You get unscrambled at the end. Ninety-nine and 'seventy-five per cent unscrambled." "Is that figure any good?" asked Niall. "No," said Deasy. Niall stared. "All mechanical?" "Of the very first chop," said Deasy indignantly. "Aside from the mechanics it takes two men to run this place. A ticket taker and a standby psychiatrist. Technologically, nothing can compare with a Pleasure Cube." Erasmus Ballod found them all in there wrangling a m i c ably about who would get the next round of beer from the bar down the way. None of them cared for the ambrosia and nectar immediately available. "I hoped you would try a door," said Ballod. "That would have kept you happy for six months. Let's get out of here. The whole goddam place gives me the creeps." IF V # #"That's the way it is," said A Bailed, who was asking for understanding in dignified simplicity. He stood by the window overlooking Avelou, his face calm and sincere. "Then what do you propose," said Niall, lounging in a deep chair. Jane sat on a footstool beside him, her back very straight; she was studying Ballod's face. Deasy straddled a chair with his arms folded on top, his chin in his hands. "We want our money," said Jane. "The exact amount is MH#, #, #, including yesterday's percentage," said Deasy. Ballod sat behind his desk and chuckled. "Five years ago you were three youngsters up for bid at College Station. My bid was modest and lower than two others, except for the percentage. And now you are in a position to dictate to me, to threaten the prise. How do you account fpr this?" He wanted to know. He was genuinely curious. "Ten per cent of the net on apples and brabbage," said Jane. "Comprehensive understanding of growing, breeding, marketing and sub-contract manufacture," said Deasy. "Your noninterference. And you might have found a clue in our release price from College Station. You bought us out very cheap, Mr. Mayor." Ballod whistled soundlessly as he met Niall's eyes. "True enough," he said slowly. "I noticed that and never followed it up -- Then your education was not entirely at College Station. Tell me this -- were you waiting for me?" "We were just lucky, I guess. We wanted to make money." "You have, my boy. No question." Ballod's smile was a little wry. "Now, let me make a suggestion. Let me pay you a nominal sum now, say MH-one hundred thousand and at the end of a year I will pay you MH-one can draw it up as a primary lien against the city guaranteed by the Central Bank. You will make twenty per cent or your money by your forbearance -- roughly ten years' wages apiece on the salary scale at which you signed the contract. No restrictions on your activities. Take another job. Go back to College Station. Buy land on an open planet. Do precisely as you please." "We want our money now," aid Jane. Ballod looked at her quizzically. "When you have enough money," he mused, "money becomes a counter in a game. It's a tally, a method of keeping score. You sleep in one bed, you put on your pants one leg at a time, you have limited physical capacity for any indulgence." He turned to Niall. "What game are you playing? What is it you want?" "Not your city and not your power." "You may have me between a hard place and a rock." said Bailed, "but do not be too greedy." "Is Little Sister fueled? Stores aboard? Ready for space?" "Yes." "We'U take it." B allod half rose, stared at them and sat down. Blood flushed his face. He raised his voice and it had a metallic edge, "All right, John. I tried your way. Now I'll try my own." The chief justice came in with two laser hand guns. He looked ill but deadly. "All peegee units have modifiers," said Deasy. "Otherwise you couldn't move them." "No goddam idle threats from you stinking intransigent sons-ofbitches!" roared Ballod, suddenly losing control. "You had those peegee units manufactured at College Station," said Niall. "The modifier is in the deepest vault of Central Bank. Get up and get out." "I made another," said Deasy. "Took me three years. You overcharged us on the computer time. Microminiaturized, here it is. Short range. Not selective. All sixty-four peegee units under Avelou will go null at once. City hall is on natural gravity. We'll be all right here." "Ed built in an interesting electroencephalographic switch," drawled Niall. "It activates if you take him away from it." "Bluff," snarled Ballod, "nobody can duplicate a peegee modifier." "Best I could do with such little control was set minimum for one second." "Want a second's worth of proof?" asked Niall. Ballod wheeled and walked to the window. His city glowed softly in the night. The casinos never closed. There were people in the parks. A small boat with a luminiscent sail was tacking out of the bay. The buildings of Avelou loomed in the night sky at all angles. "Fifty thousand blameless men and women," he growled. "Restaurants are open, theaters are full. One of those apartments is a nursery. I don't know how many children are there tonight." He looked at Jane and said mournfully, "Would you kill all those babies and innocent children?" "Once it is determined that a women will sell," said Jane, "all that remains to be determined is the price. Old joke. And once it has been determined that a man wiU kiU -- " IF "You immoral monster! You have no compassion, no sense of -- " blurted the chief justice. # A ND you, sir," said Jane ,with the same slow voice, "sold the resources of a planet to a Looter. You were a knowing catspaw when you arranged the cinnebar leases to Looter Ballod. What were you paid for your betrayal of the United Nations? What were you paid for the sixtyfour thousand tons of liquid mercury Ballod stole from Earth? Your name is reviled in a hundred tongues. Traitor is an abominable word in Interlingua -- or English." The old man shriveled before their eyes. "We learned to operate the magnetic flow mining equipment Ballod had to abandon," said Niall, "but do you know what a flask of mercury sells for now? What it sold for when we left, when Ballod's stupid brother looked us up and kidnapped us? One flask, seventy-six pounds of mercury, two hundred and seventyfive thousand dollars." "How could your own people reach the stars without mercury?" asked Jane. "Not so religious on Earth any more," said Deasy. "Don't hear much about Judas Iscariot. Got another name we use." The chief justice shook. His face wrenched and his eyes went wild. Ballod shot him when he raised a pistol. He slumped to the rug with the rictus still on his lean skull face. "He was going to shoot himself," obsened Jane. "Billy was just protecting the modifier," said Niall. "Very sensible. Just suppose the old man plugged Ed. Down tumbles Avelou." "Nice thing about lasers," said Deasy. "They cauterize. No blood on rug. Very tidy." Ballod breathed hard. His golden jabot shimmered. "You three belong to a human branch that should be cut off. I never should have traded the location of your rotten planet to my brother. He would have sold Avelou cheap enough. It was a tumbledown village -- " His voice faded as he looked at his city on the hills. "All right," he said. He straightened. His face went hard. He was filled with menace. "Give me the modifier. Take the ship." "Easy," said Niall. "Let's go to the Central Bank and register Little Sister to us." "God, how I despise you!" "Sincerity at last," said Jane. "Come along to spaceport," said Deasy. "Got our baggage there. You give us clearance." "Hold on just one minute," said Ballod, in control of himself again. "How do I know I can trust you?" Jane smiled, Deasy snickered and Niall said wearily, "We are from Avelou. Bailed did not spare supposed to trust you?" it a glance. He walked to the weapons tower. He rousted out the VI duty officer and had the room to himself. He programed and A ll the formalities were comfired a missile. He called Little pleted. The eastern sky was Sister when she was three diamlightening as Little Sister lifted eters out. Three hated faces appeared in the screen. "Short-range modifier?" said Ballod. "Just one more thing. Glad you called, Billy -- " began Niall. "Your stinking race can rot on Earth. You've got three minutes to live." "Brabbage," said Niall. "Billy buddy, you told us to plant just one helluva lot of it around Avelou and you're surrounded by thirty thousand hectares. There aren't enough flamethrowers on the planet to do the job before bolting. Call off your dogs." "You didn't take the harvesters with you." Niall held up a computer. "Got all these with us," he said. "Nice of you to help us load the baggage. Manufacturing lead time on computers for harvesters is three months -- " "Got it down to nine weeks," said Deasy. "Ever see pictures of Jalka Island?" asked Jane. "The seventyseventy-two strain produces a bigger head -- " "Bury Avelou thirty meters deep -- " Ballod's face was iron as he pressed missile destruct. "Fair's fair," said NiaU. "We'll mail the computers back from Colege Station." Ballod laughed. He bellowed with amusement. His blue eyes crinkled and his face turned red. He wiped the tears from his eyes. "Any other tricks up your sleeves?" he asked. None of the three had smiled. "We'll send the modifier with the computers," said Niall. "Ballod was right," said Deasy. "Never could solve that key. It was a bluff." "Shall we mail the bluff with switch on or off?" asked Jane, Ballod stared at them. "And some people call me ruthless!" "Goodbye, Daddy," said Jane. "We're half-brothers and sister. Your three wives -- our mothers -- don't exactly send their love, but I think we'll be welcome back on Earth with a starship." "Why did you tell him that, Jane?" asked Niall. "And, Daddy, one more thing. We are your children. But I wouldn't be easy to find in another six months if I were you." She turned to Niall. "I don't like Lx)oters." "Gives pop something to think about," said Deasy. They laughed together as the iron entered Ballod's soul and their faces faded, that peculiar Earthman's laughter that was to become so well known in the Comity of Worlds as time went on.  Coming in next month's IP James Tiptree, Jrs novelette about the hot test ship on star patrol. Every man aboard has a minority problem, a space problem -- and the same damn girl problem! Irwin Ross's tangy tale of indestructible aliens who bring microwar to an Earth accustomed to miniwars. Barry Alan Weissman's backward glance from time ahead to time now -- or maybe a little later than now. A strangely touching and tender story! Alfred Coppers appraisal of an America ruled by warring women and subverted by wild men... IF Willy Ley OF #. The First Traces Of Life T he most important event in the early history of our earth, as far as we are concerned -- and observers from another planet would probably agree -- was the beginning of life. But this event had to be preceded by another -- the formation of liquid water. Our earth and the other planets of the solar system are the results of an accumulation of matter from a cosmic cloud. Zones of condensation must have existed in that cloud -- places where the dust and gas began to form local aggregations that then tightened because of the mutual gravitational attraction of the component parts. Once these local aggregations were massive enough, they began sweeping up whatever additional matter they encountered. But the condensation of matter and the sweeping up of additional matter mean that an endless number of collisions between the particles takes place and when particles hit, their kinetic energy is largely changed into another form of energy, namely heat. So the whole must grow hot. It is not possible to give a figure for the temperature of the earth during its process of formation. It certainly was far above the boiling point of water. On the other hand, it certainly was not as hot as the outer layers of our sun which have a temperature of # centigrade, corresponding to about # Fahrenheit. The temperature at which iron melts, # centigrade, corresponding to # Fahrenheit, or a few hundred degrees above that temperature, seems a reasonable guess. Which makes the earth -- at one time in its history -- a large ball of molten rock surrounded by an atmosphere hundreds of miles in depth and hot by our standards, yet cooler than the body of the earth itself. The bulk of this atmosphere consisted of hydrogen and helium but it also contained other gases that are not elements but chemical compounds. Such compounds, in order to remain stable, need temperatures below # Fahrenheit -- at higher temperatures compounds fall apart. The original mixture of elements that formed the earth must have contained a certain amount of oxygen -- and since oxygen is a rather active element it combined with everything within reach, once the temperature was down to a point where compounds could form. The oxygen combined with hydrogen to form water (because of the still high temperature the water was gaseous) ; it combined with sulfur to form sulfur dioxide and with carbon to form carbon dioxide. The hydrogen was active, too. It combined with nitrogen to form ammonia, with carbon and nitrogen to form hydrogen cyanide, with chlorine to form hydrochloric acid, with carbon to form methane and so forth -- a whole range of substances with simple molecules. The hydrogen that remained free -- because there was nothing left with which it might have formed compounds -- gradually escaped into space, as did the helium that does not combine with anything. As the earth cooled, its atmosphere grew smaller and denser; for a time it may have contained mercury compounds in the form of vapors, similar to those believed to be present in the atmosphere of Venus. As the cooling progressed the temperature, in some places, must have gone below # degrees Fahrenheit. The water vapor then became water, trying to fall as rain. Of course the rain that formed in the upper and cooler layers of the atmosphere did not reach the ground. As it fell down into hotter atmospheric layers it evaporated again. But this evaporation removed heat from the surrounding gases that thereby grew heavier and continued the downward movement, forcing lighter and hotter gases up. This process created vertical convection currents that carried hot gases into IF the upper layers, where they radiated their heat away into space. It can easily be seen that such convection currents accelerated the cooling process, for naturally a hotter body radiates its heat away faster than a cooler body. It does not matter whether the "body" in question is a gas, a liquid or a solid. In time the rain did reach the ground. tains at the time we could assume that the rain-forming activities were strongest in the vicinity of such mountains, the liquid water cascading down the mountainsides, returning from the hot lowlands as water vapor to the higher layers of the atmosphere. The result would have been steadily growing circles of rainfall, each with a mountain in its center. However, we don't know whether there were tall mountains on the early earth and several reasons exist to doubt it. But there must have been cool spots in the atmosphere, for rain did fall and gradually the steady downpour that had started in only a few places spread out and cooled the surface rocks until water remained water. The first pools that filled natural depressions were boiling hot -- but they remained liquid. And hot water is more effective for dissolving minerals than cold water, so that all the early bodies of water were a thin broth of a number of minerals. Many of the compounds that floated around in the atmosphere, especially the carbon dioxide, were water-soluble, too, so that the early pools were solutions of almost anything. This phenomenon formed the background for the emergence of life. As we now know -- and can demonstrate in chemical laboratories -- such a solution, with an atmosphere holding methane and ammonia above it, will produce "peculiar" chemicals if energy is supplied. The energy in question could be either electrical discharges -- like lightning -- or ultraviolet radiation that forms a part of sunlight. The peculiarity of the chemicals mentioned above is that all are found in living tissues in our own time -- they are "organic" molecules which include some of the so-called amino acids which are, in turn, building blocks of the proteins. It is quite conceivable that this process still occurs in nature in a few places on earth -- but if it does happen the results will disappear fast. They will be eaten up by existing microscopic life forms. When it happened for the so before the beginning of the Cambrian period, there were no microorganisms. Hence the amino acids and other "organic" molecules could accumulate and fuse into still larger molecules. A living cell -- let us use the term, though it is by no means certain that it applied to those earliest super-molecules -- shows that it is alive by doing at least four things. The first is that it ingests "foreign" substances -- substances chemically different from those in its own physiognomy. Next it digests these foreign substances by first breaking them down into simpler chemical compounds and then reassembling these to form the more complicated compounds in its own makeup. In this process some material is inevitably left over as either useless or surplus -- this is the "waste matter" discharged by the living body. The third feature of a living cell is that it grows in size and bulk. Fourth, it produces or reproduces its own kind. For some time the early life on the young earth was in a precarious situation. It could only eat those mediumcomplicated molecules that had arisen from the action of ultraviolet radiation on the naturally occurring simple molecules. There must have been cases where the appetite of the living cells exceeded the supply of foodstuffs produced by chemical reactions. No doubt there were local extinctions. The living cells had to learn that something could be done with sunlight directly -- they had to invent what we now call photosynthesis. Once the process was working, its possessors did not need the amino acids and other substances of that type -- they could operate on dissolved minerals, carbon dioxide and sunlight. The first plants fit the above category -- the earlier life forms that did not have photosynthesis must, of necessity, be considered ultra-primitive animals. Of course they were succeeded by not quite so primitive animals, namely those that ate the plants that had created supplies of organic compounds by photosynthesis in their own bodies. Fortunately for the continued existence of earthly plants and, through them, of life in general, the primitive life forms that must be called animals did not specialize in eating chlorophyll-bearing plants only. They ate what got in their way, whether amino acids that were still formed by chemical action, or plants, or other animals. Presumably they pushed evolution by behaving competitively. It can be taken for granted that not even the largest of these early life forms could be seen by an unaided eye. But where they were numerous, say in a nearly closed bay, they mit have been collectively visible as a faint clouding of the water. I T IS strange that this very modem concept sounds a bit iF like the repetition of an evolutionary concept of a hundred years ago. At that time you could read that life had probably begun as "primordial ooze" in the seas. The term was a polite translation of the German word Urschleim which really means primordial mucus, but the idea was that the first life forms were not yet separated into individuals but formed a jellylike covering of the bottom. At one time it was even thought that the jelly had been discovered. The first major oceanographic expedition, that of HM.S, Challenger, had collected numerous samples of bottom mud from several oceans. The bottom mud was put into nice sterile glass jars which were then filled with pure alcohol to keep it from deteriorating. Some years later somebody looked at one of these jars and discovered a very faint clouding. It was barely visible but it was there and it seemed as if a small quantity of the Urschleim Professor Ernst von Haeckel in Germany was always talking about had been captured by accident. Thomas Huxley decided that this was so and named it Bothybius haeckeli -- after Dr. Haeckel -- who was greatly pleased, of course, but he had occasion to be violently displeased a number of years later. A British chemist wanted to know more about the Bathybius haeckeli, acquired a surplus jar in which it was present and set out to analyze it. He discovered that the clouding phenomenon was not at all organic in origin. It was strictly a chemical precipitate that had originated because of the interaction of the "preserving" alcohol with the bottom mud. Still, the water of a bay in Precambrian times could have looked as if Haeckel's Urschleim were present -- but it consisted of a very large number of separate living units. If the majority of the living units in a certain body of water were plants the clouding might have looked greenish. Of course the plants (and the animals that depended upon them) lived mainly near the shore, where the mineral content of the water was high. Bays must have been the most logical places or else the areas where a river brought rainwater into the sea, carrying more minerals. It must be kept in mind that in Precambrian times the difference in saltiness between the ocean and a river was still rather miilor. By now the seas are salty because rivers, working day and night for many hundreds of millions of years, have leached out the minerals from the soils of the continents and carried them into the oceans. When ocean water evaporates to become water vapor the minerals are left behind in the ocean and the water vapor, after it has drifted over the land, R# condensed and fallen as rain, brings more dissolved minerals to the seas. Nowadays the difference between Ocean water and river water is pronounced -- but in Precambrian times the process had only recently begun. Plants, when they build their bodies of sunlight, carbon dioxide and trace minerals, produce a waste product -- free oxygen. The main waste product of oxygenbreathing animals is carbon dioxide and a nice balance would seem to have been established right from the beginning. However, since all this began at a time when free oxygen hardly existed, the early "animals" probably were not oxygen breathers. They utilized their food not by oxidation but by fermentation, a process that yields far less energy but does not require oxygen. In fact the fermentation processes we know usually release some oxygen too. As a result, free oxygen was returned into an atmosphere that had been deficient in oxygen for and the next revolution in the evolution of life was the emergence of the oxygen-breather who, by utilizing a different chenucal process (namely oxidation) became a far more efficient animal. None of this can be read from the fossil record -- in fact, the absence of a fossil record is the main characteristic of the Precambrian sediments. Nor is the lack of such a record difficult to explain. All living things were tiny and the normal end of their lives was to be swallowed by something faster, bigger or stronger. And since they were all freefloating organisms, none of them had any need for hard parts of the body to serve as strengthening members. Consequently there were no hard parts to fossilize, not even parts hard enough to cause an impression in soft mud that by a combination of lucky chances might be preserved for posterity. Early in this century virtually every book on geology carried a drawing of something called Ech zoon canadense, the "dawn animal from Canada." It was a piece of striated rock which could be the remains of a very early sponge, or else a colony of early and primitive corals. Of course it could also be something that had no living relatives -- at any event it was revered as the oldest known fossil. As time went on Eozoon canadense was as quietly dropped as Haeckel's Urschleim, If I remember correctly it turned out that the rock in which Eozoon was found turned out to be much younger than Precambrian stuff. H owever, a small number of fossils of Precambrian age are now known. A comparatively good one recently turned up in eastern Transvaal. It consists of IF a small clot of microscopic algae, means of dating. And since cvosome spherical in shape, some lution in Precambrian days seems looking like filaments, some formto have been slow there is another less. Even the largest could only difficulty -- two fossils good be seen with a good microscope enough to enable a researcher to -- yet the largest was about a recognize some shapes would not hundred times as big as the be necessarily of the same age if smallest. Other such known Prethe shapes happen to match. Their Cambrian remains of colonies of true ages mit differ by # milalgae are not impressive and to lion years, the layman they do not even look The beginning of the Cambrian like fossils. Ttey are just carbon period is marked by the presence smudges in sedimentary rock, all of fossils that can be recognized that is left of the algae that lived as such without much of a mental and died in tht spot. struggle. These fossils can also Because there are so few of be declared to have been oxygen these fossils, dating is nearly imbreathers because their living relapossible. In more recent geological fives, however remote the relationlayers the fossils often are the ship may be, still are. But before Figure #. Map of the earth at the beginning of the Cambrian period as geologists thought it to have been at the beginning of the current century. There was one super-continent, named Gondwanaland, in the south and two continents, a shrunken Asia and an expanded North America, in the north. The map is correct concerning areas of current continents shown to be above water. But the enormous land bridges between South America, Africa and Australia did not exist. we look at these early Cambrian animals (which will be the theme of the next article) we need a look at the earth as a whole as it was Size and shape were the same as now. The day probably was shorter by a numlr of hours than it is now. The atmosphere did not differ much from our current atmosphere except for one factor: the oxygen content was probably about # per cent instead of the current # per cent. How about the distribution of land and water? At the time when Eozoon canadense was still acclaimed the oldest fossil the same book picturing it was also likely to carry a map like our Fig. #. There were three main continents, two of them in the north and one in the south. The two northern continents were North America in the west and Asia in the east. The southern continent was called Gondwanaland. As the map shows, it was supposed to stretch from South America eastward across the Atlantic, comprise most of Africa and extend eastward to the Australian area. We now know that this map was wrong -- but it was the result of careful reasoning based on a fantastic amount of detail work. The existence of Gondwanaland was not derived so much from the sediments, or lack of them. during the Cambrian period but had been extrapolated backward because of later evidence. During the time of the early (emphasis on "early") dinosaurs a great deal of evidence existed that southern Asia, Africa, South America and at least parts of the Australian region had all been connected. The most logical conclusion that could be drawn from the evidence was that all these now separated land areas had once formed a long southern continent -- Gondwanaland. And since the existence of Gondwanaland seemed certain for the Permian and Triassic periods, that continent must have existed in earlier times, too. That is how it got onto the map of the Cambrian period. We now know what went wrong in that reasoning. Geologists, in the course of their work, had found numerous instances of past reversals of land and water. At one time, during the days of the late dinosaurs, Kansas and adjacent areas had been under water. Manunoth tusks found at the bottom of the North Sea -- much to the annoyance of the fishermen whose nets were tom in the process -- proved that the North Sea had been dry land at one time. So it seemed that the sea and the land could change places. Hence, if fossils compelled geologists to conclude that Africa and South America had once been IF connected, they felt free to assume a land connection across the southern Atlantic which later disappeared under the waves. The mistake was the failure to make a distinction between deep ocean and flooded land. That sea that once covered Kansas had been a shallow sea, just as is the North Sea of our time. In both cases you simply dealt with a portion of a continent that was lowlying enough to be covered by a few hundred feet of water. But the ocean between Africa and South America was deep ocean. Since the evidence that there had once been a connection between these two continents could not be disregarded, only one logical conclusion was possible -- the continents themselves had moved. South America and Africa had once been the same continent, until a line of weakness broke open to form a water-filled trench. Then South America moved westward, pushed by the ever widening trench that finally became the Atlantic Ocean, while Africa stayed more Figure #. AAap of the earth at the beginning of the Cambrian period as given by the Continental Drift theory. Ail the present continents still touched each other, though there were bodies of water in the interior of that super continent. The continental block marked by a circle is the later Australia, the one marked by the double circle is the later Antarctia. or less where it had been all along. This is the theory of Continental Drift. It was first proposed half a century ago and it needed all that time to gain the general acceptance it now h. The shape of the continents of today can be explained by assuming Aat they once were huddled together (Fig. #.) to form just one continent that later broke up. At the beginning of the Cambrian period the original continent was still in one piece. And it was to stay that of years to come.  The great Willy Ley, before his recent untimely passing, had arranged with us to publish was to cover the Earths geologic history, the emergence of terrestrial life, its evolution in multiple forms, and what the future of our planet will be -- judging by its past. Because of their intrinisic interest, and as a kind of memorial to Willy Ley's name, if shall continue to present posthumously those portions of the work that he completed and left with A life he did not recognize. A wife who did not know him. A world in which he alone was sane... I when he woke that morning was that he was back in the field hospital south of Inchon with a hole in his shoulder -- where a Chinese .#-caliber slug had gone in -- and a bier one between his ribs where it had come out. And Uncle AI had been there, calling to him to come along -- they were going to the Old House and he had wanted to go, even thou he was stitched and bandaged and confined to bed. Mallory moved his shoulders experimentally, felt a twinge of pain from sore muscles. Probably he had moved in his sleep and tried to weave the resultant ache into a dream that would allow him the luxury of a few more minutes of cozy oblivion. Strange thing, the dream mechanism -- as if half the brain set out to delude the other half. And the haunting desire to see the Old House again still clung like a memory of a long-ago outing. He got out of bed, stretched, noticing other small aches and pains as he did. Old age must be catching up with him, he told himself, not meaning it. Fog hung like a cottony veil across the lawn beyond the curtained window, making ghosts of the poplars at the far side of the garden, obscuring detail, blurring outlines, lending to the familiar a hint of the charm of the unknown. The Bartlett house, looming high and wraithlike beyond the trees, might have been, perched on a cliff at the edge of the world. The street, dwindling into invisibility a half-block away, might lead down to a silent beach edging a tideless sea. It would be pleasant to follow that phantom shoreline, wade in the warm, reed-grown shallows, emerge in some pleasanter, simpler world. Mallory smil at his fancies. It would be time enough to start dreaming of white beaches when the firm of Mallory and Nolan, Engineering Consultants, had weathered its first year, iness. As he turned away from the window something lying beside the hedge lining the Bartletts' drive caught his eye. It was difficult to make out in the misty light but it looked like an old overcoat flung carelessly on the grass, a jarring note in the orderly composition. Probably scmiething left and forgotten by a handyman. Mallory put it out of his mind and ambled into the bathroom. His razor lay on the edge of the basin, clogged with gray soap. Bless the ladies, he thought as he rinsed it under the tap. He rummaged in the medicine cabinet for a new blade, failed to find one. The shaving cream can was empty, its spout crusted with dry, green foam. The toothpaste tube was crumpled and flat. His toothbrush was nowhere in sight. He found it after a brief search on the floor behind the toilet bowl. He used the electric razor Gill had given him for Christmas. He did not like using it. It did not shave close enough and left his face feeling dry and unrefreshed. Eyeing himself in the mirror, he thought he looked a bit gaunt and hollow-cheeked. There were dark circles under his eyes and he was badly in need of a haircut. He wore at least a month's growth, he decided, angling his head to see the sides. He must be working too hard, losing weight, forgetting his bi-weekly trim. He would have to think about taking things easier. He noticed a pair of battered shoes on the floor of the closet. His best pair of Bostonians. The soles were badly worn, the uppers scuffed deep into the leather, the strings broken and knotted. Frowning, Mallory looked through the hanging clothes for his gray suit, found it dangling on a hook at the end of the closet. It was dusty, shabby. The cuffs were greasy black. Both elbows were IF worn through. It looked, he thought, like something a hobo might wear, calling at the back door for a handout. Lori must have borrowed it, he decided, for some sort of student Rag Day or scavenger hunt thing. To a youngster all old folks' clothes -- meaning folks over thirty-five -- probably looked the same. He would have to have words with that young lady. He dropped the coat on the floor with the ruined shoes, selected a tan suit. His favorite tie was missing. He picked another, smoothed the look off his face. Whistling, he went down to breakfast. stirring a pan. Marly and Randy, the tenand eightyear-olds, sat at the kitchen table, spooning up oatmeal. "Looks like I'm last man on deck," Mallory said jovially. Gill smiled abstractedly and went on with her work. The kids did not look up. He poured a cup of coffee and pulled out a chair. There wpre bread crumbs on the seat of the chair and on the table. Sugar was scattered around the bowl. In a clouded glass vase were the dried stems of a bunch of faded wildflowers. He tried the coffee. It was lukewarm, stale-tasting. Gill came across and put a bowl of oatmeal before him. She was still the best-looking girl in town, Mallory thought, but this morning she looked pale, her skin dull. "You're late, Jeff," she said. "I was just going to call you." "I got involved in looking out the window," he said. "Nice fog." Gill sat down across from him. "Fog?" she asked vaguely. Mallory glanced through the window. The air was sparkling clear. "Funny. Must have been just a patch." He sampled the oatmeal. It was barely warm. There was no salt in it, no salt on the table, no butter, no cream. He started to mention it, glanced at Gill, noticed the darkness under her eyes, her abstracted expression. "Gill -- are you feeling all right?" "Very well, thank you," she said quickly and smiled a fleeting smile. Mallory got up and went to the cupboard where the dry cereal was kept. There were half a dozen boxes there, their tops tom open, all but one empty. He took a bowl from the shelf, noticed dust in it, rinsed it at the sink. "Any toast? he inquired. "Toast?" Gill looked mildly puzzled. "You've heard of it -- bread that's been in the toaster." He tried to make it sound jolly but the words hung dead between them. The room was chilly, he noticed. A faint, foul odor was in the air. Or not so faint, he amended, noticing the overflowing garbage pail by the door. Bits of food and soiled paper lay around it. Marly, the ten-year-old, scraped her spoon against her empty bowl. She licked it, front and back, dropped it on the table and stood. Her skirt and sweater did not match. "Hey, did you kids have any milk?" Jeff asked. Marly failed to answer. Randy pushed his chair back and started from the room after his sister. "Why did the kids rush out of here without a word?" Mallory asked. "Is anything wrong?" "They have to go to school," Gill said. She looked troubled. Mallory reached across to put his hand over hers. He was shocked at how cold it felt under his -- and thin. And the nails, always so carefully groomed, were chipped, not even clean. "Gill, what's the matter?" He tried to catch her eye. She looked down into her bowl. She pulled her hand away, took a bite of gruel. "Gill -- I think you've been working too hard," Mallory said. "Been around the house too much. What do you say we get away for a few days? We could go out to the Old House diis weekend, camp out, do a little work on the place. The kids would enjoy it and -- " "What old house?" "Our Old House. What else?" G ill looked at him innocently. "Do we have an old house?' "Never mind, it was just a thought." "You'd better eat," Gill said. "You'll be late." "One of the prerogatives of being boss," Mallory said, smiling, "is that I can be late when I want to." "You mustn't joke about your work, Jeff." He smiled at her. "Why not?" "Jeff, you seem so strange this morning -- " "I was just thinking you seem to be in a curiously playful mood." "In what way?" "Acting as if you never heard of the Old House, teasing me about being a few minutes late to my own office -- " "Jeff, what are you talking about?" "I'm talking about my business. Where I make our living." "Jeff, are you sure you're feeling all right?" "Why shouldn't I be?" Gill's glance went to the clock over the refrigerator. She made as if to rise. "We really have to go now -- " Mallory caught her hand. "Where are you going?" "Let me go," she gasd. "They don't like it if you're late -- " "Gill -- I asked you where you're going." "To the Star Tower, of course -- " "What's the Star Tower?" "You know," she whispered. "It's where we work." "We? Since when do you have a job?" He tried to smile. "Fm the breadwinner around here, remember?" She was shaking her head -- IF her eyes were wide, fearful. Vlallory came to his feet, drew his vvife to him. "Slow down a minute, girl. :t's start at the beginning -- " He broke off as the front door slammed. Through the window he .saw Marly and Randy hurrying lown the walk. "Where are their coats?" he aid. "It's cold out there. And neir schoolbooks -- " He turned jrgently to Gill. "And where's Lori?" "Lori who?" "Our daughter, Lori. You Know." He tried to cover the impatient edge to his voice with a smile. "Our daughter's name is "Of course. And our other daughter's name is Lori. Has she alrey eaten?" G ill gave him a fleeting smile. "I'm sorry, I don't understand you. I have to go. I mustn't be late to the work rooms." "All rit. I'll play along," Mallory said. "Anything else new I ought to know?" you know the quota has been increased -- " "Oh, so the quota has been increased." "So many have not been comng to their benches." "Their benches? What benches are those?" "At the workrooms." "What workrooms?" "Where we work, of course, eff. Please stop -- " "Funny, I ought I had an office in the Miller Building," Mallory said harshly. at the cereal bowl at Mallory's place. "You'd better eat quickly. It's a long time to midday break." "Never mind the midday break. You still haven't said where Lori is." "I don't know any Lori -- " He gripped her arm. "Stop it. Gill! Where is she?" He broke off at a sudden thought. "There hasn't been an accident? Has she been hurt?" "No, there hasn't been any accident. And I don't know anyone named Lori." She tugged against him, trying to reach the door. He picked her up, carried her to the living room, lowered her to the couch. She tried to struggle up. He sat beside her, held her. "There has been an accident, hasn't there?" He tried to hold his voice steady. "You're trying to keep it from me, aren't you?" "I don't know what you mean!" "I'm talking about our oldest daughter, Lori," he said, forcing himself to speak calmly. "Age, nineteen. Born while we were still in school. She's tall, blond, likes to ride and swim and play tennis. Are you telling me you've forgotten her?" shaking her head. "There isn't any such person, Jeff. We have two children, Marla and Randy. That's all." He rose, went into the hall and called. There was no answer. He ran up the stairs three at a time, at the top wheeled to the left, his outstretched hand reaching for the doorknob. He slammed into a solid wall. Where the door to Lori's room should have been was an unbroken stretch of plaster. G ill was standing wide-eyed on the landing. "Why?" he asked. "Why is her room sealed?" His voice was a croak. "Jeff, you're frightening. I don't understand -- " Mallory ran his hands over the wall. It felt solid to his touch. He stepped back and looked along the hall. There were the doors to the other three bedrooms, the bathroom, the attic stairs. But Lori's door was sone. "Where is Lori?" as he came down the steps. "Jeff, you're sick. You're having some kind of attack. Lie down and I'll call Dr. Everet -- " "I've never felt better in my life -- Mallory broke off abruptly. Through the window on the landing he saw the familiar street, clear of fog now, the big old-fashioned houses, steep-gabled, the leafless trees above them. But beyond, where the steeple of the Methodist Church should have been, a tower rose up and up into the morning sky. It was big, his engineer's eye told him -- hundreds of feet in diameter and so tall that its flaring top was lo in the high haze. The material was pale green, glassy, translu cent. An incredible structure had sprung up overnight like a u enchanted mushroom. "Gill -- what is it?" She stared into his face. Her eyes had a glazed, remote look. "The Star Tower, of course."  With an effort, Mallory spoke I calmly. j "Gill, something's wrong. May be it's me. It must be me -- unless I'm imagining that." He stared at the tower. "And if I am, Tm still in trouble." "You've been working too hard," she said. "I knew you were working too hard." "Gill, do you remember a church? The steeple used to stick up right behind the Meyer house -- " "But -- that's where the Tower is." "No church? I imagined that?" "You saw the Tower, Jeft Surely you don't -- " ! "I saw it. I admit it. That's the i one thing that makes me think I I may be the one who's out of his mind. Because the tower is impossible, Gill.' Mallory laughed and was surprised at the weakness  of the laugh. "All right. I'm imagining things. Anything else?" "You seem -- very confused, Jeff." "We don't have a nineteenyear-old daughter?" "No, Jeff." "I don't run my own engineering company?" "I don't understand what that IF means. We work at our jobs at the Tower." "What do you do in this workroom you say you have to hurry off to?" "We perform the tasks set us." "What is it? Some sort of factory?" "I -- I don't know. I suppose so. We -- make things. Work on things. With wires. You work in the loading sheds." "Gill -- is this what it's like to lose your mind? I feel perfectly normal. No headache, no confusion. Just a lot of ideas that seem to be totally false. But how much of it is fise? Everything? No, not everything," he shook his head. "You're my wife. Gill. You know me. And the kids. Randy and Marla. But what about everything else?" he broke off, a vision "The world is round," he said. "Okay so far?" She nodded hesitantly. "We live in the United States. In the state of Nebraska. The town of Beatrice." Gill frowned. "No -- this is the Center, Jeff." "The center of what?" Gill made a vague gesture. "Of -- everything. It's just -- the Center." "What do we do?" "We work, we do our part." "Our part of what?" "Of the work." "Gill," Mallory said. "I may be crazy -- but I didn't imagine Lori. She exists, damn it!" Pulling her behind him, he walked into the library. "Where's the pic-ture of her that we keep on the desk?" Gill did not answer. H e took a blue album from the drawer. It held snapshots of Gill, of himself, of Randy and Marly. But none of Lori, only patches of tom paper where pictures had been removed. "Who tore her pictures out?" Mallory gripped Gill's arms, almost shaking her. "Why?" "Please, Jeff -- you're hurting me -- # A soft click came from the direction of the front door. "Lori?" Mallory stepped past his wife, hurried through the arched entry to the front ipom -- and stopped dead. A man stood there, staring fixedly past Mallory's shoulder. Or -- Mallory amended his first impression -- not a man. Something that looked like a man. Something that mit fool you in a bad light or at a greater distance. But not here, ten feet away, in the full light of morning. The face was the wrong color -- a dusky purplish pink and of the texture of foam rubber. The eyes were dull, empty, without movement. The mouth and nostrils were sealed. The hair was a spongy mass. It was dressed in an dd-fashioned golfing outfit, baggy knickers, Argyle socks, a loose Cardigan of a pinkish gray color. Mallory's thoughts reached this point, recoiled, approached, recoiled. II "You are late, Worker," a rich contralto voice sounded from the region of the simulacrum's rib cage. Behind Mallory, Gill made a whimpering sound. "Gill -- stay back." Mallory took a step sideways and grabbed up the wrouglit-iron poker from beside the fireplace. The stand went over with a dull crash of iron. He hefted the twofoot bar, watching the thing as it pivoted to face him. From the corner of his eye Mallory saw Gill start past him. He put out an arm to stop her but she darted around him and toward the door. At once the monstrosity moved to intercept her. Mallory swung up the poker, brought it down across its shoulder. The impact was as if he had struck padded steel. With a motion too quick to follow, the thing twitched the poker from his hand, dropped it carelessly on the rug. Gill had the door open, was standing there hesitantly, looking back. "Gill, run -- " Mallory launched himself at the creature. Iron hands gripped him, thrust him effortlessly away. "This is incorrect behavior. Worker," the warm, feminine voice said in a tone of kindly correction. Mallory seized a heavy chair, hurled it at the thing, whirled and made a dash for the door through which Gill had disappeared. He had taken two steps when the room exploded into dazzling light that slowly faded into utter darkness. M allory became aware that he was lying on his back on a soft surface, looking up at a flower-patterned ceiling. He turned his head; an elderly man was sitting beside him. He recognized him: Doc Everet -- George Everet. Everet was staring vaguely at the wall. "Where's Gill?" Mallory asked. Everet turned, looked at Mallory's left ear. "She had to go, Jeff. The work can't wait, you know." Mallory sat up. His head ached sickeningly. He looked around the room. The thing that had attacked him was gone. The fire tools were neatly racked beside the fireplace. The furniture was in its normal position. "Where has it gone?" he asked. "What was it, George?" "What?" "The thing -- whatever it was. It knocked me out. Didn't you see it? Didn't Gill tell you?" "You fainted, Jeff. Gill told me of your attack." Mallory strode to the window, twitched aside the curtain. The tower loomed behind the familiar roofs, impossibly tall, undeniably real. "Have I gone crazy?" he asked thickly. "Just a temporary loss of orientation," the doctor said. "I have a tablet for you to take -- " "George -- what's going on?" Mallory came back to stare down at the other man. Everet's thin white hair curled untrimmed about IF jiis ears. A silvery stubble lin jiis cheeks. The collar of his shirt was grimy. His tie was tied in a hard, greasy knot. "Maybe you can tell me -- where's Lori? Gill acted as if she'd never heard of her, George." Everet shook his head. "I know no one of that name." "Don't know her? Hell, George, you delivered her. Nineteen years ago." "You have two children, Randall and Marlene, Jeff. Their ages are eight and ten -- " "Certainly -- and another, named Lori, age nineteen. She was born the year I started with Universal -- the year after Gill and I were married, the year I first met you." "Jeff, you have to reject these fantasies." "Is that so fantastic?" "Worse than that. It's nonsense. Many of the words you're using are gibberish. They don't mean anything." "Which words?" "Never mind that. Put all that out of your mind." "How can I? I want to know what's going on. If I'm crazy, I want to know how crazy." "Not crazy, just talking a little wild. I'm going to give you a pill that will make you sleep again." "No. No pills. Just give me some facts. The Tower -- how long has it been there? Who built it?" "Why, I suppose the Tower has been there since before I can remember. Never thought much about it -- " "A thing like that?" Mallory leaned forward tensely. "Doesn't it strike you that it looks different Trom anything else in the town? It's too high, too big. What is it built of? No materid I know of could take those stresses -- " "Jeff, stop exciting yourself." Everet frowned, offered a spherical purple capsule on his palm. "Take this. It wiU help you." "Why not answer my question?" "Because next you'll be asking me why trees have branches, where the leaves come from and what holds up the sky. I'm not here to help you concretize your delusion. Tallang about these fancies of yours will just stabilize them, make them seem more real to you. That's not good, is it? We want you well, sane, back on the job. Now take this. Or would you rather have the needle?" Jeff accepted the pill, took the glass of water Everet offered. The elderly doctor watched h i m swallow. "Now, lie back and relax. Don't think about these notions of yours. Just be glad you've got a fine home, a fine wife, two fine children and that you have your Work. I'll look in on you this evening. By tomorrow morning you'll be feeling better, much better." Mallory nodded, let his eyes close. He listened to the sounds of Everet closing his bag, tiptoeing across the room, die door opening, closing, the click of the latch. He waited a full minute, then sat up, tossed the pill he had palmed into the fireplace. "Delusions, eh?" he muttered. "We'll check on that." H e found the axe among the garden tools under the basement steps. Back upstairs, he studied the blank wall where the door to Lori's room had been. Was there a faint, irregular line, an almost imperceptible discontinuity in the surface of the plaster? He could not be sure. But there was a way to find out. He raised the axe, swung it at the wall. It struck with a solid thunk that jarred his arms to the sockets. Plaster cracked and fell away, exposing a gray, papery surface. He chopped at it, knocking pieces loose. It was light, tough stuff, like the material of a hornet's nest. A fragment broke loose and fell inward. Dim light shone out the hole. Mallory kneeled, saw the corner of a bed, a rug, a papered wall and a window, the shade drawn tightly over it. "Nothing there, eh?" He attacked the wall again, enlarged the opening, crawled through it. He was in Lori's room. Dust lav thick on the dresser and bedside table. Papers and books were scattered on the desk. He opened the closet door. Lori's clothes hung -- dusty -- on hangers. He touched a pale blue sweater that Gill had civen their dauehter on her last birthday. "Lori," he whispered. "Where are you?" His eyes fell on a thin-spined book lying on a shelf -- a higli school Annual. He picked it up, leafed through to the pages where photographs were ranked in rows. Her picture was there among the others, blond and smiling. He tore it out, folded it, put it into his shirt pocket. He left the room, stepping over the litter of plaster in the hall, automatically careful not to walk ' on it and grind plaster into the carpet. Start at the top, he told himself. Check the whole house. See  what else is phony about this situ- ation... The attic looked as it always had. Long rays of early sun slanted through the dusty window on worn carpet, ancient trunks, rickety cardboard cartons filled w i t h u n able-to-be-parted-with mementoes of past lives; on broken toys, the old brass standing lamps and faded velour furniture. An old frontier Colt .# hung on a peg. He lifted it down. There were corroded cartridges in the belt. No way of knowing if they would fire. The gun had not been used in twenty years. He loaded it, buckled it on. Room by room he checked the rest of the house. Everything looked normal, though dusty. The beds were untidily made. Pantry shelves were crowded with ranked boxes of soap flakes, detergent, cases of dog food, paper napkins -- Gill hated them -- dietetic fruits, canned hominy and sweet potatoes. On the back porch were stacked more cartons. He found a diminished bottle IF of scotch, poured himself four ounces, neat. The liquor seemed to clear his head a bit. But his body still felt numbed. Like a thumb in the instant after the hammer hits it and before the real pain arrives. On the curled calendar on the wall, the days of November had been x-ed out through the fifteenth. H e went into the living room, looked out through the glass curtains. The orderly street was silent. A few cars were visible, parked in driveways or at the curb. They looked a little dusty, as if they had been sitting for some time. Dead leaves lay drifted across the sidewalks and the street in a pattern undisturbed by traffic. He went to the telephone in the hall, lifted the receiver, listened to the steady hum of the dial tone. He dialed O, waited through twentyfive rings before he hung up. He switched on the console TV. Static crackled from the speaker after half a minute. He tuned. A dancing grid of light blanked all channels. He took a coat frn the front closet, went to the back door and looked out at the garden. Morning sunshine lay across dormant flower beds, leess shrubs, dry grass. A bird twittered in the hedge. He left the bouse, walked quickly back to the garage. The door was locked. His two-yearold Buick w visiHe through the window. One front tire seemed almost flat. Keeping to the shrub line, he crossed to the rear of the Bartlett garden. The house stood high and silent in the morning light. He found a broken window on the ground floor. A light breeze blew a scrap ofpaper across the dry grass. Green shoots poked up through the black earth beside the walk. The daffodils would be blossoming in a few more weeks. Mallory strode toward the back door, almost expecting to see Meg Bartlett appear there, plump and aproned, to wave and invite him in for coffee. A wrongness in something he had seen nagged at him. He stopped and looked back. Daffodils. Daffodils did not appear until March -- late February at the earliest. This was November. Or had time jumped ahead from autumn to spring overnight? Three months lost,... What had happened during those ninety days? He did not know. He could not remember. He walked along the drive, opened an unlatched screen and rapped on the door. He heard no response and started around to the front of the house. A heap of old clothes lay in the drive. He moved closer, saw Aat what remained of a man was in the clothes, talonlike hands clawing at the earth. Skull-face, leather covered, teeth bared in a yellow grin. He recognized the curly gray hair -- Fr Bartlett, his neighbor of ten years. Mallory skirted the mummy, went on to the front of the house. He started off along the sidewalk in the sparse she of the barren trees. Tall weeds grew across once-immaculate lawns. Formerly shiny cars sat on soft tires, their windows opaque with dust. Halfway down the block the bay windows of a brick house gaped black and gutted. Clabbered milk bottles stood on porches. Forlorn yellowed envelopes poked from mail boxes. A dead dog lay in the gutter, partly covered with leaves, snarling a dessicated snarl. Above the rooftops the faerie tower loomed against the blue sky. The school was in the next block. Mallory crossed the silent playground where papers blew across hard-baked earth. He entered the building. The doors were unlocked -- his footsteps were an intrusion on utter silence. He poked along, looking at the placards marking the doors. He recognized the name of Randy's teacher. The door stood ajar. Papers were scattered over the floor. A chalk mural cm the blackboard was spotty and streaked. A dead geranium stood stiffly in a painted clay pot Paper turkeys and pilgrims' heads which had bn pasted to the windows had cxwne loose and lay on the flcmr among other clutter. On the desk that Mallory remembered as Randy's lay a battered geography hook. The children were not here -- had not been here for some time. town streets deserted under the cold mid-moming sun. Two empty cars, their front wheels interlocked in a tangle of metal, blocked the intersection. A broken window featured the liquor store in the next block. A few bottles lay scattered in the display window among glass shards -- otherwise the stock seemed undisturbed. Mallory started at a sharp click -- then saw that the traffic lights were still working. The street ended three blocks ahead in a blank wall of dull black material. Mallory walked on slowly. The wall was five feet high, running across pavement and lawns, curving away to both sides, shearing through the houses lying in its path. There was no ruft)le, no disorder -- but he could see exposed wallpaper, pictures hanging above bs in rooms slic open like dolls' houses. The tower stood two hundred yards beyond the wall, its outlines vague as a rainbow. The twenty-acre circle of flat ground enclosed by the wall was as bare and featureless as a concrete slab. There were no visible openings in the tower. A faraway siren whooped. Mallory retreated to the nearest house, flattened himself against the wall in the shelter of a cluster of cedars. A section of the wall swung back, gatelike. The head of a loose column of people emerged from the enclosure. There were men, women, children. They walked briskly, not talking, streaming out through the gates and off ong the street. Many were incongruously clothed. A middle-aged woman with unkempt hair walked barefoot in a tom and dirt-streaked formal evening gown. Nearby, a roundshouldered man stumped along, hugging himself in a stained bathrobe. One man limped on shoes that had worn completely through, so that the loose uppers flapped about his ankles. All the people looked rumpled, bedraggled, threadbare, uniformly thin-faced, lean, some to the point of emaciation. They looked, Mallory thought, like concentration-camp victims marching toward the gas them -- nor were his children. T he main body passed, followed by a few stragglers. A lone man brought up the rear, trailing fifty feet behind the others. He approached Mallory's hiding place. Mallory went forward to intercept him. The man did not look up or halt. Mallory fell into step bide him. "Just a minute, if you don't mind, Mr. Zwicker," he said. "I'd like to talk to you." "Mallory, isn' it?" The man shot him a keen look. He was an ordinary-looking fellow of middle age, a builder, a customer of Mallory's firm. He looked thinner than Mallory remembered. "Have to hurry along," Zwicker said, "No time to waste." "Listen," Mallory said, "have you seen my family? You remember my wife. Gill -- " "I've done my quota," Zwicker said. "And now I'm going home as always to nourish myself and rest -- " Mallory caught his arm, spun him around. "Is she in there?" He nodded toward the tower that loomed over them like a cliff. Zwicker tried to pry Mallory's fingers from his arm. "You weren't on the docks today," he said accusingly. "I remember -- the Watcher found your place empty. That's bad, Mallory. How can we accomplish the Work if each doesn't do his share -- " "Have you seen her? Answer me, danm you." "No. No, I haven't. My work is on the docks. I see no women, not even -- " Zwicker paused frowning. "I must go home," he said flafly and tried again to pull away. "What goes on inside there?" Mallory demanded. "In the Star Tower?" Zwicker tugged, prying at Mallory's fingers. "We carry on the Work, of course." "What work?" Zwicker looked sharply at him. "You're acting like a crazy man, accosting me in the street, asking wild questions -- " "How long has it been there -- the Tower?" Zwicker looked at him blankly. "Why -- forever, I suppose" he said. "What a curious question." "Zwicker, this is all wrong. I want to know what's happened." "Nothing whatever," Swicker yelped, "llie sun is shining, night follows day, we do our Work -- IF all but you. Why are you questioning me? Why are you trying to make trouble?" The man's eyes slidpast Mallory. Their expression changed, became vague. Mallory turned. A flat cart had rolled through the gate on silent doughnut wheels. On it squatted two creatures like the one that had invaded his living room. ttX#ell, I must be on my VV way," Zwicker said jauntily. "Nice seeing you, Mallory -- " "Zwicker, for God's sake, what are those things?" Zwicker shot him a frown. "Mallory, you make me uncomfortable -- " The cart was rolling closer. Mallory thrust Zwicker toward a gap between the bumpers of parked cars. "Through there -- run," he snapped. Zwicker planted his feet, resisting. "Mallory, let me go -- " The cart was approaching swiftly, making a soft, humming sound. It was too late now to run for it. "Quick -- into the car." Mallory yanked a door open, thrust Zwicker in, slid under the wheel. "Keep down," he whispered as Zwicker lunged for the door handle. Zwicker yelled. Mallory swiftly clapped a hand over his mouth. Zwicker kicked out frantically. Mallory hit him on the side of the jaw. Zwicker went limp. Mallory quickly locked the doors, tried the starter. He heard a heavy click, nothing more. The hum of the cart had grown louder. Now it descended the decibel scale and ceased. Mallory watched the two not-men step down from the cart, moving efficiently but somehow wrongly, with a subtle distortion of normal human rhythm and balance. They came to the car, stood staring in at him through the glass. One wore a tuxedo with a pink carnation in the lapel. The other was in a blue coverall iith the name Herb stitched over the pocket. The latter reached for the door handle -- the car shook as it tugged. The other sprang lightly to the hood, reached back out of Mallory's line of vision. There was a sharp ripping sound and something sha sliced down through top and headliner, cut a yard-long incision. A parallel cut appeared an instant later. Mallory shook Zwicker, who pulled away mumbling. Mallory opened the door, thrust it wide, dived, struck shoulder first, rolled, came to his feet and sprinted for a gap in the hedge. "Halt," a resonant voice boomed after him. He cut across a stretch of leafstrewn lawn, followed the curve of a graveled drive leading toward a colonnaded, white house. He heard the shrill whine of the flatcar as it maneuvered swiftly, coming in along the drive. There was another sound -- a thinner, more piercing tone. Pain lashed at Mallory. He stumbled headlong toward the trees that lined the way, bounced off the trunk of an ancient elm, went down hard. On his knees he crawled into the shelter of a line of low-spreading junipers. He heard the flatcar slow to a stop. Next came sharp clicks and rasping sounds, then voices. "I don't know," Zwicker's thin tenor was saying. "I only want to go to my home, take nourishment and rest -- " "It is necessary for the highest good that you give this information," a warm, fatherly voice cut in. "Why did the other Worker accost you?" "I don't know. I only want -- " "It will be necessary to give pain until you remember," the kindly voice said. Zwicker's voice broke into a scream that ended in a whimper, "The runaway worker is damaged," another voice said, this one a bright young executive type. "There are stains of ichor on the husk of the tree." "He will be found," a society matron gushed. Mallory heard sounds of multiple limbs moving across gravel, crunching dry leaves. He rose to his feet and, keeping to the shelter of trees, retreated past the comer of the house. Then he ran. M allory covered three blocks, cutting across dead lawns, pushing tlu-ough brittle hedges without seeing any signs of life, human or alien. He dro ped to the ground to recover his breath. In the silence he heard the whine of a flatcar. It came closer, stopped nearby. Soft, clattering sounds advancing along the driveway reached him. Mallory unholstered the heavy gun, cocked it, leveled it along the drive. An alien appeared, limbs flickering in mincing steps. Mallory took aim at the center of the body, pulled the stiff trigger. At the solid clack the alien halted, pivoted swiftly, came toward him. He pulled the trigger again, double-action -- The boom almost kicked the gun from his hand. The alien was on its back, limbs scything air. Mallory came to his feet as a second creature appeared at the foot of the drive. "Worker, halt!" a boyish vcrice called in a tone of warm congratulation. Mallory fired and, without waiting to see the effect, ran for the alley behind the house. Less than a block later he knew he had made a mistake. His wind was gone. His legs ached. His head was swinuning. The three lost months had robbed him of his conditioning. A garage -- once a stable -- fronted on an alley ahead, its door secured by a massive, rusty padlock. Malloi staggered to a halt, steadied himself, fired twice into the lock: The noise of the gun racketed deafeningly between the hedge-rows. He twisted the shattered mechanism from the heavy hasp, hurled the door wide. A late-model convertible sat in IF the gloom. Two bright-edged holes marred the smooth curve of the deck lid where his shots had penetrated. He pulled the door open, slid into the seat, twisted the key. After an instant's hesitation, the starter ground over sluggishly. He pumped the gas pedal. Abruptly the engine caught, barked, roared to life. Mallory slammed the car into reverse, backed out, cutting hard. He gunned forward to the street, swung left, caught a glimpse of the flatcar in the middle of the street, one alien squatting on it, another moving toward it. He floored the gas pedal, hit sixty into the next block. A strong odor of gasoline blew past his face. The engine bucked, surged, sputtered, stopped. As the car coasted to a halt a cart bearing three aliens rolled into view around the comer a block and a half ahead. Mallory vaulted over the side, crawled backward, keeping low. He gained the shelter of a hedge. The cart rolled to a halt beside the car. Two aliens scrambled down, approached the stalled vehicle. When they were beside it, Mallory took out his cigarette lighter, fired it, tossed it toward the dark puddle forming under the bullet-punctured gas tank. An explosive whump followed and fire boomed up to envelop the car in roaring heat. An alien ran across to the left, burning from heels to crown, leaving fiery footprints across the dead grass. It disappeared between the houses. Mallory jumped up, ran toward the big frame house. He heard a harsh buzz and the lawn ahead and to his left exploded into roiling dust. He veer onto the gravel drive. As he approached the comer of the house it burst in a whine of flying splinters. A spike caught him, sent him spinning. He was only partly conscious of struggling to his feet, stumbling toward the broached wall. He pulled himself up and through the opening into the gloom of a curtained living room. The bast had brought down plaster, filled the air with swirling dust. Mallory made his way past a toppled purple divan, stepped over a framed picture fallen from the wall, was in a dark hallway. Stairs led upward. He mounted them one at a time as if he were carrying a heavy burden. Behind him he heard soft clacking and scraping -- one of the aliens was entering the house through the same opening he had used. He reached for the gun, felt only the empty holster. He knew a fiery pain in his left arm, just below the shoulder. In the upper hall he halted, breathing hard. A high humming filled his head. He could hear the alien moving about below. There was a closet door beside him. With a half-formed thought of hiding, he opened it. It was crowded with cardboard cartons, garments, loose articles -- tennis rackets, a pair of water skis, scuba tanks, a spear gun. Mallory eased the lightweight weapon from its place. Two steel tube darts were clipped in a retainer below the guide channel. He held the gun between his knees, dropped the dart into the slot. Then, bracing the butt of the stock against his thigh, he cranked back the spring-loaded cocking lever. It caught with a sharp snick and at once the sounds from below ceased. They resumed -- a rhythmic rasp, click -- rasp, click. Mallory braced himself against the wall, the spear gun leveled at the head of the stairs, ten feet away. The head of the creature appeared, then the upper body, dressed in a flowered Aloha shirt. It saw him, paused at the head of the stairs. He aimed at the middle shirt button and pulled the trigger. There was a sharp thwack of the mechanism, the stiff jolt of the recoil. Six inches of bright steel stood quivering against the bright patterned chest. Mallory realized quite suddenly that the shirt was not a garment -- it was a part of the not-man's body, molded with it. For a full five seconds neither Mallory nor the alien moved. Then the creatured stirred, leaned sideways, took quick, tiny steps as if to catch its balance. Its legs folded bonelessly. With a jarring series of impacts it tumbled backward down the stairs. T he electric clock on the wall hummed loudly. Somewhere in the house a board creaked. Mallory felt a hot trickle across his left hand. His sleeve was wet, heavy as a plaster cast. Blackness welled inside him. His head felt huge and hot. His arm burned with a dull fire. He skirted the dead thing at the foot of the steps, went on into the living room, peered out past the edge of the drawn curtains at the empty road. No people were in sight. He saw no aliens, no movement except the restless stir of the unpruned shrubbery below the window. It took him an hour to search the house. He found another corpse in an upstairs bedroom, a woman with gray hair. He found a drawer that held a .# automatic pistol. He took it and a box of hollow-point shells. The medicine cabinet in the bathroom yielded iodine, aspirin, a roll of gauze. Back in the kitchen, he drew the blinds, lit the gas range for heat and light. He got a pan of warm water, remov the bandages from his arm, carefully washed the wounds. Splinters were bedded deep in his flesh. He withdrew one, starting fresh bleeding. He used a heavy linen napkin from the sideboard to bind the arm, then ripped a tablecloth to form a sling. He checked the refrigerator. It was still running but the butter and cheese and vegetables were mounds of dessicat corruption. A small steak in the freezer unit had remained edible. He found a skillet, put it on the gas, opened cans of peas and corn. He ate sitting at the table, forcing himself not to think of Gill, of what might have happened to her, the NO IF children. Were they at home now? They had survived for three months. They'd be all right for a little longer. They had to be all right. Going back now would not help them. He had to get clear of Beatrice, find help, come back with force behind him. A thing like this could not be a secret. Alien invasion had been talked about for a century but had never really been considered a possibility. And now it was here. Why weren't the Army and the Air Force hitting back? Good reasons probably existed but without information he could not hope to deduce them. The facts he had were meager. He had been a Worker, like everyone ' else, that was clr enough from his clothes, the calluses on his hands and from what Gill and Zwicker had said. But something had brought him out of the trancelike state that gripped the others. What? How was he different? He tried to remember the last days. Early November certainly was clear enough. The tenth -- he remembered that. There had been the quarterly payment on the plant mortgage. He remembered signing the check. All right, that narrowed it down. Then what? There had been the conference with the chain-store clients. That had been on a Monday. Mallory found a wall calendar. Monday had fallen on the seventeenth and the twenty-fourth. Which had it been? There had been something -- a trip, a visit to the parent company's home office, up north. He had planned to drive, because -- of what? The reason had had something to do with the Old House -- he had meant to take the opportunity to stop by, check on things. Abruptly he was thinking of Lori. He remembered that he had invited her to go along on the trip. But she had had other plans -- a visit to a friend who lived outside the city. Hodges. Sally Hodges. The Hodges house was about twelve miles out on the state road. Lori had been there when the aliens came. That was why she was not at home, had not been caught with the others. She was safe. Safe. And tomorrow he would find her. The stairs were too steep for him to climb again. Mallory settled himself in a chair in the living room, covered himself with a throw rug, and slept. D uring the next day flatcars twice passed close to the house. Mallory watched them from an upstairs window. Their occupants showed no interest in the house. He slept, ate. By nightfall he felt well enough to travel. He donned a fleece-lined coat he had found in the hall closet, filled the pockets with canned goods and dried fruit, bottled soda water. He left via the back door, crossed the untended garden. He was dizzy and lightheaded but his legs felt as if they would support him for a while. Ill A hundred yards from his starting point, a bumed-out tank rested on its side in the ditch. So the Army had fought -- and lost. He plodded on, head down against the chill wind, headed north into the dark countryside. Ill M allory remembered the Hodges house as a pleasant old brick structure, steep-roofed, gingerbread trimmed, built among century-old elms at the crest of a low hill half a mile off the highway. It looked gaunt and forbidding in the pale dawnlight when he crawled over the fence and crossed the pasture. He saw lights in two of the windows. He approached the house openly via the driveway. No one moved behind the curtains. No eager farm dogs leaped forth to bark a greeting. Three pick-up trucks were parked on the rutted grass before the wide porch. A heavy-laden convertible stood behind them. The lights inside went out as Mallory reached the steps. He halted. Air sighed through tree branches overhead. A stick cracked somewhere in the darkness off the left side of the house. "Hello -- anybody there?" Mallory called. No one answered. He thought he heard a faint sound that might have been the hammer of a gun coming back to full cock. "I'm a refugee from the city," he said. "I need help." The bushes shook. A big, broad, rather heavy-looking man stepped into view, holding a shotgun ready. "Get down on your knees and put your hands on the ground," he ordered brusquely. "I'm unarmed," Mallory said. "Better move fast. I'd as soon blow your guts out as look at ye." Mallory stared at the loosemouthed, unshaven face, the bristly black hair tufted under the rim of a new-looking yachting cap with an elaborate gold badge. "Don't be a fool," he said. "You're a spy." The man fingered the gun, 'coming forward slowly. "A damned, sneaking spy." "Lxnny, you damn fool -- Can't you see he's hurt?" A woman, heavy-hipped, bundlesome in a mackinaw, had come up behind the man. "He'll hurt some more before I'm done with him -- " "Sure, shoot off that twelvegauge and let everybody inside five miles know we're here." "I'll just stomp him." Lonny advanced, his teeth showing white in the pearly light. "Has it occured to you that we need every man we can find?" a quiet, elderly voice said from the background. Lonny thumbed the safety off, squinted down the barrel at Mallory's face. "Where's Frank Hodges?" Mallory asked. Lonny lowered the gun, grinning. "I forgot," he said. "I aimed to stomp ye." IF A girl appeared behind the big man. She was young, pretty, with a pale, big-ey face, dark hair tied under a scarf. "It's Mr. Mallory," she gasped. She came forward. "Mr. Mallory  how -- what -- " Lonny's big hand caught her, pushed her roughly away. "Lonny, I told you to keep your hands off her," she snapped. "And you can forget about busting this fellow." She tilted her head toward Mallory. "Sally knows him, that's plain. And like the Perfessor said, we can use an extra hand here." "He could still be a spy," Lonny snorted. But he stood by passively as the big woman and the girl led Mallory into the house. A fire glowed in the fireplace, a kerosene lamp on the table. The girl brought a tray with hot soup and coffee to Mallory as he sat at the kitchen table. "Lori was here when it started," she said. "Then men came here -- soldiers. They shot father. Lori and I got away into the woods. We were separated. I haven't seen her since." "How long ago?" "We were together for a week. So it's been about three months. She was all right when I saw her last. The soldiers were gone when I came back. The house was empty. I don't know where Mother is." "Sally -- what are the -- the diings in the city? Where do they come from?" Sally looked puzzled. "I don't know what you mean." The Professor came into the room. He was a gray-haired, worried-looking man wrapped in a muffler. The tip of his nose was red with cold. "You spoke of 'things' in town, sir," he said. "You refer to the enemy troops, I assume?" Mallory described the simulacra. Sally and the old man listened silently. "They have a kind of hypnotic control over the people who work for them," Mallory finished. "They walk and talk and feed themselves -- but that's about all." "You say you worked for the, ah, creatures for three months?" "I must have. I have no memory of it." "Why is it you weren't affected by this hypnosis you speak of?" "I assume I was affected -- for a while. Then I came out of it." "Why?" "I don't know." The Professor nodded. "You've had a difficult time of it. You need rest and care -- " "You don't believe me." "I have no doubt you're quite sincere, sir, but it's apparent you've suffered hallucinations. It's not surprising, considering what you've been through, alone with your dead in the ruins of a deserted city -- " "It's not deserted and it's not in ruins. It's been taken over. My facts are easy enough to check. But where are the Army and the police? Why isn't anyone doing anything?" "There's been a war," the elderly man said coolly. "A short war -- one the United States failed to win. The country has been invaded. We're under occupation by Soviet troops." T he elderly man, whose name was Jarvis and who was a general practitioner from the nearby town of Minneapolis, Nebraska, pulled up a chair and tamped tobacco into a clay pipe. "I can't help wondering what you did in the city these last months, Mr. Mallory. How did you survive?" "I've already told you, Dr. Jarvis," Mallory said. "Your story still sounds reasonable to you in the light of what I've said?" "I didn't say it sounded reasonable. Just that it's true." "Mr. Mallory -- you've elaborated a fantasy to spare yourself the shame of defeat by the Communists -- to give yourself hope that your wife and children are merely captives, rather than dead." "I know what I saw." "Have you any proof?" "Why would I concoct such a story?" "We've all been through a terrible experience," Jarvis said softly. "Some of us survived in one way, some in another. Some by physical flight, some by a fugue of another sort." "We're only twelve miles from Beatrice. Haven't any of you ventured near enough to see that the city's intact?" "There's an epidemic there, Mr. Mallory." "What about the Tower? You should be able to see it from here." "Tower?" "It's half a mile high, luminous green." Jarvis raised his wispy eyebrows. "You mean the searchlight?" "I mean the tower. They've cleared away the houses in a quarter-mile radious around it. It's their headquarters. That's where is." "Mr. Mallory, the Russians have et up a big beacon light in the city," Sally said diffidently. "You can see it shining at night." "The light is invisible in the daylight, of course," Jarvis said. "You've got an answer for everything." "Tell me, sir -- since your awakening, as you put it, have you yourself had any doubts as to the reality of what you saw?" "Of course I had doubts. Who wouldn't? The aliens aren't easy to believe in even when you've seen one. But after they've shot at you -- they're hard to ignore." "You had no gunshot wound, Mr. Mallory. Only lacerations, apparently caused by a piece of wood. There were splinters in the wounds. I suspect you had a fall, probably in a damaged house. Looking back, can you see any small discrepancies, any objects IF or creatures that changed their aspect from time to time? Anything miraculous, logically impossible?" ,  "The door to Lori's room," Mallory said reluctantly. "It was sealed over. I had to cut my way in with an axe." "I submit that you sealed away your memory of your lost daughter, Mr. Mallory. But behind a mental barrier, not one of lath and plaster." "I tell you I chopped my way through it. It was solid -- but not lath and plaster. It was like layers of gray tissue paper." "I'm sure all these symbolisms would be significant to a trained psychiatrists," Jarvis said. "I'm no more than an amateur dabbler in the subject -- but I've done a bit of reading. I feel sure that if you returned to your house -- assuming you weren't haunting a ruin -- you'd find a perfectly normal door shattered to splinters by your axe. In fact -- " Jarvis' tone grew minutely animated. "That may be precisely how you acquired the wounds, forcing your way in -- " "Next you'll be telling me Lori doesn't exist. That's what Gill said. But Sally knows her. Explain that away." "I'm sure your fantasy is built on some basis of facts. I'm merely trying to help you strip away the facade of illusion -- " "Maybe you shouldn't, Dr. Jarvis," Sally said. "Maybe he's better off believing -- something." Jarvis looked skeptical. "Believing in alien monsters? I doubt that concept will prove to be more comforting in the long run than the reality that the Russians launched a surprise attack and won the war." "They haven't really won," Sally said. "They must be as badly off as we are. I haven't seen a Russian soldier in months. And they haven't bothered us here. Not since the first day." "We're too close to the plague city. And in any event -- what do we have that they might want? They have the cities to loot. But they'll get around to us in time, I daresay." "Have you actually seen these Russians?" Mallory asked. "Are you sure you're not making them up?" "Of course I've seen them. Paratroopers dropping out of the sky. There was heavy fighting southof Minneapolis -- that was why I ran away." "I saw them, too, as close as you are," Sally . said. "I'll never forget them, those baggy uniforms and the captain with his red shoulder boards -- and their strange smell, the language they spoke -- " "Don't reopen the wound." Jarvis patted her shoulder. "You promised not to think of all that, eh?" "Why here?" Mallory asked. "What military objective is there in Nebraska?" "Possibly some secret base, a missile site -- who knows?" "What does the radio say about all this? Television? Isn't there any news?" I # "No news. No television. The radio comes alive now and then, mostly in Russian. I'm afraid I don't understand the language." The back door banged open. Lonny, coming in from outside with an armload of firewood, stared at Malloiy. He thrust the door shut with his foot and dumped the wood on the floor. "Carry that into the fireplace," he ordered. "Then go out there and cut more." "Not with that arm, Lonny," Jarvis spoke up. The heavy woman, Mae, appeared at that point to second him. Lonny went away, muttering. "I suggest you mend as quickly as possible," the medical man advis Mallory. "Our Lonny is a hypochondriac, he tends to tolerate me for that reason. But he's also one of the laziest men alive. He even tried to force Sally to chop the wood for him." "Lonny ain't so bad, when you know how to handle him," Mae said, sitting down heavily across from Mallory and tucking back a lock of graying hair. "He ain't right brit and he's yeller -- so he's gotta be bullied. But he ain't no more'n a big overgrowed kid in some ways." A fter eating, Mallory and Sally went out into the yard. The bam door hung in pieces from its hinges, shattered by some winter storm. No animus were in sight. The place had a forlorn, decayed air. A season of neglect had done more to destroy the image of peace and order than three-quarters of a century of use. A huge oak in front of the house had had all its lower limbs lopped off ' -- one of the sources of Lonny's firewood. Mallory in vestigated the three pick-up trucks. All were new. They were loaded with merchandise -- a red plush divan, heaps of cheap new clothing, boxed shoes, kitchen appliances., hand tools, television sets -- Mallory counted three in one truck, four in another. Everything was rain-spotted and ruststained. The thin veneer on the TV cabinets was peeling from weeks of exposure to the elements. The convertible's interior, though obviously new, was musty and mouldy, soaked with rain, lden leaves were packed in the front seat and over the fur coats and fishing rods and guns in the rear. "There were two other men here with Loimy and Mae when they first came," Sally told Mallory. "They'd been looting all along the way here, loading up and then throwing things away to make room for more. They made trips every day for a week or so after they got here. The house is full of things. After a while they got tired of it." "What happened to the other two men?" "There was a fight. Lonny beat them up. I haven't seen them since." "When did Jarvis arrive?" "About a month ago. Lonny almost shot him but he called out that he was a doctor. That saved him." IF "Why did you stay after they came?" "Where else was there to go?" "What about those towns where Lonny d his friends gathered in their prizes? Aren't there any people there?" "No. I went into two towns while I was on my own -- after I r away. I saw some dead bodies, not many. Everything was intact, just deserted." Mallory turned as a door banged. Heavy footsteps clumped on the porch. Lonny stood there, rubbing his mouth with the back of his hand. He scratched his stomach, then slouched down the steps and toward Mallory and the girl. "I been thinking," he said. "Get on out back the house and cut up that kindling." "He's not well enough, Lonny," Sally said quickly. "Dr. Jarvis said -- " "What do I care what that dried-up old man said? I told ye to git, dude -- now git." The big man started toward Mallory. "Lonny, stop." Sally jumped in front of him. Lonny seized her as if to throw her down, then hesitated, obviously struck by a new thout. He pulled her close, his loose mouth searching for hers. There was a broken axe-handle lying near the trimmed twigs. Mallory caught it up, stepped up behind Lonny, raised the heavy billet and brought it down across the man's head with a sound like a dropped pumpkin. Lonny tottered two steps, went to his knees. Mallory walked around him, took careful aim and hit him again at the base of the neck. Lonny went down hard on his face. Mallory threw the club aside. "I've had all the Lonny I can take," he said. him, her body trembling. Mallory held her, made soothing sounds. "But what will happen when he comes to? Your arm -- " "I'm leaving," he said. "Where will you go?" "I don't know. Lincoln or Omaha. Somewhere there has to be some kind of organization, some troops holed up -- something." "Jeff -- are you sure about what happened back there in town?" "You believe Jarvis? You think I'm cra?" "It isn't a question of being crazy, Jeff. Just that under stress people sometimes see things that aren't there. You know it can happen. It's one of the mind's defenses. It's no disgrace -- " "When do I start believing? Now? Did I really give Lonny a concussion? Did Jarvis tell me the Russians have taken over the country? Are you real? Or am I imaeining this, too?" "I'm real, Jeff. Don't ever doubt that." He looked down into her face. She pressed against him, warm and ive. He let her go, stepped back. "My God, Sally, you're my daughter's friend. I'm old enough to be -- " His voice trailed off, unequal to the cliche. "I'm nineteen, Jeff. I'm a woman. Certainly Lori's my friend but that doesn't -- doesn't -- " It was her turn to falter. "Sally, you're a very lovely girl -- woman, if you prefer. I'm twice your age. Don't I find you desirable? Sure I do. That's the the trouble." "Things have changed, Jeff. Jeff. Three months ago you were just a nice middle-aged man, young-looking but surely worlds away from me. Now -- it's different. Maybe it's instinct. I don't want one of those thin-legged mop-haired boys. I want a man. Someone who'U take care of me Someone like you." "Sally, all this will end some day and everything will be back to normal -- " "Do you really believe that, Jeff?" "What would you have me do, Sally? Pretend it was all a dream and settle down here with Lonny and Mae and start enjoying a lot of leisure time?" "Jeff." Sally took his hands. "If it's the way you say it is -- what can you do alone?" "I don't know. I have to try." Mallory looked at the pick-up trucks, walked over the the nearest, a pale blue Dodge. He circled it, looking at the tires. Sally came up to him, took his arm. "I'm going with you," she said. "Don't be silly. You belong here." "With Lonny and Mae?" "Dr. Jarvis is here," Mallory said. "We'd better dump this stuff out of the back," Sally said and swung up on the side of the truck. Mallory hesitated for a mo. ment. Then he clambered up over the tailgate and awkwardly, one handedly, began tumbling television sets over the side. They left a half-hour later with the truck. Mae and Jarvis watched from the porch as they drove away. Nobody waved. IV T hey drove until dark, cruising at thirty miles an hour along empty roads. Three times they pass military Vehicles stalled in the road. Two were Russian. One was American. There were no bodies around them. They passed through the town of Hickman, desolate and deserted in the twilight. A few miles beyond, they pulled off the road into a stand of hickory trees. Sally helped Mallory inflate air mattresses, rig a tarpaulin over the truck. "It's too bad we don't have a double sleeping bag," Sally said. "I want to sleep close to you. I want to know you're here." "I'U be here, Sally," MaUory said. "Jeff, tell me about yourself. I want to know all about you." "Where should I begin? With my exciting childhood in the orphanage?" "Oh, Jeff, were you really -- " IF "It wasn't exactly an orphanage. More of a paying home for some lucky lads who didn't hapto have families. It wasn't bad. We were well fed and clothed and the school was good. But it was all a bit impersonal." "Don't you have any family at all?" Mallory laughed briefly. "No. Not unless you want to count Uncle Al." "Tell mo about him." "He used to come to see me. He was a big man with a big mustache and strange, colorful clothes. He smoked cigars with a wonderful smell. He'd tell me stories -- all about a marvelous Old House that he was going to some lucky lads who didn't hapexcited about it. And then I'd wake up." "Oh? You mean -- " "Uncle Al was just a dream." "Jeff -- " She clung tightly to him. "I'm no dream. I'm real -- and I'm here." "Yes," Mallory said. "And I'm glad you are, Sally. Very glad -- " T he next day they pushed north through Johnson and Otoe Counties, passing deserted farms, deserted towns. South of Lincoln they found the road blocked by a jumble of wrecked vehicles -- a pile-up in the dark, Mallory guess. He saw some dirt mounds in the field beside the road -- graves, hastily dug and untended. They back-tracked, detoured east. Just before noon, under a wet, gray sky, they came to the outskirts of the village of Alvo, drove along the potholed main street, pulled into a formerly prosperous Shell station, now overgrown with weeds springing up through cracks in the pavement. Cars were still parked on the cracked apron. Mallory cut a sixfoot length from a plastic hose to siphon fuel from the tank of a heavy, dusty Cadillac, took a can of oil from a stack by the pumps. He wiped the truck's windshield, examined the tires, then broke open the door to the women's toilet for Sally. He saw a display of firearms in a sporting gocxls store across the street. The door was locked but Mallory broke it open with a kick. He helped himself to a .# caliber Browning automatic pistol in a black leather shoulder holster. He buckled an ammunition belt around his waist, opened a box of fat brass cartridges and filled the loops, dumped the rest of the box into his pocket. As an afterthought he picked up a Mauser .#, filled the magazine and a spare, slipped it into his watch pocket. He exchanged his soiled coat for a lightweight, fleecelined, genuine leather windbreaker, took a pair of pigskin driving gloves, added a sheath knife and a small flashlight. A display of shoes caught his eye. He spent another five minutes selecting a pair of tough Cordovan climbing boots and heavy wool socks. "You look ready for anything now," Sally said admiringly. "And we'll probably meet it" They drove through the town, 'e roar of the engine shattered litter stillness. They passed the last scattering of hamburger joints and cut-rate service stations, slowed for a railroad underpass followed by a sharp turn. As Mallory swung the comer, a man stepped into the road fifty yards ahead. He wore a baggy gray tunic and khaki pants, a flat cap with red band. The submachine gun in his hands was aimed squarely at the windshield of the tmck. Mallory braked to a stop twenty feet from the man. More soldiers emerged from concealmt in the brown growth of weed. "Russians," Sally whispered. O NE of the soldiers, an officer to judge from the shoulder boards and the bolstered automatic, sauntered forward, a cigarette between his lips. He had a wide mouth, eyes that were narrowed to slits, sandy hair that needed cutting. A couple of medals were pinned to his stained tunic. He stood by the truck, looking it Over, looking Mallory over, peering expressionlely at Sally. "Get out, please," he said in a conversational tone and stepped back a pace. "Put both hands over your heads." Mallory and the girl climbed down. They stood in the road, waiting. The men came, glanced at them, checked the back of the tmck. At a nod from the officer, one of the men searched them, took Mallory's .#. "I am Lieutenant Brozhny," the officer said. "Who are you? Where do you come from?" He had only a faint Slavonic accent. "I'm a civilian. Mallory is the name. This is Miss Hodges. We came from near Beatrice." "How near?" "Twelve miles." "Why did you leave? The sickness?" "There isn't any sickness." "You are aware this area has been designated off limits?" "I could see it was deserted." "You do not believe in following orders issued by competent authority?" "I never heard of the orders." "The woman is your wife? Mistress?" "Mistress," Sally said promptly, taking Mallory's arm. The officer pur his lips. "What did you observe in the vicinity of Beatrice?" He shifted his gaze from Mallory to Sally, back again, watching their expressions. Sally pressed Mallory's arm wamingly. "Nothing," he said. The officer nodded as if this were the answer he had expected "I must ask you to accompa me to my headquarters," he said "This is a matter for the colonel to deal with." "You don't have to arrest us. I told you were were nonconi' batants -- "  "There are no noncombatants" the lieutenant said. "Please gpl into your vehicle. One of my mefl will drive." IF Mallory and Sally climbed into the cab. A gr inni ng, thick-featured youth with a goaty odor pushed in under the wheel, started up with a grinding of the starter gears. Fifty feet along the road a six-by-six Studebaker truck rolled out from the shelter of a tattered and sagging billboard. The other men swarmed aboard it. The pick-up did a U-tum and followed the bigger truck back toward the town limits of Crete. They drove through the threeblock business district, past another block of houses of diminishing grandeur, turned left into a farm road. It led for a mile across flat prairie. As it topped a rise Mallory saw a vast encampment spread across the fields below. There were acres of tents, miles of muddy catwalks, a score of jeeps, trucks, command cars, bearing the white star of the U.S. Army, some the red Soviet star. Men by the hundreds gazed out through the barbed-wire that encircled the bivouac. The pick-up braked beside a large farm house near the center of the camp, under a stand of sycamores. Sally held Mallory's hand as they climbed down to follow the Russian officer toward the house. The men standing by stared at the girl as they passed. The lieutenant conducted them through a former living room from which all the furniture had been removed, with the exception of some straight chairs and a library table. A uniformed girl sat at the table. typing. A large map of the state and the adjoining area was taped to the wail. Colored pins were stuck on the map in no discernible pattern. "Wait here," Brozhny said. He went through a door and closed it behind him. Through the curtainless windows men could be seen wandering across the yard. "They don't seem to be worried about the American prisoners causing any trouble," Sily said. "They let them wander around loose -- not even guarded." The door opened. The lieutenant beckoned. Mallory and Sly entered the adjoining room. It was a former parlor. A man lounged in a swivel chair behind a large desk. He played with a pencil held in blunt fingers. He was big, with a tough, square face short reddish hair. He wore a green uniform with three rows of ribbons and the silver eagles of a U.S. colonel. H e looked at Mallory and the girl. "I'm Colonel Strang," he said. "Brozhny tells you claim to have come from near Beatrice. That right?" Mallory nodded. "Clear up one point for me, will you, Colonel? Who's in charge? You or the Russians?" Strang stared at him. Brozhny laughed. "You thought the dreaded Reds had invaded Nebraska?" the lieutenant inquired in an amused tone. "Invaded, hell" Strang said and laughed without humor. "We invit them in. They're our allies. We've been invaded, all right -- but not by Russia." "I'm ad you realize that," MaQory said. "Nobody believ my description. I was about to to be convinced I was seeing things." "What are you talking about, man?" Strang frowned up at Mallory. "I'm talking about the creatures that have taken over Beatrice." "Creatures?" "You said you knew we'd been invaded." "And so we have," Strang said grimly. "By the Chinese Communists." # #They hit us on the morning X of the twenty-third of November," Strang said. "A day that will live in iiifamy beside Pearl Harbor and the sinking of the Maine, We underestimated the Chinese -- underestimated them badly. They had stuff we'd never dreamed of. They came dropping straight in from extreme altitude at velocities our radar people couldn't believe. We launched everything we had -- and they picked it out of the air. The Air Force scrambled -- but there was nothing for the fighters to fight. The bombers were called back when word came down on the hotline that the enemy wasn't the Russians. Then our radar went out. All of it, all at once. But IF wc knew where they were Rouped. We poured in the firepower, low-level bombers, strafers, armor. None of it got anywhere. Aircraft went out of control and crashed. Vehicles stopped dead. Guns wouldn't fire. That was when we called in the Red Army. And then, of course, the Sickness hit us. We had to pull back and regroup." "Is the fighting still going on?" Strang frown. "There hasn't actually been any fighting as such. The Chinks are an elusive enemy. We can't even make contact, danm it." The Colonel's fist hit the desk. "But we've got 'em stalled, bogged down. They bit off too much. They can't chew it." "That was diree months ago," Mallory said. "What's happened since?" "We've taken advantage of the lull to consolidate our positions, prepare our counterattack." "If you haven't made contact -- how do you know it's the Chinese?" "Who else would it be?" Strang came back. "And how is it you know nothing of all this?" "He's been sick," Sally spoke up quickly. "He's had amnesia." Strang grunted. "You claim you were near Beatrice. You saw nothing?" "I haven't seen any signs of the Chinese," Mallory said carefully. Strang nodded. "What did you do in civilian life, Mr. Mallory?" "I'm an engineer." "Good," Strang nodded. "I need engineers. I need everything I can get but qualified men most of I IS j Controvriiol I Uninhibifd I Deadly S#riout I Humorous I ond I Incrodibly Interestinfl? Brian Aldiss... Poul Anderson... Piers Anthony... Isaac Asimov... Richord Bergeron... Bob Bloch... Voughn Bode'...John Brunner... L. Sprogue de Comp...Terry Carr... John Christopher... Philip K. Dick... Harlon Ellison... Philip Jose' Former... Jock Goughan... Horry Horrison... Lee Hoffman... John Hayden Howard... Leo P. Kelley... Dean R. Koontz... Anne McCoffrey... Michael Moorcock... Alexei Ponshin... Mack Reynolds... Bill Rotsler... Mormon Spinrod... Bob Tucker... Harry Worner, Jr...Ted White... and many, many more... Richord E. Geis does his thing. Bi-Monthl y #pgs. Photo Offset P.O.Box #I # all. Mallory, I'm prepared to offer you a commission in my army." ".Your army?" Strang gave him a hard stare. "That's what I said. I raised it, I provision it, I give the orders. My army." "What does Washington say to all this?" "Not a damned thing." Strang said softly. "Or Moscow either. Better readjust your thinking, Mr. Mallory. The old organization is gone. Communications are gone and with them the old government, the old economy. The sooner you realize that, the better chance you'll have of surviving under the new conditions." "What's happened to all the people?" "I took the able-bodied ones, of course. The rest have been evacuated outside my perimeter. Why?" "I just wondered how they fit into the new order." "Forget them, Mallory: There are matters of naore immediate concern. As an officer, you'll have the best, of course. I've scoured the countryside, stockpiling supplies. You'll find we live pretty well here. Not that we're settling into complacency. Let the enemy get the impression that we are. All the better when I'm ready to make my move. They've put their necks into a noose, concentrating as they have. Panicked, no doubt, after their first unexpected successes. Like the Japs after' Pearl Harbor, they'd wiped out the U.S. Navy and didn't Imow what to do next." Strang rose, paced across the room and turned. "Damned shame you saw nothing in the Beatrice area. I need Intelligence, Mallory -- need it badly. I'd give my left arm to know what the yellow bastards are up to." He smacked his fist into his palm. "But with it or without it, I intend to hit them with everything I've got -- and wipe the city of Beatrice off the map." "Colonelrthere are no Chinese in Beatrice," Mallory said. "And how would you know?" "I was there -- two days ago." Strang walked around behind his desk and seated himself. He opened a drawer and took out an automatic pistol, laid it on the desk before him. "Tell it from the beginning, Mallory. This time tell it Mallory gave a terse account of everything that had happened from the moment of his awakening until his departure from the city. Strang eyed him disgustedly when he finished. "Your brains are scrambled," he said flatly. "Colonel, try to keep an open mind. Consider what I'm telling you. Everything you've said fits in with what I've told you -- " "Poppycock." "Have you seen a Chinese soldier? Even a corpse?" Mallory demanded. "I've explained to you -- " "You're wrong! There are thousands of people trapped in Beatrice. You can't bomb the city. Colonel. It would be mass murder!" (Please turn to page # ) IF All brain fronn birth, he had to learn about heart! against the cold of this strange, possibly hostile, alien world. Fingers of light probed be tween the mountain depressions ahead, signifying that morning had come and that the time had arrived to awaken his whole body, in this, his life's greatest trial. The swirled yellow-in-blue snappers around his boulder had finally quieted, some of the wounded dying while the more aggressive ones had scuttled away search of other prey. One-GirkTwo stared at the remining horde below, shivering with the thought of how close those razor-sharp claws had come to his soft, organic form. How fortunate he had been to respond in terror to their noisy click-clack during the dark of the night and to have scrambled to his present safe perch. From the number of injuries and deaths below, they must have slashed one another in wild displays of temper and frustration during the night. Was patience a necessary solution against the dangerous elements of this planet? Was it a necessary characteristic which he must possess to advance from a Two to a One? He did not know. Whatever the case, he was thrilled by the opportunity to strive for the mighty advancement of himself from a Two to a One. The fact that all of his kind had similar chances -- or perished -- made no difference to him. Instinctively and consciously his tiny body cried for the right and rejoiced at the situation's potential. Every One-Girk longed to be a One-Girk-One for that was the nature of his genetic heritage as well as his purpose for being. Actually the symbols One, Girk and Two were quite literal transcriptions of an otherwise alien viewpoint most difficult for human understanding. Though necessarily such symbols are vague approximations of their true meaning, human analogues exist which correspond and are useful. The first One stood for the fact that One-Girk-Two was composed primarily of neural tissue whose ultimate function might be that of providing the drive and decisionmaking function of the Unit -- a composite of many Girks, each of different but coordinated function. The Two stood for the fact that this particular One-Girk had achieved success in passing every civilized test for his species -- fourteen in total number -- except the last' Should he pass this last test, consisting partially of his ability to survive in a strange and hostile environment and partially upon an as yet unknown set of criteria, he would automatically raise himself to the rank of a One-Girk-One, with all of its rights and privileges assigned. Which simply meant that this particular Girk organism had been approved by the standards of his society and that he was fit to coordinate the activities of the complete, composite organism which made up the Girk Unit. Though his tiny eyebuds still roved over the tom and slain snappers, One-Girk-Two's busy thoughts actually reflected the lessons he had learned during his early period of trail successes. Being a Unit was the highest ideal. Noting and understanding relationships is a great achievement. To appreciate interrelationships fully, however, one must be a Unit. The fragments of instinctive concepts within the range of One-Girk-Two were awesome and overshadowed all feelings of fear during his present hideous test. H e glanced toward the horizon noting the fhin, dull streak of light reflected through the morning clouds. Dew had just fallen, leaving glistening spheres everywhere. One Girk Two stretched his surface membranes, the better to absorb the moisture. Turning back to the snappers below, he considered their relationship to the flora and fauna around. Without predators of some kind the fertile grasses and forests would soon be overgrazed and overburdened with herbivorous life forms. Then, life's balance destroyed, all would wither and die until a new balance came into being. He recognized the last thought as fragmentary, far below the Unit knowledge level of interrelationships. With the snappers, proper toll was taken of the herbivorous life forms, food of another kind was returned to the grasses below -- and this was as far as his present knowledge reached. Every cycle had other cycles interlaced -- the rain, the grass, the minerals, the animals -- perhaps, even as a lowly One-Girk-Two, if he were to concentrate sufficiently long and hard he would be able to see how the very planet's motion cycled and interlaced with the ultimate purpose of the snappers. The thought was one to muse on. But now the light had become stronger and he knew that the day would bring a new set of trials, a new set of tests -- perhaps even his death. It was nevertheless a joyfully encountered time -- for it could bring him closer to Unit status. His appendages were weak, developed primarily for locking into Unit position for life. His tools were primitive -- a heat gun, a food converter, a signal generator. Somewhere during the night a change in attitude had taken place in his makeup. Unable at first to use the heat gun against life forms even in self-defense, One-Girk-Two had scrabbled away from the snappers and found safety above their clacking claws. He had rationalized the action to the charge. But the night's changes in his attitude now caused him to unlimber the heat beam, take aim at the still living, dangerous snappers and press the button. Steam sizzled upward from the rocks below until they were covered with charred and smelly snappers no longer capable of action against him. He was truly relieved -- their sharply lined mouths and their clutching, curling foot pods, too, were gone. Another attitude had changed. Patience is good. Death, too, may serve a purpose -- that another might live... Would this thought endure for him to bring back? He did not surface? He did not know. His immediate danger over, he still held back to think through his next move. The light would soon be stronger. The ship, which was most certainly monitoring his every movement, would probably expect him to move soon. Would his test be valid without his moving constantly over the planet's surface? He did not know. Probably Inaction would mean automatic failure. And, having failed the test, this particular OneGirk-Two would be eliminated -- killed as useless, of no purpose in the cycle of things in his present form. He would be destroyed -- returned to ashes of ordinary chemical compounds to be spread over the single broad sea of the home planet. How civilized the test was! Tens of thousands of years ago the Two Girk Ones (bodies). Three Girk Ones (mobiles), along with the One Girk Ones (brains), were assembled into Units by trial and error caused by the play of wind and wave. How long it must have taken before civilization created a sensible set of rules for the making of Unit selections. The value of each assembled Unit was a matter of the selection process, too. He knew that should he survive the current tests he would become a part of a very important Unit indeed. Great inward pleasure swept through OneGirk-Two as he contemplated the future. The sun's rays probed his soft flesh. He pushed out his almost atrophied, fine line appendages and used them to move himself from the rock. Gravity was stronger here by an eighth than on his home world. Simple movement was slow and timeconsuming. He woke his body and put every cell to the effort of traversing the long, grassy valley. His senses were alerted for the tiniest sound which might indicate movement of snappers. His eyes and tympanic membranes were especially alerted for dangers of unknown size and type. Ahead he could see waving strands of. blue-green grass. To his right were low-lying hills, browned and dusty in the morning sun. Oh his left was a creek bed and beyond the creek bed he could see a thick forest of dark bluegreen. IF Immediately ahead he could spot the double humps of nesting insects he had found numerous and painful. On the day ot his aniv he had walked unknowingly into similar humps to be stung again and again. He gave these two wide berth. He arrived at the dry creek bed. He was careful not to dislodge gravel or rattle the dry, noisy brush as he slipped down to the bottom. The creek bed followed the edge of the forest and One-GirkTwo noted that a cleared space on either side of the bed gave him easy view of possible dangers. His only problems were the sharp-edged stones and pointed sticks that every now and then gouged into his tender flesh. Travel was not too hard, however. T he sudden sounds of scrambling rocks and the sliding of many feet slowed, then stopped him. He edged his slight tKxiy under the roots of a tree at the edge of the creek almost without thinking. The thundering noise rapidly turned to billows of dust and the outlines of gigantic animals. One-Girk-Two raised his heat beam to face the great bulks in the event the beasts chose him for their target. He did not think the beam would have much effect on their thick hides, however. He hid quietly. The herd thundered past without noting the little intruder. OneGirk-Two eased out to the middle of the bed again. He looked downward to find his signal generator gone. Without the ability to signal his position he would never be pick up by the ship. That was the same as failing the test! He backtracked anxiously, heaved a mental sigh when he found the equipment hanging to a root in his earlier hiding place. He carefully placed it back on his body by means of its loose strap, checked his food converter and retraced his path. The creek bed finally turned away from the forest. One-GirkTwo painfully pulled himself over the steep bank on the forest side. He did not want to go among the trees. Many unknowns could hide there. Still, the sun beat hot and heavy against his thin skin and the heat plus lack of moisture were major determinants in his next decision. He eased himself into the shadows of the vegetation, laboriously pulling himself along by means of brush and clumps of tough grass. Presently he stood before a giant black-boled tree fringed with delicate blue-green, lacy stringers. He looked up and saw thick branches and gnarled limbs linked with gossamer webbing. Birds? Insects? Plants? He did not know. He stepped gingerly forward, took another step, then suddenly felt himself caught and spun up and forward. His tiny appendages were held tightly. He could not reach for his heat beam; his body was held almost equally tight. He could not budge. II S trands of sticky fibers closed in on One GirkTwo, wrapping him in a nest of crisscross lines. He reflected on his position, noting other bundles like himself hanging from other tree branches. One bundle jerked and bobbed, swinging. The creature in it must have been stubborn -- its motion never stopped nor decreased in intensity. Te bundle jerked and swung for what seemed like hours. Suddenly upon it loomed a huge amorphous organism of generally spherical shape. And One-Giric Two could see that the new being had no observable appendages but somehow was able to cling to the jerking bundle. A told extruded from the creature and. stretched over the jerking bundle, wrapped around it. Soon the jerking decreased in intensity. One Girk Two sensed the odds were heavily against his survival. A deep depression struck him. Then, as swift as thought, his spirits soared as his imagery focused on his potential for reaching Unit status. He acted swiftly, massing all of his neural tissue together, linking each cell to the others and pushing his thoughts inward toward a central, hard core of being that demanded, over the random pulses of each tissue layer, attention to the central problem of escape. His associations flowed in a disciplined manner, searching and discarding possible solutions to his present plight. Finally the most probable line of approach appeared and was seized upon by more and more clusters of his neuronic boundaries. His massive intellect tested the thought, explored bypaths and finally resolved to try the idea. One Giric Two refocused part of his tissues on the animal ahead, primarily to keep up his guard. Then, with other parts of his body, he began the simple process of secreting liquids through his external membrane. The weak, watery acid was rapidly absorbed by the vegetable-like fibers holding him and capillary action moved the fluid evenly throughout the network. The wetn bing sagged, broke open. A nearly dehydrated One Girk Two fell clumsily to the ground. He knew a swift surge of pride and happiness, not at the thought of his own cleverness but at the thought that he was still eligible as a Unit component. Turning his attention back to the surrounding jungle, he careIF fully bypassed the webbing structures, slowly making his way once more through the tangled jungle. His external membrane slowly absorbed moisture from the rising humidity beneath the thick foliage, restoring his body fluids. Hunger came. But a mere moment's effort was needed to drop organic materials through his food converter and change them to a thin paste his body could ingest. He rested on the trunk of a fallen tree before moving on. conscious thought dwelt on the environment around him, comparing and classifying sensations and shapes into safe, possibly safe, possibly dangerous and dangerous categories. The vine now ahead of him, for example, appeared as safe a s thousands of others he had seen. Another part of this thought process, like some small, irritating insect, considered the principles or philosophies he was expected to formulate and present during the final testing. So far he had changed his pattern of behavior lowed that his attitude and orientation toward himself and the universe were also changed. Was the change in the proper direction? He did not know. Certainly the development of utilizing his whole mass of neural tissue when confronted with an otherwise unsolvable problem was in the right direction. Everything he instinctively knew about his hoped-for and ultimate goal spoke of even higher, almost godlike, powers of concentration that would be his as a Unit. The vine ahead of him waved but so did all the other vines, hanging nearby. The wind reached the vegetation through a cone in the jungle roof. One-Girk-Two passed under the dangling plant when, without any warning at all, it twisted and curled itself around him. One Girk Two contracted his body and slipped out of the coils. Unfortunately his heat beam was jerked from its carrying strap and crushed. Shock struck One Girk Two at his loss. Could he survive this hostile environment without the heat weapon? He did not know. B y the time One-Girk-Two had pushed his way up the steep ridge beyond the first section of jungle, daylight was no more than a faint, gray line stretched along the horizon. He figured that the last of it would be gone in moments. His passage had been slow and difficult. Deep shadows smoothed the ground around him while beneath him he could still feel the occasional pain from loose rocks and dead branches which often masked treacherous holes and low places. Twice he fell into such holes, making no outcry. Each time he carefully appraised his position, then pulled himself out in the most logical and expeditious manner. The unfamiliar gravity was beginning to take its toll, too. His body seemed to sag and his appendages, never very strong, were slower and slower to respond to his mental demands. With each step he became more aware of a weakness in his plans. How could he have decided simply to move on and on across this planet with no purpose to his direction? Perhaps he should have waited first to develop his philosophies. Whatever the case, his present need was to rest the night on the ridge overlooking the thick forest below. There he would at least, be safe from snappers. What else might lie in wait for him was unknown and unknowable -- hence, must be risked. He reached the end of the narrow, tablelike plateau along which he had traveled. Light was growing steadily weaker. In a very short while he would be on top of the ridge and would command his body to rest while part of him kept watch. A dry stick crackled and OneGirk-Two again plunged suddenly downward. This time his fall was more severe due to a longer distance. His body flattened outward, forming a thin membrane stretching precariously over rough, sharp rocks. More slowly than other times he pulled himself together and heightened his other senses. He could hear a low, muted air-sound at the end of his cavemlike trap. Assuming the sound to be the breathing of some kind of unknown, burrowing animal, he concentrated his senses on the walls surrounding him. The hole through which he had fallen had straight walls from top to bottom, showing no projections whatsoever. He had landed on tumbled rocks and organic debris, most of which had probably been sucked through the same hole that had caught him. But even in the dying light One Girk Two could see a tunnel lined with jagged rocks, probably created by ancient earth processes of long ago. The breathing came from somewhere in the darker portion of the tunnel. One Girk Two pulled himself into a corner of the pit and waited, every sense alert. The breathing seemed to rise and fall in decibels, depending upon how close he pinpointed its source. To test his conjecture he pushed his body toward the noise. The breathing quickened, grew louder. One Girk Two permitted his tissue to rest while part of his thoughts dwelt on the breathing phenomenon. The animal might IF or might not be dangerous. It pould also be more frightened of him than he of it. In either case, his tissues needed rest and, until some light found its way into this new prison, his best judgment was that he should now rest. Morning arrived. Slim streaks of light found their way into his hole. The animal in the tunnel proved considerably smaller than One Girk Two. Dark fur covered its whole body. Its peering eyes were sunk beneath folds of fur, showing large black centers for the collection of the dim light. He could make out small forms under the animal's body and realized that these were young and that the fur-covered parent probably would never leave until he did. He congratulated himself for having chosen to wait during the night before -- even harmless animals will attack when their young appear to be threatened. One-Girk-Two surmised that the tunnel was the animal's normal entranceway to the cavern. He decided to bypass the nest in any effort to make his way to the outside world. He grasped a rocky shard, held it between himself and the frightened animal as he moved toward and alongside the nest, beast bared its rows of teeth, repositioning itself always to face the intruder. One Girk Two sidled past, pressing toward the opening. He let himself down into a narrow gash, shallow and barely wide enough to accomodate his bulk, yet a lucky opening, maybe, to the outside world. He worked his way down slowly, finding descent surprisingly easy -- until his good fortune ended. Above his head was a crevice too high to climb. Through it came a spear of light illuminating a steep opening at his lower appendages. He could not leap across the gap. H e puzzled over the impasse for a moment, then put all of his mind to work on the problem as he had learned to do when caught by the tree-webbing. Time stretched out for him while connections and cross-connections were forged. Every possible solution to his difficulty presented itself and was discarded for one reason or another -- including the retracting of steps to secure bridge-building materials from the burrowing animal's nest. The only solution was no solution at all -- rather, it was a gamble. He must attempt the jump. His brain estimated that his death was probable, regardless of which alternative he took. It told him that the probability of his successfully jumping the crevice was small -- as little as, perhaps, #. Yet to do nothing was also certain death, for it meant failure. He glanced down again, noting the sharp projections of rocks along the sides of the crevice. He could not see the bottom. He did hear a light sibilance -- a breath of air or maybe an echo of running water. Perhaps his brain had estimated a choice based upon subliminal impressions -- perhaps there was water below. He set himself for the jump. He gathered together his various appendages and pushed them all in the same direction against the floor, arching clumsily over the center of the crevice. He did not make it. He fell swiftly. Ill T he fall was long. OneGirk-Two believed that his body could not repair itself after a fall of such a distance. The noise of coursing water became plain, however, and just after drifting into deep despair, he found himself plunging deeply into a cold, swift stream. His body pushed through the water and pressed itself lightly against the stream bed before the effects of the fall stopped. Naturally buoyant, his body rose to the surface of the stream where, bobbing around and up and down like a piece of tree bark, he rode the stream's swift, dark flight. One Girk Two adjusted his metabolism to both the dark and the cold. He realized that his food converter was gone. He reached into the surrounding water in search of it but to no avail. The stream's pounding through rocks and narrow creces was now audible. One Girk Two was heavily battered at every turn. The stream arched outward in a long, sweeping waterfall which he rode down, plunging once again to the bottom. The tunnel walls widened and his ride became more even and slow. Light showed at the end of the tunnel. Like a leisurely and pleasure-seeking vacationer One Girk-Two finally floated out of the tunnel's mouth and into sunlight. He was too exhausted to struggle from the river to the bank. He rested most of his .body but let his remaining neural tissue dwell on whatever random stimuli came to it. Inevitably his thoughts raced back to the beginning of his present plight and the conflicting emotions he felt over it. He was still alive, hence certainly still eligible for One-GirkOne status. Were his signal generator to be activated now, signaling the end of this portion of the final test, he would still be lacking those essential principles required for the true Unit status. What could they be? He did not know. IF Cover was scant along the stream's banks. There was only a litter of rocks that had -- in stormridden times past -- scoured muddy grooves down the mountainside nd had come to rest along the foot of its scrubby, thinly grown foothills. Such plant life as existed had managed to sprout and to maintain itself on barren ground in the heat-blasted summers and extremely bitter winters. Scorching heat, even now, caused visible steam to rise from the river's surface. One Girk Two had passed through a steep mountain range which divided this land into two climate zones. He almost wished for a return to the more comfortable but probably more dangerous jungle zone. Only his signal generator remained. Food there would be plentiful for him to absorb through his membrane. Here, without his food converter and heat-beam, his nourishment would probably have to come from raw blood of small animals. He shivered at the uncivilized thought. By now the sun had reached its highest point. One Girk Two, using only a portion of his tissues, ma.de the decision to stay in the water. It had slowed to a sluggish, muddy river. He let his body rest, closing down even more of his conscious processes until only slight attention was placed on the surround-; ing environment. The river swept slowly around snaky bends, moving him as much as five miles in curvilinear distance for every mile of linear. Trees, tall and stately, began to appear along the banks of the river. The sun passed its zenith aid crept downward and the trees cast longer shadows. Another turn in the river and a net fell over One Girk Two, entangling him and stimulating his tissue to full wakefulness. out.logs, had surrounded his floating form and thrown a net over him while he had rested. They appeared to be bipedal with two arms, two eyes, two ears and coverings of purple, silky, hairlike growth. Their mouths were rounded and, as they made what seemed to be talking noises to one another, he could see viciouslooking, needle-sharp teeth. One jabbed at him with a wide stick probably used to propel a log through the water. One-GirkTwo let his membrane stretch to absorb the blow. His appendages were busy below the waterline, testing and searching every strand in the net for some access route or weak link. He found none. The net was drawn together more tightly and, without further blows from the floating animals. he was hauled into one of their hollowed logs. Here their inspection became more detailed and more painful to One Girk Two. Two of the animals, using sharpened sticks, prodded and poked him in every possible spot. Again and again he adjusted his membrane to absorb the blows but even his remarkable stretching capacity was finally not enough. One animal turned noisily to another, then prodded the stick almost through him. His outer membrane punctured now, his fluids leaked out. Excruciating pain overcame him. He shut off the aching parts of his body, placing them to sleep, then continued to dodge other prods from the short sticks. Soon almost every part of his brain-tissue anatomy was compartmented and One-Girk-Two fell unconscious. F rom One-Girk-Two's cage various tribal members could be seen in various positions of sitting, squatting or walking around the community fire. Twisted fibers from a tough tree root formed the bars of the cage. He had already learned that his weak body acids would not burn the bars. Most of his body tissues were closed off, preventing the continuous pain from searing through his consciousness. Water was never offered to him and he had to absorb what liquids he could from the humidity of the atmosphere -- a pitiful quantity, barely allowing his normal biological functions to proceed. Food consisted of scraps of garbage thrown by amused bystanders and only through trial and error had he learned which scraps were sufficiently fine-grained to be absorbed by his external membrane. Some food had to be washed by exudations of his body fluids, breaking down their cellular structure further so that he could absorb some of the nutrients. Other particles had to be left to rot until microorganisms had sufficiently broken up the materials. All these ways to provide himself with life-giving nourishment were new, invented by himself out of necessity. Though all these primitive conditions for survival were painful and burdensome, nothing hurt One-Girk-Two so much as the loss of his signal generator. Without that precious device, life itself was unimportant -- for without the opportunity to become a member of a Unit he was nothing. A spark of hope continued to linger within him. He could see the si)jnal generator hanging on the chiefs neck. It was a nigged mechanism and might still be operating in spite of the daily abuse it received. One-Girk-Two often directed the total mass of his tissues into IF J# search for a solution to his present plight. A slight suggestion of escape -- a bare, tenuous possibility -- offered itself. To that possibility, he devoted every bit of conscious neural tissue. Evening was the time for peaceful tribal social gatherings. At that time, fishermen, hunters and their trainees, the children, relaxed. Sleep was not far away. Daylight was nearly gone and few daily activities remained to be performed. Females of the tribe usually enclosed the very young in brilliant red skinfolds to protect them from the cold. The older children, more self-sufficient, followed the footsteps of their assigned teacher or formed into larger groups for games. Frequently a group of youngsters would assemble outside OneGirk-Two's cage to prod him with sticks, throw pebbles, sand or garbage or simply to stand quietly and stare from large unblinking eyes. One of the primitive alien children in particular had sustained a curiosity unusual for the group. He had never teased or thrown objects. He had come night after night to stare and seemingly to study One-Girk-Two. One-Girk-Two always looked forward to this event -- for in that small alien's behavior lay the tiny, almost insignificant possibility of his survival. He had determined to learn the tribe's language and to develop facility in it. The small, unblinking male child who was such a frequent visitor was his major key to the effort. There were always children surrounding the cage who prodded or teased; the opportunity to contact this particular male child was not easy to come by. The strategy finally developed was simple. Whenever the thoughtful male child appeared. One Girk Two would immediately sidle over to him, placing his body as close to the child as possible. There was. nothing more he could do until he learned the language. Meanwhile he absorbed noises and patterns of behavior associated with his captors' speaking modes. Had his body not been so totally injured and compartmented he might have learned far more rapidly than he did. But he did learn. The day finally arrived when persistent use of his remaining integrative functions brought the language to his abnormally small conscious portion and, with the exception of some ambiguities here and there, he knew that he was ready for his initial speech attempts. He tried them on his prospective friend when other children were not around. T he noises were not too easily recognizable as speech, for One Girk Two's membrane was not capable of imitating sounds struck from needlesharp dentures. At first the child to whom they were directed was delighted with the new phenomenon and invited everyone to hear the sounds. Prodding by sticks increased' until he and the others learned that One Girk Two immediately shut off the sounds under such circumstances. Then, for many weeks, all prodding ceased and One Girk Two rewarded their behavior by attempting his peculiar speech patterns at every opportunity. Visiting tribesmen from other geographical regions were fascinated with One-Girk-Two and soon great status was associated with the tribe that possessed him. His speech improved slowly. He rewarded Sutic, the young male he had chosen for a friend, by reserving for him a true description of his origins. "I am One-Girk-Two from another world beyond your sun. I am here to complete my apprenticeship before becoming a One-Girk-One when, should I pass the final test, I become a member of a Unit." Such concepts as Unit and OneGirk-Two were exceedingly difficult to communicate to the primitive alien and were perhaps never made clear. The idea of a "world beyond your sun" was not quite so difficult to convey, for Sutic was familiar with worlds beyond the desert, beyond the mountain, bevond the trees, beyond life and so on. And soon Sutic's special knowledge of the captive raised him in the esteem of his elders. In as short a time as possible One Girk Two made his request. "I must have the box hanging around your chiefs neck. Without it I will not continue to live," he pleaded. "My grandfather places much sebble on the box. He would never part with it." One Girk Two was unable to translate the word sebble. He inferred that it represented prestige or magic. Cold weather set in, causing One Girk Two to place his major efforts on maintaining his body temperature. He assumed the shape of a sphere in order to conserve the maximum amount of heat. He explained to Sutic, who acquired for him a place nearer the ever-present campfire and caused animal hides to be placed inside his cage. But OneGirk-Two continued to be unable to shake Sutic's reluctance to approach his grandfather on the subject of the box. His watchers, high above, surely knew where he was and what was happening to him for they had broad and mysterious powers belonging only to the Unit level. But the rules for trial were clear and specific. He must maintain signal contact with them and be ready to respond to their signal at any time they initiated the contact. Soon, he knew, he would be stranded among these aliens should he fail to maintain his proper signal in the generator. He might already be stranded. There was no way to tell. During the period of time that his signal generator had been worn by the chief, signals may already have come and passed him by. If this were the case, all his efforts to retrieve the box were already too late. He did not know. Slowly One Girk Two became part of the tradition of Sutic's tribe, the Corogers. The cold season passed; the windy season passed and was followed by the hot season. The sun blazed mercilessly. One Girk Two was given his physical freedom as a pet of the tribe. He found manyexcuses to remain by the chiefs side and near the signal generator. One was that part of his mission might prove to be to acquire a thorough knowledge of the tribe -- and what better observation post? Another was that an opportunity to use the signal generator might come. He learned that the tribe's life was stable in both births and deaths. Food was easy to reach in the streams or in the foothills and deserts. The climate was not too immoderate for the Corogers' genetic heritage and their tempers, though savage, were for the most part even. The tribe lived an unassuming life -- and within this pastoral but primitive framework the more civilized but incomplete One Girk Two watched and waited. He reflected on the lessons he must learn on this venture, their possible content, their significance with respect to Girk life, evolution and development, and his particular future role in his culture's matrix. IV L ife to any Girk is simple though it may not appear so to an outsider. Each Girk is born of the apparently undifferentiated parent mass of cellular tissue that once covered the floor of his planet's single ocean. Variations in temperature and nutrients surrounding the parent tissue cause a differing in the type and kind of budding which, when pulled out from the parent, becomes a particular kind of Girk. Usually the One-Girks stem from the hotter, equatorial regions. The Two-Girks -- the bodies ' -- usually come from the slightly cooler regions. The Three-Girks -- the mobiles of various sizes and shapes -- come from even cooler regions. The Twelve-Girks -- tiny reproductive cellular clust(rs which might eventually return to the parent body at some point distant in geography and time -- usually come from the coldest regions of aU. One-Girk-Two quite often reflected on the early beginnings of his race -- the complexities and simplicities, the beauty and rightness. He contrasted his race's evolutionary path against that of his captors, the Corogers, noting their strange incompleteness and nonunified nature -- they were almost like single Girks for life. Yet he often marveled that they had brains, body, legs and arms and other characteristics which operated with singleness of purpose much like a Unit. Thousands of years earlier OneGirks, Two-Girks and all other Girk components, separated from parent, were tossed and moved by the winds and the sea currents more or less at random across the planet's single ocean. They intermingled, one kind of component with another until, by chance alone, a complete Unit was created and civilization evolved. The early Units, though defective in philosophy and behavior, managed to create a more advanced developmental stage, opening to their more mature senses and thinking capacity many secrets of the physic world. Eventually the application of science to the formation Units brought about the design of a selection process whereby only those components -- One Girk Ones, Two Girk Ones and so forth -- which were most fit, became part of the completed Units. One Girk Two reflected on the precision and desirability of the tests. The Girk culture had become immensely improved in the period of only one generation. Subsequent refinements of the tests had brought it to greater heights. One Girk Two had been subjected to hundreds of tests which measured his ability to utilize both inductive and deductive reasoning as well as his ability to solve intuitional and associational insight-action problems. What was the exact extent of his powers? He reflected on his latest change in knowledge and behavior. He had killed. He had suffered great pain, indignities and humiliations at the hands of primitive, backward, alien beings. Yet, he had striven, in a sense, to join his tormentors. Did this mean that he had little by little realized that these beings, too, had a right to grow and to evolve in their own manner? He examined the principle of cooperation between dien species -- himself and the Corogers. One Girk Two was able to teach his captors some simple things. One of these was the idea and use of the wheel. Another was simpler in technique but reIF ;ulted in more praise -- how to nake fire. This second benefit Teed the primitives from constant flame-guarding. Such was the value placed on this bestowal that Sutic's grandfather, in great ceremony and in front of the whole tribe,, said, "You have made us a gift of much value. We no longer have the right to retain that which you desire so strongly. Take the box as a gift in return for your gift of firemaking to us." One Girk Two was overjoyed. He checked the box and found that his Girk monitor was still watching and observing his behavior. Strapping the signal generator once more to his form with animal thongs, he proudly made his way through the tribe, knowing a feeling of oneness and love for these strange beings. Somehow, in some way, this primitive group of aliens had to be componentized. That, he thought, should be his greatest and best gift to them. He could work from several different levels. Already these primitives had a well-developed social structure which tended to specialize activities within a unitary whole. It could be improved upon. And biological unitization could be made to take place at another level -- but what would be the end result? If he changed these creatures -- would they still be his friends and he theirs? One Girk Two contemplated in silence the mightiest task that had as yet occurred to him -- if he could accomplish it. To change the biological nature of a life-form -- was that not a kind of destruction, death, no matter what the reasoning behind it? Would he not be using on his friends a weapon deadlier than the heat-beam he had lost? After long, quiet evenings of thought he finally formed a conclusion. Though minor help, like the wheel and the fire-making, could be given to less developed beings tnan himself, it was not his place to change their natural organic integrity. very thought. One Girk Two's signal came. Strangely, he was unexcited and ready for it, as could easily be determined by the deliberate manner in which he pushed the return signal in proper code sequence. Then he waited. High in the sky, like a crystalline jewel sparkling brighdy in strong sunshine, hung the energyballoon. It would be operated by a Unit from the ship overhead, just as it had been on his arrival upon the planet's crust so many months before. As the bright point of light became even bigger and brighter, the activities of the Corogers ceased. The light became larger and expanded. The craft became visible. Its outlines became clearer, representing nothing more or less than a bubble with nothing inside. It stopped near One-Girk-Two, controlled entirely by the signal generator, and it waited. He moved to, it pushing his small body against the outer wall, thus blending himself with the wall itself. To One Girk Two's primitive friends it appeared as though he had walked through the bubble's walls. One Girk Two turned to watch the tribe from inside the hollow sphere. This was truly a parting, for he would have to wait for them to come to the Unit stage -- or its equivalent -- in their own time and in their own peculiar manner. Sadly he removed his signal generator, pushed it through the bubble's wl and dropped it at the feet of Sutic, the first friend he had known anywhere. A great noise rose from the mouths and throats of the tribe. One-Girk-Two knew he had passed the physical survival portion of his test. Had he also passed the philosophical, unknown portion? He did not know more than that love in all its forms must represent great risks and he had just taken all of them. What did this mean? The Unit guiding the bubble of forces upward would give him his answer.  A National imorgoncy has bean declared. The campuses are quiet -- and deadly. A fast-moving novelette of a typical California University of the future! It runs on a different time track. The local may bed you with nine women in one night -- but watch out for the express... Lieutenant Grimes was caught in a war of souls, neither of them his own -- or human! Some persons still living believe humans can communicate -- with each other! Also: Frank Herbert, Willy Ley, Algis Budrys. All in one big issue, on your newsstand now! M ost pulp-magazine publishing came to an end some twenty years ago because of what might be termed "Gresham's Law" of popular literature: Bad fiction tends to drive out the good from the market place. If a good magazine became popular, fifty cheap imitations were rushed to the stands. This syphoned off some sales of the good one and also disgusted many readers who might have liked such stories if they had found good examples. So far, this hasn't happened to science-fiction magazines. But there is some evidence that a trend in that direction is developing in the books that bear our label. Science fiction is a marketable commodity; it may not sell in vast quantities, but books carrying the term prominently do rather better than many other categories. And consequently, the men who ride trends are beginning to issue almost anything on which they can put the words that seem to draw readers. The latest -- and to my mind, most flagrant -- case is Holding Your Eight Hands, An Anthology of Science Fiction Verse, edited by Edward Lucie-Smith (Doubleday, #). There are some examples of the work of science-fiction and fantasy writers included: Aldiss, Disch and Lovecraft among them. There are also a number of pieces from poets that deal with subjects now in the news which were once used n science fiction -- and which ivere whipped to death back in the dim days of the beat poets. Anything goes. While Robert Conquest writes of science fiction in genuine verse, George MacBeth fills much more space with a bunch of folksy prose paragraphs about Herman Kahn's theories. There's little here to gladden the heart of either a science-fiction fan or the general reader. Yet it will probably get better reviews than most science fiction; and because of the label, it may well sell more copies than most books of poetry today. Ah, well... The poets of the day, Banging on wash-tub bottoms, Sing in cacophony Sans scan, sans rhyme, sans reasons. They write of archetypes, Speak atom bombs and fission. And when the markers right They call it science fiction. Their critic daisy chains. In quid pro quo ovations, Extol their latest fads -- And fraud them publication. Such an attempt to ride the market trends is a little exceptional, of course. A more normal trick is to dig back through old magazine issues to find something that nobody else wanted and to hail it as a classic -- or to put it out as if it were something fresh from the writer, in some cases. Often, such works aren't even given a superficial revision to bring them into line with current events. T he rose, by Charles L. Harness (Berkley, #), is an example of the "great lost classic" ploy. There's no effort to conceal that this is from the volume Authentic Science Fiction of #. Instead, the publishers boast of the fact, as if they were doing us a great favor in bringing us this rare jewel that no American magazine had the exquisite taste to publish. The point is further emphasized in a foreword by Michael Moorcock which indicates that this is a landmark novel by one of the greatest of science-fiction writers. I have no quarrel with his rati)g of Harness. The man established himself as a major writer with a single short novel. Flight into Yesterday, some twenty years ago. And despite a meager output, his reputation has deservedly remained high. Even the best writers, however, may lose perspective on some story dear to their hearts, with residts that should best be forgiven and forgotten quickly. The Rose has all the complexity for which Harness is noted, but it has very little underneath to justify all the themes and counterthemes. Instead, it seems to fall back on artiness -- a grave danger to any story which tries to talk about art as something more than a product of man's emotions. Much of the basic idea bogs down In an attempt to equate Art with the functions of science and mathematics as a means of controlling whatever Reality may be. The story is loaded and overloaded with symbolism. There's a Dancer and a Poet at the center of it all. Both are crippled and tortured; both are tools of folly. There's an unfinished ballet that must be performed, which will then do what all of science has failed to accomplish. And there's naturally a somewhat tragic mood of love. But most of it is as unconvincing as the description of the dance, which is so obviously impossible as a ballet that everything seems a little ridiculous. The whole thing comes off as an unhappy bit of what I can only call adolescent fiction. It takes on the vague profundity of an adolescent's first struggles for a sense of values and importance -- with everything in capital letters to conceal the fact that too much of the fury involves nothing but empty symbols -- the Reality of Art, the Meaning of Existence, and such. There's a great deal of color in some of the scenes, but the scenes take place to fill empty spaces, rath than giving us any true picture of what is happening Anyhow, it isn't a novel. The book is padded out with a number of shorter pieces to bring this novella up to publishable size. None of the stories are Harness at his best. T he ring of ritournel, by Charles L. Harness (Berkley, #), is another matter. This is an original novel -- full-length and current. Many of the themes that are vaguely hinted or heavyhanded in the older story are given the treatment they deserve. Art is still with us, but now it is in context with the worlds of science and religion. The texture and complexity of Harness' writing comes through much better. And the characters are more than mere symbols. The poet, in particular, through the eyes of the main character, his brother. Like much of Harness' work, this isn't always easy to follow. But there is a fascination to it, and a feeling in the end that the events have justified the effort required to understand them. Perhaps the most unwisely reprinted writer in our field has been Edmond Hamilton. Over a course of four decades, he has steadily improved his vision and his crt; today he is among the best writers of adventure science fiction, and any new book by him is one I buy automatically. Publishers normally list the date and source of the original appearance on the copyright page, so it shouldn't be too hard to IF determine whether a book is a reprint from the morgue of our beginnings despite title changes. Yet most readers aren't that sophisticated. I've heard Hamilton damned by fairly perceptive readers on the basis of work done forty years ago, when the writing standards of the whole field were much different. Now there's a new batch of novels by Hamilton that don't represent his best efforts. There was nothing wrong with the Captain Future stories when they appeared in the magazines twenty years ago. They were meant to be series stories based on a mechanical formula, like many other series characters from the pulp era. They were fastaction novels in which the plotting was almost as fixed as the choreography of a traditional ballet. Hamilton turned them out at regular intervals. His writing was honest for the purpose, but was never intended to represent anything but formula work. Now the publishers of Popular Library -- who own the original copyright from the magazines -- are issuing the Captain Future stories as soft-cover books. There is no attempt to deceive, of coui; the copy on the back cover clearly identifies each book as a Captain Future novel. That is fine for the readers who already know who and what the Captain was. Unfortunately, of the book-buying science-fiction public, this probably represents less than #. Any unaware reader who picks up Hamilton's Outlaw World (Popular Library, #) is risking disappointment if he expects a story of the quality of other work by the same man. The characterization is skimpy and routine, because the Captain and his rather contrived crew are little more than easily identified pieces in a regular game. And the story is skimpy because it was written to length and to schedule, rather than as a tale to stand on its own merits. Ifs good fun for those who know and like the rules of that game, but not for the unaware. ilton's current standard the Captain Future stories are, one ne only turn to his latest series, such as World of the Starwolves (Ace, #). This is clearly labeled StarwolJ No. # so there can be no confusion as to its being a series, and it's a full-sized softcover at a rather reasonable price. This shows evidence of having been designed for book publication, even though meant as a series. Morgan Chane, the hero, has been brought up by the outlaw starwolves and is now opposed to them. But beyond that basic situation and some parts of his character, the book shows a considerable flexibility in the choice of situation and secondary characters. It is also an action story -- but the action is keyed to a more adult audience, with leisure to build up the suspense and mood, rather than the need to spring immediately into full action. There are grays in the mood and in the characters, rather than the absolute good guys and bad guys. Furthermore, the reader who picks up this book need not understand even the fact that it is a series to enjoy it. Hamilton has time and space to develop the basic facts of Chane's background, and the story otherwise might be any adventure novel. The Starwolf series isn't the best of Hamilton -- probably no writer can do his best work around any series situation; but it is enjoyable, and by all odds the best deliberate series I've come across in the field. A number of books written for the teen-age market (which usually means somewhere between # and #) are now appearing in soft covers, with no indication of their original purpose. In the case of Andre Norton and most Heinlein "juveniles," this doesn't much matter; they were never very tightly geared to any particular age. But in other books, the handling isn't one that will completely please an adult. One of my books. Attack from Atlantis (Tempo Books, #tf), deals with a civilization that has existed for millennia on the sea bottom until an atomic submarine discovers it. (It's not the Atlantis!) This was written in # when atomic subs were fairly novel and before men had reached great depths. The foreword and some of the early subject matter are based on what has not yet been done, and should have been revised, along with a small amount that was deliberately written for the young reader. Yet when the soft-cover rights were purchased, no opportunity for revision was offered; nor is ere any sign that the editor took the trouble to cut out a few references that were of no use and are now out of date. It would be hard to blame an adult who decided to browse through science fiction and picked my book for feeling that the field is kid stuff. Yet such a reader, unfamiliar with most science fiction, might be attracted to the book by the use of the term "Atlantis" in the title. It was an honest book in its original intent, I feel. But I'm a little unhappy to see it picked up by an unfamiliar reader who decided to sample this science-fiction stuff people talk about. If these various forms of rushing almost anything called science fiction into print harm the field as a market, however, it will be only partly the fault of the publishers. TTie writers must share some measure of responsibility IF when they control the rights. All of us -- and I certainly include myself -- must obviously start demanding and exercising our right to revise anything that can be made suitable for a broader or different market; and we must sometimes refuse to sell rights to stories that really should no longer be in print. Until this Utopia arrives, the reader can only protect himself by watching the copyright notices and by doing more than read the blurb inside and on the back cover. Most stores will permit a buyer to glance over the first couple of pages of a book, if he shows signs of paying for what he likes, rather than using the store as a library. It's usually possible to tell in those two pages whether a book is of the level wanted. There's no law that forbids us screaming a bit in a letter to the publisher when we feel there was misrepresentation; but how much good that does is anybody's guess. O N A more pleasant level, there's a book where no faintest taint of misrepresentation can be suspected. Decision at Donna, by Anne McCaffrey (Ballentine Books, #), is an original first published in #. It's a book written for adults, completely independent of any others by the same author, and it includes enough information about itself in the blurbs for the reader to make a fair guess as to what he will get. What he gets is a good adventure story. The few human colonists on Doona are struggling to make their world ready for the larger horde of settlers to come when they run into an unexpected problem. Another race is discovered on Doona -- a world supposedly carefully checked to make sure it has no intelligent life. The colonists from Earth find some evidence that the aliens may even be superior in intelligence -- yet they still can find no evidence for a history of evolution to intelligence on the planet. If the aliens are natives. Earth's government is going to make the humans leave the planet -- but a return to overcrowded Earth is a nightmare to these social misfits up there. On the other hand, if it turns out that these aliens come from some other world (despite their seeming lack of space ships), the problem is one for which there is no clear answer, but one which each government bureau will decide to take over in absolute and conflicting authority. It's a nice situation, well handled, and with aliens that are sufficiently believable and interesting to add greatly to the story. Anne McCaffrey has avoided the too-easy trap of typing herself, I'm glad to see. Her previous work has been almost exclusively told from the point of view of a female character -- dragonrider, singing ship, or what have you. Here she uses a male as her protagonist. She slips into the masculine attitude easily and convincingly, and her female characters are seen as they would be viewed through the eyes of a man. She has also depended mostly on usihg characters with singular powers, such as telepathy or the cyborg awareness of her ip. The people on Doona have no such tricks up their sleeves; they have October #-November I, #. University of Wisconsin, Green Bay. The Secondary Universe is open to the first # registrants (# fee); the Tolkien Conference is open to all (# fee if not a member of the Tolkien Society of America). For information: Ivor A. Rogers, University of Wisconsin -- GB, Green Bay, Wisconsin #.  At Warwick Hotel, #th and Locust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal to depend on normal human resources, except for one boy who shows a bit too much and too easy empathy with the aliens. (That's a minor kick, though the child does skirt painfully close to being too much of a wonderchild.) She gets by very well without the crutch of extra-normal abilities to sharpen her insights. The idea of a first contact with an alien race isn't as fresh as McCaffrey's best-known other works. But it's handled with enough originality to breathe life into it.  speaker will be Anne McCaffrey. Membership: #. For information: Tom Purdom, # Cedar Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #.  Hilton Inn, San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests of Honor: Miriam Allen de Ford and E. Hoffman Price. Fan Guest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: # now, # after January #st, # at the door. For information at the door. For information: Quinn Yarbro, # Colusa ##, Berkeley, California  California. Guest of Honor: Jack Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California # I . IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven emselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art. Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Lei Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. AU of the stories belong to the excitingly modem era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. ' r #-I from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and danmed before it was even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # .# DiscouBt Price...#J# was he riding in a # Willys-Knit? If he was dead why wasn't he beginning a chilly half-life in the year #? And Grae Runciter -- murdered -- but sending him eerie messages from beyond the grave? Everywhere and anywhere Joe turned, in sky-writing, on a traffic ticket, graffiti, matchbook and did Joe really want to know the answer? Read this excitinp, new novel that starts as an important Luna Mission and ends as a living or dying diabolical nightmare. # pp. List Price...# Discount Price... # an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich must make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # #-# C. M. Kornbluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One oft the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests. The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbii book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... #.()# #-# BE#T #F: # edited by Harry Harrison and Brian W. Aldlsa. Collected for the first time... the bNUt SF stories of #...Asimov, Sheckley, MacDonald, Leiber... plus # other exciting stories... and, year, #: A Space Odyssey. This rich anthology of the year's most exciting stories from the best SF bookshelf. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# Heinleln'a Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, Uirough the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessar sensations. Into ; Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without, a soul; and  Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body ; was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What : fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in  their mutual torment. But somewhere, something  went wrong. Discover what happens when the pupi pets begin to pull their own strings in tUs imagi# pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# I I I I I ! I I S P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post OfiBce, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books I have circled. Please print full name  address S-l S-# S-# S-#, S-# Name S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# Address City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) stories you've been reading in these pages for some time, is clearly a writer with an imaginative and original mind. He's not only a writer -- the rest of his time he works as a mathematics professor at Tennessee A.  I., a land-grant college in Nashville, and in that capacity he also shows a lot of imagination and originality. His latest exploit is to install and direct one of the first and most complete research laboratories in Computer Aided Instruction -- C.A.I., for short -- in the country. Recently we had the privilege of visiting Tennessee A.  I. and went back to school one morning. Our teacher wasn't human. In fact, our teacher wasn't even in Tennessee. Teacher was actually a Pt)P-# computer located on the campus of Stanford University, some thousands of miles away in California, A smaller and somehumming and winking at us in the classroom but its function was only that of a sort of mechanized telephone operator. It took the messages involved in our own math lesson and those of the othei students sitting at a score of teletype consoles in the room, combined them and passed them on to California. We've "talked" with computers before -- played #-D tic-tac-toe and have done prime-number array at M.I.T. We've shot pool Princeton, N.J. -- but this deal was different. This was not a demonstration program or a game. This was the real thing. We were actually being educated. (High time, too!) Y ou arrive in the classroom at the appointed time and sit in front of the teletype. You type out your number and your first name. Two thousand mUes away the computer recognizes you and types out your last name to prove it, along with the drill number for your current lesson and a short statement of what it's going to be about. ("This is a lesson on common and decimal fractions." Or, "This is a lesson on addition.") And it proceeds at once to give you a problem. It types out: # X. #. Then it waits for about ten seconds. If you give it the right answer, it goes on to the next problem. If you don't give it any answer at all, it repeats the question. If you give it a wrong answer, it types, "No, try again." If you still give it a wrong answer, it types, "No, the correct answer is #, try again," and then repeats the question. And at the end of the drill, consisting of maybe # problems, it grades you and bids you farewell: "# Apr. #. # problems with # percent correct in # seconds. Goodbye, Frederik. Please tear off on the dotted line." (One thing. We really do know how much # X. # is -- at least most of the time. The score we got we have faithfully reproduced but we feel we should mention it was a bum rap. It was that low because we kept deliberately giving wrong answers to see what the machine would do. Actually, we could have easily gotten at least #.) Now, all of this will never replace the teacher, a fact well known to Perry Chapdelaine, to his Dean of the Department of Physics and Mathematics, Dr. Sadie Gasaway, to his Administrative Assistant, Mrs. Deitra Taylor, to Eh. Patrick Suppes, Director of the Institute for Mathematical Studies" in the Social Sciences at Stanford, who developed the program in the first place, and to all the other intelligent and able people involved. What it will do is make it possible for teachers to teach. unbeatably patient and reliable and so it is unbeatable at drill and review. It has no personality hangups. It doesn't take a dislike to any student because of his color, creed or length of hair. It has no tendency to show off in front of the English teacher across the hall, or to take time out for a lecture on why marijuana will rot your brains. It will just keep on giving you problems and checking your answers. If it finds you are getting them right it will move you up to harder problems. If it finds you're missing most of them it will slip in an easier set. And it will stay right with you for as long as you And so if you come to college and realize you goofed off on a little too much of your highfriend -- and your teacher's. For you it provides remedial instruction at your own level. For your teacher -- he doesn't have to hold up the whole class while he drills you in what you should have learned four years ago. Fellows, meet the computer. Computer, meet the human race. You might as well get to know each other. You're going to be working very closely together.  IF and Dear Editor: In your editorial to the May If you stated that much of the New Whatchamacallit science fiction was concerned with  petty antiheroes who whine over the lot of mankind but do nothing about it, That may be true of mainstream fiction, but it is hardly true of even New Wave science fiction, and  believe that you realize that as well as . Ive read a fair sampling of New Wave, and most of the protagonists are no John Carters or Kim Kinnisons, but they fall under the heading of heroes. They are not the perfect human beings the aforesaid two are, but they are not meant to be. They are mepnt to be fallible, ordinary men, and they illustrate the hero in us all, Sam in Lord of Light, Michael Valentine Smith, and certainly Jack Barron did not want to be heroes. They could have copped out but didnt. They did what they had to do. Even the characters of Harlan Ellison have the touch of greatness in them. Science fiction is proud that it works away from the mainstream, S-f fans do not need mainstream heroes like Hemingways Jake Barnes because mankind does not nepd Jake Barnes. Because certain writers introduce new techniques into s-f writing, the fans and writers have become afraid that Jake Barnes will become the model for heroes. So they condemn New Wave as a whole, and then praise Ellison, Disch and all the rest as individuals. Then they overlook the fact that The Holmes-Ginsbook Device is as New Wave as can be, wih superb statements on human motives. Asimovs story is concerned with anti-heroes, and his story is a classic, but there is no indication that his gloryhoggers will become models for protagonists. The fans and writers are in reality paranoid about the entire Issue, just as many are paranoid about sex in a story or elemertts of fantasy. You would think an s-f fan would be more rational. The plot of a story dictates whether or not one is a hero or an everyday human being, and there will be stories in which anti-heroes will have to be used, and they will be good stories. But no one writes science fiction because he feels there is no hope for mankind. I respect your talent as an editor and a writer, but your statement shows that you have been caught up in the same unreasoning fear that "many fans have been caught up in. It is false. The New Wave thinks as much of mankind as the Old Wave -- its just that the heroes must overcome, on top of their villains, their greatest foes -- themselves. And they d o . -- Arthur Cover. Who ever told you that Roger Zelazny was a New Wave writer? He denies it vigorously. Who ever hinted that Heinlein (even i n 'Stranger") was New Wave? If those were the New Wave writers, we'd be out in front of the cheering section Furthermore, Sam in the Zelazny story showed every sign of wanting to be a hero -- in fact, even a god! Come to think of it, he was a god, which is hardly an anti-hero; and neither he. Smith, nor any others on your list spent any time we can remember whining, but they did spend quite a bit of time doing something about the lot of mankind. And if you think Isaac Asimov is a New Wave writer, you're about to make a mortal enemy of him. The "Holmes-Ginsbook" story was a lampoon -- a takeoff on a very successful book about the deliberate use of science to get a Nobel prize. The protagonists are already there, and they're the model for Asimov's satiric characters. Our biggest objection to the antihero is that he doesn't try to overcome either the villain or himself; he doesn't change or try to change. Once a man starts to work on himself, he's out of the whining rut and he's trying to do something -- and we're then very much for him. Our biggest objection to the New Wave comes when it's neither new nor waving, but is simply the old slou where weak winds and wan waves labour nor any wind blows free, to steal a phrase from the best New Wave poet of the last century. Most of the time, it certainly isn't bucking the mainstream, as you imply; it's trying to use old mainstream tricks of pseudoexperimental writing and hopelessness to take over science fiction. Happens we're very much opposed to science fiction being taken over by anyone. We'd like a free market, where every story stands or falls on its own merits, and be damned to the mainstream or slipstream. Science fiction has kept going when most popular fiction died because it used interesting characters to deal with things that make good stories. When it picks up any other phony construct of how to write and what to write, it's going to join the dodo and the Sports Story. It's the job of critics to read the writers; when the writers start reading the critics for examples, someone has to yell. So we yelled. But of course, if you like it with namby-pamby anti-heroes given the job of making a tough planet (even Earth) habitable, well...less power to you, in New Wavese! Dear Editor: You mentioned a particle called a tachyon, a theoretical particle which cannot go slower than the spejed of light. According to my information, it has a rest mass of the square root of minus one. In one of Heinlefns novels. Citizen of the Galaxy, the hero explains the mathematical complexities of fasterthan-light flight thusly: So far as we are concerned, it's just a mathematical concept, like the square root of minus one... This to me is very remarkable. In the last few years, science fiction has been infected by what is called the 'new thing" or 'new wave." Personally,  define the 'hew wave" stories as ones attempting to confuse the reader, being shocking, IF using anti-heroes or having the prime object of style rather than content  though style is the means rather than the end. According to John J. Pierce, there is a movement called the Second Foundation which is for the preservation of true science fiction and the elimination of the new wave' type of anti-science fiction, with Lester del Rey as the First Speaker. Whether Mr. del Rey sanctions this or not, I think this is a very good choice; anyone who says #I was boring is all right by me. As a subscriber to If and Galaxy, I feel that you have let these magazines deteriorate over the past couple of years.  think Larry Niven is the only good regular writer you have, although  don't see why he keeps on with you. -- Matt Hickman, # #th St., West Des Moines, Iowa. According to the best information available on the tachyon, there is no rest mass, just as normal particles could have no assigned mass at infinite speed. The tachyon approaches infinite mass as it slows toward the speed of light. But so far, it's pretty much just a mathematical concept, as Heinlein apparently foresaw. As to the "Second Foundation" of John J. Pierce, Lester del Rey gave his permission for his name to be used with the honorary title of First Speaker; since he's been speaking against the attempt to impose any one set of standards on science fiction for years now, he felt he couldn't deny being Speaker whether first or early or whatever. Sorry you've been disappointed in what we have felt to be some fine issues of the magazines. But stick around, Matt! We're busy making a lot of improvements which should soon be showing up. And the reason Larry Niven -- for whom we share your admiration -- keeps on with us, perhaps it's because we're happy to let him write the kind of science fiction he wants to write. Dear Editor: I don't know if I'm going to be a new science fiction fan or not! I picked up a copy of If for the first time and, among other fascinating stories, stumbled across Perry Chap delaine's Spork of the Ay or." The man undoubtedly is mad. If his attendants in the white suits will let him turn out more "Sporks," I hope you print them. Mad or not, he can really write -- and he just might turn me into a permanent science fiction fan if they don't take away his pad and pencil and put him on basket weaving. -- Pat Harris, # Mexico Drive, Nashville, Tenn. We'll be printing several more stories about Spork, so rest content. And we hope you'll find the other stories so much to your liking that your fandom will become permanent. Incidentally if you're really concerned about Chapdelaine having to weave baskets, you might check up on him, since you can't be too far from his home. He certainly made a hit with the readers in Tennessee, judging by the mail we receive from there recently! Dear Ejditor: What is the status of Worlds of Fantasy? Is it still extant? It has now been something like six months since I purchased the first issue and, while I have been diligently searching through all the magazine stands, my efforts have been unrewarded. I've over-rationalized myself into being Conan the Barbarian, MidMi Twentieth-Century style. Thafs not good, but it's better than nothing. Kurt Vonnegut once wrote that we are only what we pretend to be so we all should do the best job of pretending we can. -- P. T. Blaine, Cambridge, Mass. It could be argued that children learn to be adults by pretending they are, and some of their games would support the idea. Lately, though, it seems quite a few adults are trying things in reverse. We're happy to say Worlds of Fantasy is coming out again. Trouble with distribution and other technical difficulties prevented our doing more than one issue until now, but the magazine is still extant, and a second issue should be on the stands this fall, with more to come. Dear Editor: Maybe your Mr. del Rey can supply an answer to a problem that has been bothering me, since he, seems ready to speculate, on almost anything in his column. But please don't use my real name, since another teacher here reads your magazine,.) One of my students noticed that the water level in a toilet bowl rose and fell whenever ther was a high wind. I checked, and he was right. But there is no way for wind to get into the system to make waves, and I can't believe there could be ground vibrations without our feeling them. This is probably silly, but it annoys me. Can you tel me what causes it? -- PuZ' zled. We passed your problem along, and here is what Mr. del Rey says will explain it: "Plumbing codes require vent pipes from bath fixtures, terminating in the standpipe you can see sticking up the roof of most houses. These form a huge cavity, or resonant chamber. When the wind supplies energy enough, pressure waves are set up in this cavity, just as sound pressure waves are set up when you blow across the mouth of an empty bottle. In this case, the system is so large that these pressure waves cannot produce audible sounds; it would probably be on the order of only two or three cycles or vibrations a second. But the pressure still transmits its effects from the air in the cavity to the water, which then rises and falls with the system frequency." Dear Editor: I would like to compliment you on the excellence of your magazine Worlds of If. No one can say science fiction is dying. On the contrary, science fiction is on its way up with If setting new trends. -- Jurgen Heidenreich, # #th Ave., S.E., Bellevue, Wash. We like your sentiments, naturally -- but we're using them here to show what happens. Matt Hickman thinks we're slipping badly, and you think we're on our way up. We get a lot of both kinds of comments, proving only that each of you is right -- for himself. All we hope is that both find our fiction moving up from now on -- because we're going to try even harder. And while we like both types of criticism, we like it even better when you let us know which stories you felt were the ones going up and which ones indicated your idea of a decline. Maybe with that type of information, we can find stories you'll both like more often. Which reminds us that with slightly more space from now on for a letter column, we'll need your comments. You set the tone here and provide the interesting topics for others to discuss. So let's hear from you. IF (Continued from page #) no longer numbered. An impractical separation, individual from individual, furrowed this crowd of strangers. They were no longer starched and ironed in their souls. Hesitantly Wheat sent a tongue of awareness questing inward, sensed the absence of the Machine. The ritual formulas were gone. The sloth and torpor had been peeled away. He tested the feelings of hatred, of passion, malice, pride. "It's dead," he murmured. H e led the race back into the town, then, rushing along streets where the artificial lights flickered and behaved with a beautiful uncontrolled randomness. With Wheat leading the way the mob plunged down into the screened openings which had kept them from the nether world of the Machine. The scene was one repeated all over the world. People swarmed through the dark tunnels and passages, celebrating the pleasures of freedom along these once forbidden paths. When the last golden wire had been torn out, the final delicate glass shape crushed -- when the tunnel girders no longer clanged with pounding metal -- an unreasonable silence fell over the land. Wheat emerged from the earth into white shadows of moonlight. He let a strange length of plastic fall from his hand. It glowed with pearls of dewlight along its length and had illuminated his rush through the mind passages of the Machine. Wheat's collar was loose and he felt a peculiar sense of shame. His eyes peered into sooty places. Shadows and dust were everywhere. He realized he had played the buffoon just as the Machine had done. A thing had happened and he recognized it in the way of a prophet. "We think we're free of it," he said. Somewhere in the wild collisions beneath the ground he had cut his left hand, a jagged slash across the knuckles. Exclamation points of blood fell from the wound into the dust. "I cut myself," Wheat said. "I did it to myself." The thought ignited a searching sensation that coursed all through him. Wheat carried the feeling all the way home to his wife who hobbled beautifully out of their doorway and stood waiting for him in the feeble flickering of a streetlight. She appeared abashed by all the confusion and the unfixed feeling at the center of her life. She had not yet learned how to fill out the areas the Machine had denied her. Wheat stumbled toward her, holding his injured hand out as though it were the most important thing that had ever occurred in his universe. "You're drunk," she said.   Continued from page #  the Jann agreed. "But I delayed for a time, that thou shoudst realize it for thyself. None but I shall do thee die, no animal, no entity, no microbe, no act of nature. But it shall be a kind demise, and it shall come in exactly fifty years, as thou requesteth. I shall always be near thee, to see that mine oath stands good." "Great!" So the Jann was in fact a bodyguard, perhaps the most competent in all the galaxy, preserving him from all dangers until he was ninety-two. Its oath had not, technically, required that it kill him soon; only that no one else be allowed to kill him. ham cried, remembering something current. "We have a student strike to deal with, back at the University. Oyster will kill me if I don't relieve the siege before all his files are gone."  ( Continued from page #) Strang drew a breath as if to yell, let it out slowly. "Mr. Mallory, you've had a bad time of it," he said flatly. "It's affected your mind. I can understand that. You were away from home when the attack came. You returned to find the city barred to you, your family dead. You couldn't take it. Your mind let go under th strain and you invented these zombies of yours to enable you to believe your wife and children are still living. I'm sorry for you -- but I can't let that interfere with military necessity. I need men -- and women. I need them badly." Strang glanced across at Brozhny. "I can't see that his delusions will prevent him from performing basic military duties. Lieutenant. Put him in D company. First battalion. And keep a sharp eye on him." "Just a minute, Strang -- " "That's Colonel Strang to you, private!" "Colonel, I don't have time to play soldier in your private army. My family's in that town -- " "Forget it," Strang said. "You're not going anywhere." He lifted the pistol as Mallory took a step toward him. "I'm warning you for the last time, private. The penalty for mutiny is the firing squad." "The colonel is quite serious," Brozhny said and took Mallory's arm. "Come along. You're not the first man to be drafted into the army in wartime." An exciting collection of stories about androids -- mechanical men and women so realistic Matheson, Charles Beaumont and other sci-fi greats. # Compiled and Edited by George W. Earley with an Introduction by Ivan T. Sanderson # pages-# A Space-Age Thriller by Richard M. Garvin  Edmond G. Addeo thriller, you'll meet the man who guards this secret with his life, his brother who dares to manding officer! # A Science-Fiction Suspense Thriller by Richard Garvin  Edmond E. Addeo When Communist China develops a weapon capable of destroying objects in the air-operated entirely by parapsychology, the existence of the world hangs in the balance! Immediately the US rushes into action in a desperate attempt to stave off the holocaust, involved are niques; spy schools and death-defying action. An action adventure story you won't be able to leave until the last page! # # Park Ave., Manhasset, N.Y. # Calif. Res. Add # Sales Tax  Include Your Zip Code Number The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to take Any # books oVI X  with trial membership Including, if you wish,    #: A S P A C... Arthur C. Clarke Hunting an alien "presence" In tl universe, # men and a computer gone psycho tic stumble upon the in credible secret of mankind's  birth -- only to trigger the Pub. ed. # cosmit "booby-trap" that could spell its death. A controversial best-seller by the most acclaimed science fiction writer of our era. H: A Space Odyssey bf-Mlling noval ond Science Fiction has grown up Have you kept up A new literary genre has come of age -- your age. Mature. Sophisticated. Provocative. And respected. You are invited to explore it now under an amazing trial offer. Take any # volumes on this page (worth up to # in original publishers editions) for only I with membership.  New club selections will be described to you in advance each month. Choose from new works of fiction -- and fact -- by such acclaimed authors as Ray Bradbui # . Rod Serling, Isaac Asimov, Arthur Clarke, Robert Heinlein and others. All volumes are full-length, hardbound -- and uncut. Though they sell for as much as #, # and more in their original publishers editions, club members pay only # plus shipping. (You may choose an optional extra-value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept as few as four books during the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #. ' Please accept my application for membership and rush me I the # books whose numbers I have circled below. Bill me only I #, plus shipping and handling, for all #. Then, every I month, send me the Club's free I bulletin, "Things to Come", which f -- I describes coming selections. For... each book I accept. I will pay only Cireia the numDert W #. plus shipping and handling, the # books you want, unless I take an extra-value selecbaa ana am I tion at a higher price. I need take J " I only four books within the coming I year and may resign at any time # # # , thereafter. # # # ' delighted with my introductory I package. I may return It in # I days to cancel membership. I If under #. parent must sign here. (Offer good in U.S.A. only) plete. Pub. ed. # tkMi, by Robert Silverberg. A group of #I t century revolutionaries are years into the past. Pub. ed. S# #. Tbc Pe -- ia tloa Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbaristn. Pub. ed. #S.# #. Last Starship From Earth by John Boyd. Young lovers Am loveless society ruled by computer "god . Pub. ed. #. #. The Past Throagh Tomorrow: "Future History" Stories, by Robert A. Heinlein. Pub. ed. # #. Twice # by Ray Bradbury. Fourty-four stories by the Grand Master of science fiction. Pub. ed. # #. Chocky by John Wyndham. Alien powers "possess" smaD boy in shocker from author of "Day of the Triffids". #. October the Pint Is Too Late. by Fred Hoyle. Solar beams play havoc with time on earth. Pub. ed. # by Kate Wilhelm. A scientist in the #rd century develops a robot with a laser eye. Pub. ed. # . A Treasury of Great Science Fiction. #-volume set. I .# pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # Printed In U.S.A, WORLDS OF PInriTTiiT # The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Rey, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: For Your Inf ormation -- Willy Ley, Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IP's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room, controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and where the editors, writers and artists blast back.  Novmbr, # Vel. I #, No. # lssw # James Tiptree, Jr # SiUAl Theresa M. Treadway # Arnold E. Abramson, Pvblii IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. AAain offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. # . #c per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere S#. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright  # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. The Dream Keepers E ighteen hundred tomorrow's children had finished eating a dead thing. The air was thick with dreams. Something unhuman was alive in the room and the dreamers all knew it. They were children only in terms of tomorrow -- tonight they were ageless and bright. And old and young. Whatever was alive in that room had come at their bidding -- as they themselves had come. They had the power to evoke -- like so many witches -- not only the Unknown and the Things That Were To Be but each other. And sometimes all three were the same. Now everyone attending was what the others had called into being -- they were each other's creations -- and out of the three hundred and sixty-five nights of the year this night was theirs. They had shed their other realities like outergarments before entering the room and here no one knew them. They themselves did not know. They were wordmasters -- therefore futuremasters -- and words flew in the room. Most were spoken by one of their number who stood in the light. The rest sat in the dimness, replete with and alert from the dead thing they had eaten, waiting for their thing, their nightthing, to take shape. They knew it was there but not how it looked or felt to the senses. The scene ending the # World Science Fiction Convention banquet in St. Louis wore the aura of a seance -- except that it had nothing to do with ghosts. Only the food had been dead. The people present belonged to tomorrow. They ranged from students through doctors, lawyers, educators, to scientists and -- topping all, of course -- the writers and the fans who are the dream-keepers. They had paid brief honors to their quick yesterdays and were reaching for the future where none of them had been. And now their man in the light -- Harlan Ellison -- was calling down the hovering unhuman who was feeding in the air thick with dreams. He gave it a name -- and down it came. Words flew and clashed, creating energy, friction and heat -- for tomorrow can have no name. The unhuman gobbled the words and the dreams and the night grew gravid with Things To Come. And before that huge alive unhuman unborn, tomorrow's tumultuous children grew silent. We filed out of the vast rooms, out of the dimness and the light -- and I for one had the feeling that each had taken the dream of the one and made it his and her own. This page is for the man in the light, without whom many things would not be. Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greamess? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life I Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. Every male aboard had a minority problem, a race problem -- and the same damn girl problemi T he rainbow floods were doused. The station band had left. Empty of her load of cadets, the F.S.S. Adastra floated quietly against the stars. The display of First Assignments in the station rotunda was deserted. The crowd had moved to the dome lounge, from which echoed the fluting of girls, the braying and cooing of fathers, mothers, uncles and aunts, punctuated by the self-conscious baritones of the #th Space Command class. Down below, where the Base Central offices functioned as usual, a solitary figure in dress whites leaned rigidly over the counter of Personnel. "You're absolutely certain there's no mistake?" "No, it's all in order. Lieutenant Quent." The girl who was coding his status tabs smiled. "First officer, P.B. Ethel P. Rosenkrantz, dock eight-two, departs seventeen thirty -- that's three hours from now. You have to clear Immunization first, you know." Lieutenant Quent opened his mouth, closed it, breathed audibly. He picked up the tabs. As he strode away a tubby man wearing a Gal News badge trotted up to the counter. "That lad is Admiral Quent's son. What'd he get, Goldie?" "I shouldn't tell you -- a peebee." "A what? No!" She nodded, bright-eyed. "Sweetheart, I'll name you in my will!" He trotted off. In the medical office Quent was protesting, "But I've had all my standard shots a dozen times!" The M.O. studied a data display which stated, among other things, that Quent was a Terra-norm human male, height # m., skin Cauc tan, hair Br., eyes Br., distinguishing marks. None. The data did not mention a big homely jaw and two eyebrows which tended to meet in a straight line. "What's your ship? Ah, the Rosenkrantz, Take off your blouse." "What do I need shots for?" persisted Quent. "Two fungus, one feline mutate, basic allergens," said the M.O., briskly cracking ampoules. "Feline what?" "Other arm, please. Haven't you met your fellow officers?" "I just got this rancid assignment twenty minutes ago." "Oh. Well, you'll see. Flex that arm a couple of times. It may swell a bit." "What about my fellow officers?" Quent demanded darkly. The M.O. cracked another ampoule and cocked an eye at the display. "Aren't you the son of Admiral Rathborne Whiting Quent?" "What's that got to do with my being assigned to a clobbing peebee?" "Who knows. Lieutenant? Politics are ever with us. I daresay you expected something like the Sirian, eh?" "Well, men considerably below me on the ratings did draw the Sirian"" Quent said stiffly. "Clench and unclench that fist a couple of times. No, unclench it too. Tell me, do you share your father's, ah, sentiments about the integration of the Federal Space Force?" Quent froze. "What the -- " "You've been in space a year. Lieutenant. Surely you've heard of the Pan Galactic Equality Covenant? Well, it's being implemented, starting with a pilot integration program in the peebees. Three of your future fellow officers were in here yesterday for their pan-human shots." Quent uttered a wordless sound. "You can put on your blouse now," said the M.O. He leaned back. "Life's going to be a bit IF lumpy for you if you share your father's prejudices." Quent picked up his blouse. "Is it prejudice to think that everyone should have his own -- " " 'Do you want yolir boy's life to depend on an octopus?' " recited the M.O. wryly. "Oh, well, there he went too far. I told him so." Quent wrenched his way into his dress blouse. "I'm not prejudiced. Why, some of my -- " "I see," said the M.O. "I welcome the opportunity," said Quent. He started for the door. "What?" "Your hat," said the M.O. "Oh, thanks." "By the by," the M.O. called after him, "Ga News will probably be on your trail." Q uent stopped in mid-stride and flung up his head like a startled moose. A small figure was trotting toward him down the corridor. His jaw clenched. He took off down a side corridor, doubled through a restricted zone and galloped into the rear of the freight depot. He shoved his tabs at a gaping cargoman. "My dittybox, quickly-" Box in arms, he clambered into a cargo duct, ignoring the chorus of yells. He made his way down the treads until he came to an exit in the perimeter docks. He climbed out into the spacious service area of the Adastra from which he had debarked two hours before. The inlet guard grinned. "Coming back aboard. Lieutenant?" Quent mumbled and started off around the docking ring, lugging his box. He passed the immaculate berths of the Crux, Enterprise, Sirian, passed the gleaming courier docks, plodded on into sections crowded with the umbilical tubes of freighters and small craft and criss-crossed with cables and service rigging. He stumbled and was grazed by a mobile conveyor belt whose driver yelled at him. Finally he came to an inlet It was a narrow, grimy tube. Nobody was in sight. He set down his box and started in, trying not to rub his white shoulders against the flex. The tube ended in an open lock which gave directly into a small wardroom cluttered with parcels and used drinking bulbs. Quent coughed. Nothing happened. He called out. A confused sound erupted from the shaftway opposite. It was followed by a massive rear end clad in shorts and a shaggy gray parka. The newcomer turned ponderously. Quent looked up at an ursine muzzle set in bristly jowls, a large prune of a nose. "Who you?" demanded the ursinoid in thick Galactic. "Lieutenant Quent, First Officer, reporting," said Quent. "Good," rumbled the other. He surveyed Quent from small bright eyes and scratched the hair on his belly. Quent had erred about the parka. "You know refrigerate for storage?" "Refrigerant?" "Come. Maybe you make some sense." Quent followed him back into the shaftway and down a dark ladder. Presently they came to a light above an open hatch. The ursinoid pointed to a tangle of dripping tubes. "What's it for?" Quent asked. "Make cold," growled the other. "New model. Should not slobber so, VerntT' "I mean, what's it refrigerating?" "Ants. Here, you take. Maybe better luck." He thrust a crumpled folder into Quent's hand and shouldered past him up the ladder, leaving a marked aroma of wet bear rug. The leaflet was titled: Temperature-Controlied Personnel System Mark X# Series D, Mod., Appvl. Pdg. Quent peered into the hatch. Beyond the pipes was a dim honeycomb of hexagonal cubicles, each containing a dark bulge the size of a coconut. He heard a faint. chittering sound. Quent began to examine the dialed panel beside the hatch. It did not seem to match the leaflet diagram. Somewhere above him the ladder clanked. "Futile," hissed a voice overhead. Quent looked up. A thin gray arm snaked down and plucked the folder from his grasp. Quent had a glimpse of bulging, membranous eyes set in a long skull. The head retracted and its owner clambered down. It, or he, was a lizardlike biped taller than Quent, wearing a complicated vest. "You are Quent -- are new first officer," the creature clacked. Quent could see its tongue flicker inside the beaked jaws. "I am Svensk. Welcome aboard. You will now go away while I adjust this apparatus before the captain buggers it completely." "The captain?" "Captain Imray. Hopeless with mechanisms. Do you intend to remain here chattering until these ridiculous ants decongeal?" Quent climbed back to the wardroom, where somebody was trying to sing. The performer turned out to be a short, furry individual in officer's whites with his hat on the back of his head and a bulb of greenish liquor in one brown fist. " pleut dans mon coeur comme il pleut dans la ville"' caroled the stranger. IF He broke off to pop round yellow eyes at Quent. "Ah, our new first officer, is it not? Permit me." Incisors flashed as he grabbed Quent by the shoulders and raked sharp vibrissae across Quent's cheeks. "Sylvestre Sylla, at your service." Quent exposed his own square teeth. "Quent." "Quent?" Sylla repeated. "Not Rathborne Whiting Quent, Junior?" Quent nodded, coughing. The wardroom seemed to reek of musk. "Welcome aboard, First Officer Quent. Welcome to the Ethel P. Rosenkrantz, patrol boat. Not, of course, the Sirian'" Sylla said unctuously, "but a worthy ship, vovons. I trust you are not disappointed in your first assignment. First Officer Quent?" Quent'sjaw set. "No." "Permit me to show you to your quarters. First Officer." Sylla waved Quent to the upper ladderway, which opened from the wardroom ceiling. Above the wardroom was a section of cubicles for the crew, each accessible by a flexible sphincter port. Beyond these the shaftway ended in the bridge. "Here you are. First Officer," Sylla pointed. "And your luggage, sir?" "I left it outside," said Quent. "Doubtless it is still there," replied Sylla and dived gracefully through another sphincter. Quent climbed down and exited from the tube in time to rescue his dittybox from a grapple. As he wrestled it up the shaftway he could hear Sylla promising to defeather Alouette. T he cubicle proved to be slightly smaller than his cadet quarters on the Adastra. Quent sighed, sat down on his hammock gimbal, took off his hat and ran a hand through his hair. He put his hat back on and took out his pocket recorder. The recorder had a played message tab in place. Quent flicked the rerun and held it to his ear. Ping-ping-ping, went the official channels signal. He heard a sonorous throat-clearing. "Congratulations on your Academy record. Lieutenant. Your mother would have been, um, proud. Well done. And now,, good luck on your first mission. One that will, I trust, profoundly enlighten you." The recorder pinged again and cut off. Quent's frown deepened. He shook his head slowly. Then he took a deep breath, opened his dittybox and rooted through a bundle of manuals. Selecting one, he pushed out through the sphincter and climbed up to the bridge. In the command chair the ursine Captain Imray was flipping fuel selectors and grunting into the engineroom speaker. Quent looked around the small bridge. The navigator's console and the computer station were empty. A little old man in a flowered shirt sat in the commo cubby. He glanced around and batted one baggy eye at Quent, without ceasing to whisper into his set. He had a gray goatee and yellow buckteeth. The first officer's chair was beside the shaft ladder. Quent removed a parcel from the seat, sat down and opened his manual. Captain Imray ceased grunting. Quent cleared his throat. "Shall I take over the check, sir? I gather you are go through phase twenty-six." The ursinoid's eyes widened. "Some help I get," he boomed. "Sure, sure, you take." Quent activated his console. "Gyro lateral thrust, on," he said, manipulating the auxiliary. He heard no reply from Engines. "Gyro lateral thrust, on," Quent repeated, thumbing the engine-room channel. "Morgan don't say much," remarked Captain Imray. "The engineering officer?" asked Quent. "But -- but you mean he would respond if the function were negative, sir?" "Sure, sure," said Imray. "Gyro torque amplifiers, on,' said Quent. Silence. "Primary impeller circuit, live," he continued grimly and worked on down the check. At: "Pod eject compensator -- " a brief moan came from Engines. "What?" "Morgan says don't bother him, he done all that," Imray translated. Quent opened his mouth. The main voder suddenly began barking. "Control to peebee Rosy! peebee Rosy, prepare to clear dock at this time. Repeat, peebee Rosy to station north, go! peebee Kip four-ten, repeat, four-ten. Control to peebee Kip, dock eight-two now clearing. Repeat, peebee Kip green for dock eight-two." "Morgan, you hear?" boomed Imray. "We green for go, Morgan?" A faint squeal from Engines. "But Captain, we're only at check-phase thirty," said Quent and ducked as Lieutenant Sylla hurtled out of the shaft to land in the navigation console with a rattle of claws. Sylla slapped the screens to life with one hand while punching course settings with the other. Imray and the como gnome were yanking at their webs. From below came the clang and hiss of the disengaging lock. The next instant the station gravity went off. IF As Quent pawed for his own web he heard Imray bellowing something. The auxiliaries let in and the Ethel P. Rosenkrantz leaped to station north. Q uent hauled himself down to his chair, trying to orient the wheeling constellations on the screens. "How's she look, Morgan?" Imray was asking. "Green we go out?" Another hoot came from Engines. Sylla was smacking course settings with one furry fist. "Svensk! Appleby! You set?" Imray bawled. "But Captain -- " Quent protested. Sylla kicked the fix pedal, twiddled his calibrator and dropped the fist. "GespruchV' roared Imray and slammed home the main drive. Quent's head cleared. He was crosswise in his seat. "With no web is risky, son," said Imray, shaking his jowls. "We weren't due to go for forty-five minutes!" expostulated Quent. He righted himself as acceleration faded. "The check is incomplete, sir. Control had no 'right-" "Apparently the first officer did not hear the four-ten," said Sylla silkily. "Four-ten?" "Four-ten is ship in bad trouble. must dock quick," Imray told him. "But that should be threethreedeltaexfouroneotto point with the vessel's designation." "Doubtless in the star class vessels First Officer Quent is used to," said Sylla. "Here he will find life less formal." "What was the four-ten, Pom?" called a clear sweet voice. Quent twisted. Looking up from beside his elbow was a dazzling girl-face framed in copper curls. Quent craned further. The rest of her appeared to meet the wildest demands of a man who had spent the last year on a training ship. "Huh?" he asked involuntarily. "Hi," said the apparition, waving her hand irritably in front of Quent's nose and continuing to gaze at the commo officer. "The Kip"" said the little man over his shoulder. "That's the peebee Kipsuga Chomo, sir," he waggled his goatee at Quent. "Three hundred hours with some contaminant gas. They sealed up in the bridge but Ikky had to bring 'em in by himself. Not much air in these here peebees." He turned back to his board. Quent glanced around. Three hundred hours was over two weeks. He shuddered. "But why didn't -- " "Why did not someone come to their rescue?" Sylla cut in. "The first officer forgets. Patrol boats are the ones that go to the rescue. Who comes to aid a patrol boat? Only another patrol boat -- in this case ourselves, who were sitting at Central awaiting our new first officer. Tant pis, they were only a gaggle of nonhumans -- " Imray swatted the air crossly. "Now, now, Syll." "Soup's hot," said the girl. "Ooh! My jam." She reached a slim white arm around Quent's ankles, Quent, tracking closely, saw that the parcel he had displaced had collided with the gimbals -- together with his hat -- and was exuding a rosy goo. "Tchah!" She snatched it up and departed down the shaft. Quent picked up his hat and shook it. Jam drops drifted onto his leg. Captain Imray was clambering into the shaftway. "The first officer will take the first watch, is that not correct?" Without waiting for an answer Sylla sailed past the captain and vanished. Only the commo officer remained absorbed in his inaudible dialog. Q uent collected the floating jam in his handkerchief and wedged the cloth under his seat. Then he kicked off on a tour of the cramped bridge. The screens were, he saw, inoperative under drive. He pulled up to the library computer and signaled for their course data display. Instead of the requested data the voder came on. I must go down to the seas again, for the call of the running tide Is a wild call and a clear call Quent reached for the erase. "Don't do that, sir," the commo man said. "Why not? I want some data." "Yes, sir. But that's Lieutenant Sylla's setup, sir. Very fond of water poetry, he is. Just leave it, sir. Lieutenant Svensk will get whatever you want." Quent glared at the computer, which was now reciting: D egged with dew, dappled with dew. Are the groins of the braes... He switched it off. "Perhaps you would be so good as to inform me of our course and of the parameters of our patrol sector?" he asked icily. "I am Lieutenant Quent, First Officer." "Yessir, Lieutenant." The little man's face split in a grin that sent his goatee pointing at his buck teeth. "Pomeroy here, sir. Lester Pomeroy, Ensign. Sure is good to see a fellow human aboard, sir, if you don't mind my saying so." "Not at all. Ensign," said Quent. "I guess maybe you feel a bit put out, sir," Pomeroy went on in IF a confidential tone. "Them enaitches prob'ly never even introduced themselves -- right, sir?" "Well, I haven't had time to look over the roster yet." "What roster?" Pomeroy chuckled. "Anything you want to know, sir, just ask Pomeroy. You want to know the gen? Well, there's Captain Imray, he's from Deneb way. Navigator, Lieutenant Sylla -- I don't know exactly where he's frgm. He's what they call a lutroid. Puts on terrible strong when he's wrought up. And Lieutenant Svensk, he's Science when he's set low of course, and conversely he's Guns when the need arises. His vest, see? And then there's me for Commo and Morgan for Engines -- he don't say much. Wait till you meet Morgan. And there's our combat team -- but they don't count." "Why not?" asked Quent dazedly. Pomeroy gave a nervous giggle. "They're froze, that's why. And froze they'll stay. Nobody wants to get them boys out." "But I know the one you're itching to meet. Lieutenant. Miss Mellicent Appleby, Logistical supply. Ain't she a treat? Cooks up a storm, too. But there's one thing she don't supply, I better warn you, sir." His grin faded. "She don't supply no Appleby. So far, anyhow." Pomeroy paused, waited. Quent said nothing. "Now, you ask about our patrol beat -- no, sir," The old man broke off as Quent moved to the display tank. "No use to try that, sir. Svensk has it stressed up as a psoodospace -- some crazy snake game. But it's simple. We're Sector Twelve, like a big piece of cake, see?" He gestured. "Here we are at the point. That's Base Central. First stop is right close in -- that's Strugglehome. If they're all green we go on to Davon Two. If they're not hurting we swing over to Turlavon and Ed. And if nothing comes up we dock in at Midbase. If they haven't any grief we hang around and check Route Leo -- service the beacons and so forth -- and then we hit the Chun Complex. That's a mess. When we're through there we make the long hop out to Farbase -- and if they're all quiet we start on around through Goldmine and Tunney and Sopwith and so on, back home to Central. Eighteen mail colonies, one route and two bases. Takes about a hundred and twenty days, provided nothing comes up." "What sort of thing is apt to come up, Mr. Pomeroy?" "Distress calls, wrecks, jitney duty for some royal groundhog going from here to there, wonky beacons, exploding mail, field freeze-ups, ghost signals, flying wombats -- you name it, we get it sooner or later." His poached eyes rolled mournfully. "We're the boys that do the dirty. If it's too clobby to mess with, lay it on the peebees. Take our last tour. Everything was tight till we hit the Chung Complex. They got a crust instability on a little water planet and both their big ships blowed out on the other side of the system. So we have to ferry the bleeders off -- and they won't go without their livestock. Thirtythree days hauling octopuses, that's what." Quent frowned "In a Space Force vessel?" "Ah, them en-aitches don't care," Pomeroy grimaced. Quent kicked back to his chair in silence. "Never you mind. Lieutenant," the little man commiserated and hoisted an amber bulb, his wrinkled neck working. He wiped the bulb with his shirttail. "Have some Leo Lightning, sir?" "Quent jerked upright. "Drinking on the bridge?" Pomeroy winked broadly. "Captain Imray don't care." "Mr. Pomeroy," said Quent firmly. "I appreciate your intentions -- but there will be no drinking on this bridge while I am O.C. Kindly stow that bulb." Pomeroy stared blankly. "Yes, sir," he said at last and turned to his board. The bulb remained in plain sight. Quent opened his mouth, closed it. Muscles flickered in his square, unhandsome countenance. A clamor was rising from the wardroom below. Svensk's clack, Sylla's waspish tenor mingled with the captain's boom. The officers on board were clearly not a harmonious team. Presently they subsided and the ladder clanked as they retired to rest. " Quent sighed through his teeth and picked up the jam-spattered manual. The Ethel P. Rosenkrantz, of which he was first officer, was in full star drive with twenty-three essential operational procedures, all his responsibility, unchecked. II F ive hours later the ladder clanked again and the hulk of Captain Imray heaved up to the bridge. He was followed by Lieutenant Sylla in free glide. The lutroid landed in his console with a passing flick that made Pomeroy jump for his bulb. "Twenty-twenty hours. First Officer Quent relieved by Captain Imray," said Quent formally to the log. "Sure, sure, I take her, son," chuckled Imray, settling himself. "You go look Appleby, vernt?' IF "I am going to make a preliminary inspection of the ship, Captain." "Good." Imray beamed. "See how conscience the humans, Syll? From them example you could learn." ""Sans doute"' snarled Sylla. "It is also possible that our first officer feels a need to familiarize himself with the humble patrol boat. It perhaps did not engage his attention during his training as a future star-class admiral." "Now, Syll," growled Imray. "Come on Lieutenant, sir," Pomeroy pulled Quent's sleeve. Quent's right fist unballed slowly. He followed the little man into the shaft.  In the wardroom Pomeroy helped himself from a net of wrapped sandwiches and settled down with his bulb at the gimbaled table. Quent surveyed the room. It was a cylinder with walls composed of lockers in which, according to his manual, were stored suits, tools, repair and grappling rigs, fuse panels and oxy supply. These could be checked later. On his left was the lock and a slave screen, now blank. Across from the lock was a pantry cubby and the shaftway down which he had first followed Imray. Quent hustled to the shaft and started aft. The next section contained the main food stores, a small galley-cum-infirmary, waste intakes and the fore quadrant of the regeneration system which ran through several sections of the hull. He glanced through its hatch panel at a lighted mass of culture trays and continued along the dim shaft, vaguely aware that his feet were encountering a filmy substance. He was now passing more sphincters which gave access to cubicles for transient passengers and package mail. "Must you trample on my laundry, Lieutenant?" inquired a soprano voice in his ear. Miss Appleby's head protruded from a port behind him. Her gaze was directed toward his leg, which seemed to be wrapped in turquoise silk. "Oh. Sorry." He disentangled, trying not to kick. "I'm doing a tour of the ship." "Well, do your touring some place else, please," she said. "These are my quarters." "All these?" He gestured. "When we haven't any transients, I don't see why not." He parted a port at random and looked in. The cubicle was draped in fluffy stuff and the hull wall sparkled with holograms. Quent had the impression of an offensively healthy character in ceaseless action. He moved to another cubicle -- it proved to be full of bundles tied with bows. Not mail. He tried another. Miss Appleby's head revolving as she watched him. This one held what appeared to be a private kitchen and it smelled of fudge. "These wires," he called back to the head. "Are they authorized?" "Captain Imray never objected. Please get on with it. I'm trying to take a bath." Quent peered. There were indeed rainbow droplets in the curls around her delicate ears. He licked his lips. "Yes, ma'am," he said absently, drifting toward her. "By the way. Lieutenant," said the charming head. "Did you notice those holos in there?" "Very nice." He drifted faster, smiling. "Didn't you recognize them?" "Should I?" he beamed. "Yes, I think so," she said calmly. "That's my fiance. Bob Coatesworth. Vice Admiral Robert B. Coatesworth. Think it through. Lieutenant." With a soft sucking sound her head fanished back into the cubicle. Quent halted. He pounded his fist, slowly against his head -- several times. Then he resumed his journey aft. B eyond the bulkhead he found emergency pod inlets, which would require a careful check, and the refrigerant storage quadrant he had met before. He peered through the view panel. The drip seemed to have stopped. The regeneration chamber ended here, giving room for the landleg stabilizers and the Rosenkrantzs small-weapons turrets, all of which he would have to go over in detail later on. This ship was old. The manual referred to it as a heavy-duty, primitive type, equipped for planetside landings. Was the system still operational? Pomeroy had told him that their mail exchange was normally conducted from orbit. Through the next bulkhead the shaft opened into the echoing gloom of the main cargo hold. This felf'dank, perhaps in memory of the octopi. He made his way along the hull past" the airsled and the cradles filled with mail pods. He gave the main cargo hatch a brief check and turned to the engineroom hatchway. The hatch refused to open. "First officer to Engineer," he said to the speaker. "Open up." The engineroom was silent. "The first officer speaking," he said more loudly. "Open the hatch." The speaker gave a squeal that sounded like, "Blow." "What's wrong?" Quent shouted. "Open up." "Blo-oo-oo-ow," moaned the speaker. "I'm inspecting the ship. Engineer, undog this hatch." IF No reply. Quent pounded on the grille. "First Officer Quent," said Sylla's voice from the hold voder. "The captain requests that you cease annoying the engineer." "Fm not annoying the engineer. He won't let me in." "Better you try some other time, son," said Imray's rumble. "But -- yes, sir," Quent gritted. He pounded his head again, less gently. Then he started back through the hold, pursued by the dim sound of bagpipes from Engines. The shaft was now empty of Miss Appleby and her laundry. Pomeroy was still in the wardroom, nursing his bulb. "Morgan throw you out, sir? Them en-aitches got no respect." Quent silently helped himself to sandwiches and a tea bulb and rummaged through the casette locker until he recognized some Sector Twelve names -- Strugglehome, Turlavon, the Chung Complex. He carried the lot to his cubicle, carefully stowed away his stained dress whites and slung his hammock cocoon. The sandwiches turned out to be delicious. Before he had heard through the data on Turlavon his eyelids closed. "Wake up, Lieutenant." Quent came to half out of his cubicle and with Pomeroy hanging onto his arm. "You was having nightmares, sir." The little man's left eye seemed to be swelling shut. Across the way Svensk's bony head poked out. Imray and Sylla were peering down from the bridge. They were all grinning. "Uh -- sorry." Quent disengaged himself and pulled back into his cabin. "Orbit in an hour, sir," Pomeroy called. "Strugglehome." Midbase Quent acquired considerable enlightenment. At Strugglehome he asked Sylla to show him the mail-pod exchange routine. Here he learned that the slow man on a pod grapple can get a set of mashed fingers. The lutroid apologized effusively. By Davon Two Quent's hand was in shape to help Svensk prepare a shipment from the culture chamber. The big saurian became animated in the fetid warmth and treated Quent to a harangue on phytogentics. Quent finally told him to go away. He then learned, too late that the chamber hatch controls were defective on the inside. Three hours later, when Miss Appleby decided to investigate the pounding noises, Quent was purple from breathing C# and she had to help him out. "Wha's girl doing on this thing anyway?" he gasped. "Oh, a lot of us log officers take en-aitch tours," she dimpled. "It's so restful." Quent shuddered and clamped his big jaw. About Appleby herself he learned that she spent all her time in her cubicles fixing up her trousseau and her hoard of stuff for her future home. The amount of loot she had astonished him. But she seemed to have been equally effective in loading up the Rosenkrantz' T.E. -- the ship bulged with stores. She also emerged on the dot with excellent meals, which seemed to be Captain Imray's chief interest in life. During the hop to Turlavon Quent made two more efforts to get into Morgan's domain and was rebuffed. He settled down to learning the ship bolt by bolt, manual in hand. Turlavon passed without incident. At Ed they had to wait for the planet station crew to finish harvesting. For three whole watches Quent struggled with unstable orbits, until he learned that Ed had enormous masscons and that someone had disassembled the ship's grav-mass analyzer. He bore it all stoically but his jaw was corded with knots which seemed to have been there before. He had, after all, been an admiral's son for a long time. A t midbase they lay into the main cargo umbilical to offload a flywheel for the station gyros. The delay at Ed had thrown them out of synch with Base time and the station dark-period caught them early. Quent used the chance to check over the ship's exterior valve seals. He had worked back to the main lock when his hand light picked up a small gray creature hitting past the aft fins. It was about a meter tall and roughly humanoid. Quent called out. The figure accelerated and vanished among the dock belts. Quent frowned after it and went into the wardroom. Captain Imray was grunting over his greenbook tabs. The others were on the bridge, listening to the station newscast. "Morgan," said Quent. "Would he be about so high -- and gray?" Imray leaned back and rubbed his prune nose. "That's him. He go now listen is them gyros all right. Like a mother for gyros is Morgan." "He must have left by the engineroom crash hatch." Quent pointed to the panel. "Why isn't the telltale light on?" "The first officer's appetite for the minutest details of our humble craft is truly admirable," yawned Sylla, lounging in. "If it were not so tedious." "Mr. Sylla, if that hatch lock -- " "Sure, sure," said Imray. "But Morgan never leave nothing open. Not Morgan. He like to come, go, private, vernt?' "Do you mean that you've alIF lowed Morgan to kill the telltale circuits. Captain?" "The mammalian insecurity syndrome," remarked Svensk, unfolding himself out of the shaft. He was playing with a small wire toroid which changed shape disturbingly. "The leaky-womb phobia," he creaked. "Captain Imray," said Quent, "by regulation it's my responsibility to oversee the engineroom. With your permission, this would seem to be the time for me to take a look." Imray squinted at him. "Morgan very sensitive being, son, very sensitive." He wiggled his big black-nailed hands to show Morgan's sensitivity. Quent nodded and started aft. "Nothing touch, son," Imray' called after him. "Morgan -- " The engineroom personnel hatch was still dogged. Quent went to the hull and unbolted a pod cradle, revealing a duct panel designed to service the life-support conduit to Engines. He unscrewed the panel and tugged. It did not move. He displaced another cradle and found a magnetic contraption with no discoverable leads. He summoned Svensk, who arrived unliurriedly and gave it a brief inspection. "Can you open this?" "Yes," said Svensk, and started back through the hold. "Mr. Svensk, come back, I want you to open this lock." "The semantic confusions you homotherms get into are beyond belief," croaked Svensk. "Are you not aware that Morgan desires this to remain closed?" "As first officer of this ship I am ordering you to open it." "When I said I could open it -- I meant with the proper tools." "What are the prcper tools?" "Linear force must be applied in the presence of a certain set of alternating pressures in a gaseous medium." He arched his long neck. Quent scowled at him. "Pressures? Mr. Svensk, are you deliberately -- " Quent suddenly stabbed his wrench at the saurian. "It's a sonic lock, isn't it? Set for... Mr. Pomeroy, bring that recorder in the wardroom locker back here. I want you to imitate Morgan's voice." Reluctantly Pomeroy tooted while Quent tugged. The panel slid open. Quent found himself looking into a pitch-dark tangle instead of the shining banks and alleyways of a normal engineroom. "What in the name of space -- " Quent reached into the filaments. "Sir, I wouldn't do that," warned Pomeroy. "Fascinating!" Svensk's skullhead came over Quent's shoulder. "What is that mess?" "I fancy it is part of the sensor system by which Morgan maintains contact with the stress structure of his mechanisms. I had no idea he had achieved anything so extensive." "Just close it up, please, sir," Pomeroy begged. Quent stared into the web. "I'm going in," he gritted. From behind them came a piercing wail. Quent spun and a gray wraith flew at his face, spitting sparks. He reeled back, his arms over his eyes. The hatch clashed shut. The lights went out. The hold voder broke into a skirling, howling din. Quent heard Svensk pounding away and stumbled after the sound. The wardroom voder began to roar. Quent found his hand light and rushed to the bridge. The deck was a bedlam of noise and every console was flashing. Svensk and Sylla were yanking out computer cables. Quent slammed down the circuit breakers. There was no effect. The hideous din yammered on. "Nothing to do but get out till he calms down," Pomeroy yelled in Quent's ear. "Thank the Lord we aren't in space." T he others had left. As Quent went out Miss Appleby flew past in a whirl of tyrquoise silk. "You idiot," she raged. "Look at what you've done." Imray stood glowering on the deck. Svensk towered at full height, his eyes veiled in membranes. Sylla paced with ears laid back and there was a decided pungency in the air. Quent slammed the lock but the uproar reverberating through the Rosenkrantz was clearly audible. "He's got an override on those circuits," Quent fumed. "I'm going in there and cut off his air." "Asinine," grated Svensk. "We are in air." "His water, then." "To do so would render the refrigerant exchange inoperative." "There must be something -- what does he eat?" "Special concentrates," snapped Miss Appleby. "I stocked him with a year's supply at Central." Quent kicked a freight belt. "In other words, Morgan runs this ship." Imray shrugged angrily. "He run it -- we run it -- we go," he growled. "When Space Force Monitor hears about this it'll be Morgan who goes," Quent told them darkly. Sylla spat. "The first officer has forgotten the Kipsuga Chomo. Or perhaps he recalls the four-ten which inconvenienced him?" "What?" Quent turned on the lutroid. "I have forgotten nothing, Mr. Sylla. What has the Kip to do IF with Morgan?" Imray shook his jowls. "No, Syll,no!" Svensk coughed. "Look, sir," said Pomeroy. "Morgan's fixing to make a night of it. He don't quit. How's for you and me to go by the office and see about a place to sleep?" Miss Appleby sniffed. "That would be useful." The din continued unabated. Quent went off with Pomeroy to the Midbase station offices, where they found one billet for a female only. Midbase was bulging with colonists awaiting transfer on Route Leo. In the end the male complement of the Rosenkrantz settled down to doze uncomfortably on a textile shipment and to endure the jibes of the cargomen when the lights came on. Horrible sounds came from the Rosenkrantz all morning. After noon mess Morgan appeared to tire. The officers went warily back on board. "Have to give him time to cool down," said Pomeroy. As if on cue the voders erupted briefly. A few minutes later they did it again. The others went to their hammocks, leaving Quent in the wardroom to brood. He was still there when Miss Appleby came in. "I'm afraid I was rude to you. Lieutenant Quent." He looked up dully. She seemed to be all aglow. "Actually what you did was ever so lucky for me." She smiled. She set down her parcel and served herself tea and a cookie. Instead of taking them to her quarters she came back and sat down at the table with an excited wiggle. Quent's eyes opened. He sat up. "That Mrs. Lee," she confided happily. "You know, the colonist? She's got twenty meters of Gregarin passamenterie. It took me all day to talk her into swapping me one meter for a petite suit liner and a case of bottlehots. I'd never have got it if we hadn't been held up, thanks to you." She glowed at him over the tea. "Well, I" "It'll make the vest of all time for Bob," she sighed. "Bob loves vests -- off duty, of course." Quent put his head back on his fists. He had been raised with two older sisters. "That's -- great." "You're depressed," she observed. Quent heaved a sigh and shook his head. Against his better judgment he found himself looking into her large green eyes. "Miss Appleby," he blurted. "When I came on this ship I was completely unprejudiced against nonhumans. Completely. I welcomed the chance to show my father that other beings were just as fit to serve in space as -- " His voice faded. "Now I just don't know. This mess -- that insufferable Morgan -- " "Yours is a strange reaction. Lieutenant. We girls always say it's much safer on a ship with one of Morgan's people. They'll do anything for the ship. Like the Kip, you know." "What do you know about the KipsugaT' "Why, just that their engineer saved them. He got them to Central. Ikka somebody. Pom says he died." Quent frowned. "Funny they didn't tell me about him." "Probably your father is the reason they keep things from you -- don't you think. Lieutenant?" She stood up, hugging her parcel. "They're fine people," she told him earnestly. "You just have to understand their ways. That's what Bob says. He says a lot of Space Force officers are prejudiced without knowing it." Quent looked up at her. She radiated Galactic amity. "Could be," he said slowly. "Miss Appleby, maybe I haven't "Try a little harder," she encouraged him. "That Mrs. Lee said a newsman was asking about you." "It is time to eat." The harsh croak cut her off. Svensk unfolded himself from the ladder. "Right away." Appleby vanished. Svensk turned a suspicious eye on Quent. "Serpent," jeered Sylla, bouncing down, "You reptiles did not understand that time existed until we provided you with thermal vests. At home we have still the taboo against eating lizards because of their unfortunate tendency to putrefy while torpid." "Activity fails to correlate with intelligence," Svensk clacked haughtily. "On the other hand," Sylla licked his vibrissae. "Our primates are regarded as quite palatable. Braised, naturally, with just a rien of celery. Amusing, is it not. First Officer Quent?" Quent exhaled carefully. "If you feel so, Mr. Sylla." He stretched his mouth sideways in a lifelike smile. "Excuse me, I believe I'll lie down." The silence behind him lasted so long he almost wondered about it. Ill T he next fortnight was spent laboriously servicing beacons along Route Leo. The beacons were elderly M#s, which Quent had cursed while navigating from the Adastra. Now he found their trouble lay in the bulky shielding IF which attracted dust, thus building up electrostatic imbalances that distorted the beacon's spectrum and eventually its orbit. They had to be periodically cleaned and neutralized. The job required long hours and close cooperation among crewmen. By the fourth and last beacon Quent's jaw had developed a permanent ache. "Have you not yet finished. First Officer?" Quent was clinging awkwardly to the far end of the slippery kinetic bleeder. Above him Sylla wriggled through the beacon grids with the agility of his otter forbears, warping his vacuum line expertly as he went. "It is clear that the Academy does not contemplate its graduates shall endure the indignity of labor," Sylla jibed. "I admit Fm inexperienced in this and not as fast as you are," Quent said mildly. "Mr. Svensk. Where are you casting that sweep line?" "As per your request, down," said Svensk from the far side. "Although it seems senseless." "I meant down here -- toward me," Quent took a deep breath. "Not toward the center of gravity of the beacon-ship system. A loose way of speaking. I'm afraid." "Lieutenant Quent, sir," said Pomeroy's voice from the ship. "If you wouldn't mind sir, could you turn your volume down a bit? There seems to be some sort of grinding sound in your speaker and the Greenhill signal is awful weak, sir." Greenhill, a colony ship out of Midbase, was running a check on the beacon calibrations as it went by. Quent swore and snapped off his helmet speaker. A moment later he felt a jerk on his lines and found himself revolving in space two meters from the end of the bleeder. His line had no tension. When he stopped his tumble he saw that Svensk had fouled him with the sweep and was departing over the limb of the beacon. Sylla was nowhere in sight. "Do you want your life to depend on an octopus?" Quent muttered under his breath. He reached for the speaker switch, then paused. His orbit was decaying. He straightened out and began to breathe measuredly. The others had gone inboard and unsuited when Quent finally finished clearing the bleeder shaft. In the wardroom he stumbled into Miss Appleby taking a server of food to Imray's cubicle. "I want you to know I'm trying," he told her wearily. "That's the spirit. Lieutenant." She would make a super admiral's wife, Quent realized. The Greenhill confirmed the beacon calibrations and the Rosenkrantz headed out to the Chung Complex. When she came out of drive her screens lit up in glory. The Chung was a cluster of colored suns, warm and inviting after the bleakness of Route Leo. "Don't you believe it, sir." Pomeroy broke the thread of his crochet work against his stained frontals. "I dread this place, I do." His eyes rolled as he reached for his bulb. "All en-aitches here. Under water, too, most of 'em, the slimy things. Even Mr. Sylla hates them." Despite Pomeroy's forebodings the first calls passed off with only routine problems of mail and message exchange. The little man continued to follow Quent about, mumbling gloomity. He was also dosing himself with increasing quantities of Leo Lightning whenever he could sneak off the bridge. "Let Pomeroy tell you, sir," he grumbled in the night watches, "They're devils down there. We shouldn't have any dealings with things like them. Pomeroy knows. Pomeroy's seen sights no Humans had ought to bear. Worms. Worms is the least of it." His goatee bobbed over his scrawny adam's apple. "Worms and worse." The Chung orbits continued without troubles other than those provided by Svensk and Sylla -- and even these two appeared to be letting up. Quent's only view of the "worms and worse" was on the ship's screens. Most of the alien commo officers were aquatic. A few did appear wormlike and two had tentacles. There was one truly repellent squid affair with unidentifiable organs floating around its eye stalks. There was also a rather genial dolphinoid to whom Pomeroy was vitriolic. They were the ones who had required transport for the octopi. "I'm a broadminded man, sir," Pomeroy told Quent that night. "Tolerant, Pomeroy is. I put up with 'em." He hiccuped. "No choice. Pomeroy's sunk low. I don't deny it. But them things down there -- " He shuddered and hitched closer confidentially. "They think they're as good as humans, sir. Just as good as you, or better. What'll happen when them things decides they wants to come in the Force, sir? Expect a human to take orders from a worm?" His bloodshot eyes bored anxiously into Quent's. "Mr. Pomeroy. In case you are under the impression that I share my father's views on nonhumans in the Space Force, you are mistaken." "You're a tolerant man, sir. But a person can't help wondering -- " "Kindly wonder to yourself in future, Mr. Pomeroy," Quent said coldly. "For your informaIF tion, I am fully in favor of the integration program. If a being is a competent spacer, I don't see that his personal appearance enters." Pomeroy closed his mouth and turned back to his board in offended silence. Presently he paid a prolonged visit to the wardroom and returned, wiping his mouth.' For several watches he spoke only when Quent addressed him. A t the last Chung stop they picked up a short-range freight shuttle whose jockey needed a lift to Farbase. The jockey was a smaller version of Svensk. They got his shuttle stowed without mishap and the Rosenkrantz went into drive for the long run out to Farbase. Quent's eyebrows began to unknot. The run was made in comparative peace, for Quent. Svensk and the freighter pilot bankrupted each other at some exotic topological game, while Sylla occupied himself with trying to key a poetry-scanning function into the computer. Imray grew increasingly taciturn and spent long hours in his cubicle. Sometimes Quent would hear him in rumbling argument with one of the others. Quent devoted himself to a discreet inspection of the ship's wiring and managed not to upset Morgan. Things seemed to be settling down. This impression strengthened when they got to Farbase. They exchanged the mail and off-loaded the freight shuttle with dispatch. Pomeroy actually changed his shirt. He and the others set off to call on another peebee, the Jasper Banks, which was there en route to a long distance job. Miss Appleby went after the depot officer who had promised her a set of Chung pearl glasses for herself and a case of fish-eggs for the mess. The small, bleak station offered Quent no diversion. He decided to go out and check over the exterior antennae. He was suiting up when he heard the others coming back on board. He climbed to the bridge to find them preparing to take off. "Call Appleby," Imray grunted curtly. "We go now." The next leg was to the sector rim colonies of Goldmine, Tunney and Sopwith. They ship lifted off with scarcely another word exchanged by its officers. And as soon as they were in drive Imray left the bridge. The short run to Goldmine was made in thickening silence. Imray stayed in his cubicle. The others seemed on edge. Only Pomeroy had anything to say -- he kept pestering Appleby for reports on Imray's health. "He says his heart bothers him but he won't let me use the medical analyzer," she informed them. "His appetite's good, though." "He's due to retire soon, sir." Pomeroy shook his head. Imray did not appear on the bridge at Goldmine. When they were on course for Tunney he called Quent to his cabin. "Is no good," he said hoarsely as soon as Quent's head came through the sphincter. The ursinoid's muzzle looked haggard and his fur was staring. "You take over, son." He gestured feebly, dislodging an empty server. "Sir, I think you should let Miss Appleby bring the medikit." Imray groaned. "Medicals can nothing do for old age. Little pills I try. No good." "We'll turn back to Farbase hospital." "What they do? Torture me only. I know. With my people -- goes quick. You captain. I tell Morgan mind you." "You're ordering me to take over as acting captain, sir?" Imray nodded, his little eyes roving feverishly. "But -- " "No but. You captain." Imray's eyes closed and his breathing became noisy. Quent studied him, scowling. "Yes, sir," he said slowly. "I'll have Pomeroy patch you into the record log." One of Imray's eyes glinted briefly and closed again. Quent withdrew into the shaft of the Rosenkrantz. His first command. All the knots which had been smoothing from his face came back, tighter than before. To his surprise the others accepted the situation without comment, beyond Sylla's sarcastic use of his new title. Morgan, too, proved as good as Imray's word. He continued silent but during the maneuvers at Tunney the energies were flawless. Quent's frown deepened. He took to roaming the ship at odd hours, sleeping little and poorly. They were now at the farthest leg of their patrol, running along the sector rim to Sopwith. On their starboard the Galaxy was unpatrolled and largely unknown. Quent spent hours at the scanners. He had seen wild space before from the bridge of the mighty and virtually invulnerable Adastra. From a peebee with four srhall rockets and only meteor shielding it looked decidedly wilder. Quent dreamed of nucleonic storms and got up to check over the sensors again. Crawling back into the cocoon, he heard: Toujours fentends la mer qui fait du bruit, Triste comme Foiseau seule... IF the cocoon flaps over his ears to shut out the mechanical drone from the bridge. Sylla was making the computer translate poetry into his native Ter-French. Presently the droning was replaced by incomprehensible wrangling. Quent sighed and jackknifed out of his cocoon. It was nearly his shift and they would be coming into Sopwith soon. In the shaft he found Pomeroy backing out of Imray's cubicle, bulb in hand. "How is he, Mr. Pomeroy?" The little man wagged his head, bleary eyed, but said nothing. In the wardroom Miss Appleby was setting out fresh smoked ham she had wangled at Tunney. "Just coffee, thank you," Quent told her. She smiled sympathetically at the standing furrow in his brow and vanished back to her storerooms. Quent took his coffee up to the bridge, relieving Svensk and Sylla, and settled wearily to hear a data tape. Pomeroy straggled into his cubby and began to doze. In the wardroom the other two continued to argue fitfully. Suddenly Pomeroy sat up. "Sopwith, sir. Seems to be a bit of trouble." "What type of trouble, Mr. Pomeroy?" "Too early to tell yet, sir. Mostly noise." Sopwith was a nonhuman affiliated planet whose native name was Szolphuildhe. The native race was described as small, timid, pinkish in color, bipedal and probably bisexual, with a fibersand-ceramics technology. It was human-habitable but no humans lived there. "Sounds like they been attacked by a band of marauding monsters," Pomeroy reported presently. "Says they came in a skyboat -- wait a minute, sir." He squinted, listening. "About them monsters, sir. Appears like they're humans." "Humans?" "That's how the kinds describe 'em, sir. Like us." "What are they doing to the Sopwithians?" "Seems they're eating 'em, sir." "Eating them, Mr. Pomeroy?" Pomeroy nodded. Quent leaned over the shaft and called Svensk. The big saurian head appeared. Quent asked, "What human spacers could have landed here and attacked the natives or -- ah -- exploited them as food?" Svensk's raised his eye membranes reflectively. "Possibly you refer to Drakes?" "What are Drakes?" "The Drakes, as they call themselves, are a band of humans, strength unknown, base unknown. possessing not less than five "One of our little sector probspaceships, who maintain themlems." Sylla grinned. He bounded selves by sporadic raids upon to his console and began to polish shipping and colonies," Svensk his claws. "Quite beneath the nocreaked. "Until recently reported tice of the Academy." only in Sector Ten, they -- "' "Navigator, a sensor orbit. IF please. Mr. Svensk, let's pick up the location of that vessel as soon as possible. Mr. Pomeroy, ask them where that sky-boat is, how big it is, how many attackers and what weapons." The Sopwith commo officer believed that the ship had come down somewhere northeast of the port city. It was bigger and brighter than the sun, carrying at least five hands of monsters. They spouted burning flames which made no noise. "That's thirty of 'em," said Pomeroy. "As to their weapons. Drakes would have lasers, flamethrowers, grenades and maybe a rocket-launcher or two, groundside. Them kinks don't know ships or weapons, sir. Flinging stones is about it, with them." They still had not located the alien ship when the Sopwith city area went into night... The Sopwith commo officer on the ground was growing balky. "He says the monsters are coming in again," Pomeroy reported. "Listen." The voder gabbled wildly, gave out a string of shrieks and cut off. "That's it, sir. He's taken off. Well, there'll be no business here. We'd better log up the report and get on." M r. svensk, what's that field like?" asked Quent thoughtfully. The lizard was absorbed in his sensor adjustments. "Mr. Svensk. Is that field usable?" Svensk reared up. "Very primitive." "Navigator," Quent said icily. "Landing trajectory to field, please." Three pairs of eyes rounded on him. "Landing?" Sylla licked his chops. "The acting captain is perhaps unaware that patrol boats do not -- " "I've inspected our system, Mr. Sylla. It's fully operational. In case you're concerned, my training has included the landing of comparable craft." "But sir," protested Pomeroy, "What about Morgan? He don't like going planetside, sir." Quent glanced at the voders and cleared his throat. "Mr. Morgan, there is an emergency on this planet and we must land. I count on your cooperation. Mr. Sylla, is that course ready?" "Set," snapped Sylla through his teeth. Quent engaged the auxiliaries and started to code in the autopilot. As he touched it the familiar din cut loose from the voder. "Mr. Morgan." Quent rapped the speaker. "Stop that racket. We must land, do you understand? I'm taking us down!" To the din was added a crackling sputter and the lights jumped. Svensk dived for his computer leads. "Stop that, Morgan. Stop it. I'm going to land or I'll crash the ship. Hear that -- you'll crash us." "In the name of the Path," Imray came from the shaft. "What?" "It's our duty to land, sir," Quent said. "Emergency on the planet." Imray burst onto the bridge, paws over his ears. He stared at Quent. "I'm committing us." Quent slammed the manual override. Imray grabbed up his speaker. "Morgan -- Morgan, boy, it's me." Imray's voice sank to a huge croon. "Be good boy, Morgan -- down we must go. I swear you, for little minute only -- ship it will not hurt. Morgan! You hear, Morgan? Morgan boy, listen Imray -- ten meters superconductors I get you. Beautiful." The uproar dwindled to a mewling in Imray's speaker. "You let us go down nice, Morgan, vernt?" Silence. Imray clapped his fist to his chest and his head slumped. "Is too much, son," he wheezed and retreated down the shaft. "Counting to autopilot," said Sylla. Quent coded feverishly as deceleration grabbed them. On the screens the arid, undistinguished planet whirled closer. The autopilot took hold unceremoniously and spiraled them in, shaken but right side up. When the roil cleared they looked across a moonlit field to a cluster of sheds around the antennae rig. There were no lights. IF "They've all sloped off, sir," said Pomeroy. "Nothing we can do here till morning." "Mr. Pomeroy, you speak the native language," said Quent. "I will meet you at the cargo lock. Have the sled ready." "But sir -- " "Mr. Svensk, am I correct that we need no special masks or suiting on this planet?" Svensk gave a sighing exhalation. "No need," he croaked. They followed Quent in silence while he broke out two field kits and two ballistic hand lasers. At the cargo lock he opened both ports and ordered Pomeroy into the sled. "Lieutenant Sylla, you will take over the ship. One of you will be on the bridge at all times. If we're not back by sunrise, make what investigation you can without endangering the ship. If you can't help us without hazard to the ship, lift off at once and signal the facts to Farbase. Understood?" Sylla's eyes were popping. "Understood, Acting Captain!" He sketched a salute, Svensk watched in silence, his bony head folded to his shoulders in the gravity. Quent launched the sled out into the moonlight. The country below was flat scrubland gashed by a few dark arroyos, now dry. The city was a huddle of hive-like buildings with a central plaza. Quent hovered by a torch-lit structure, a shrine. Nothing moved. "No damage visible so far. We'll go down and talk to the chief." "Be careful, sir." Pomeroy warned uneasily. In the plaza they pounded and shouted at the door of the largest hive-house, k was finally opened by a small squat Sopwithian entirely draped in a softly gleaming robe. "Tell him we're friends. Where's the chief?" The doorkeeper scuttled off on his knuckles, robes jingling. The inside of the adobe hive was a labyrinth of basket-work passages, every surface bossed with bits of metal and colored tassels. The native returned, beckoning, and they scrambled up a wicker corridor to a chamber where an even broader Sopwithian in a shinier robe sat impassive in a lanterned alcove. The ceiling was so low even Pomeroy had to squat. He gurgled at the chief, who replied briefly, now and then flapping his long robed forelimbs with a sharp jangle. The raiders, Pomeroy reported, had burned several farms northeast of town and carried off the families. Herdsmen had spied them roasting and eating the captives beside their ship. "All right," said Quent. He ducked his head to the chief and they scrambled out to their sled. H e took off in a howling rush northeast. Beyond the town the pasture scrub stretched barren to a line of mesa, all brightly lit by the big moon. Here and there were small beehive farms set in irrigated gardens. "Where are those burned farms?" Quent peered. "Where's that ship?" "Take care, sir," Pomeroy pleaded. "Them Drakes'll come on us like devils -- " Quent began to fly a low search pattern. As he circled a farm heads popped out. "They're scared to death, sir. Think we're Drakes. Pitiful." "Frightened." Quent frowned around the moonlit horizon. "Ah, what's that?" Pomeroy writhed nervously. "That's a burnt one, all right. No need to look farther." Quent circled the blackened shell. Suddenly he skidded the sled into the farmyard and jumped out, kicking ashes. In a moment he was back and flung the sled airborne. He seized the speaker. "Quent to Rosenkrantz. I've found that ship." The speaker crackled. Quent fended off Pomeroy's arm, deftly appropriating the little man's laser. "Do you read, Rosenkrantz? "The ship is where. Acting Captain?" asked Sylla's voice. "About fifty kiloms northeast of field, in a canyon," Quent told . him. "There is also a raiding party in sight, headed this way. They are armed. They have sighted me. Now hear this: You will signal Farbase at once and prepare to lift ship. I'm going after these raiders. Repeat, signal Farbase and secure ship. I am now being fired on. Out." Knocking Pomeroy into the corner, Quent yanked out the speaker leads and slammed the sled at top speed back toward the field. "Sir -- Lieutenant Quent, sir, don't -- " Quent ignored him. Presently he cut power and glided around the end of the field at bush level. They whispered out to the ship, dodged behind a landleg and came upon Svensk and Sylla in the open port. Quent vaulted out, weapon in hand. "Have you signaled as ordered, Mr. Sylla?" The lutroid shrugged. "But what was one to report. Acting Captain?" "Precisely," snapped Quent and started for the bridge with both lasers in his belt. They followed. Imray hulked in the command chair. He eyed Quent in silence, arms folded over his massive chest. "Feeling better, sir?" Quent snarled. He wheeled and thrust his jaw into Sylla's muzzle. "I'll tell IF you why you failed to signal Far base. And why you two were hanging out in the open lock when I ordered you to secure ship. Because you know damn well there are no raiders here." He had his back against the screens now and a laser drawn. "No ship! No Drakes. It's all one big farce and all of you are in it. You, you clown Pomeroy -- you. Captain Imray! What are you trying to hide? Smuggling? Extortion? Or do I have to pound it out of you?" He heard a rustle, saw Svensk's hand at his vest controls. "No, no, Svenka," Imray growled. "Battles we don't need." He shook his head heavily. I told you -- Drake business no good." "Agh, your Drakes, the whole thing stank from the start. Let me tell you something, gentlemen." Ouent shook the laser at Sylla, "You jeer about my training but there's a thing you don't know about Academy life. In the years I've been a cadet I've been hazed and hoaxed and put on by experts. Experts." His voice rose. "Caristo, what I've put up with. And you, gentlemen, are a clobbing bunch of amateurs. Tri-di gigs," He snorted, glaring contemptuously at them. No one spoke. "You didn't think I caught on when you handed me the ship? Cooking up some way to gash my record. Here in Sopwith -- I was supposed to pass it up, wasn't I? Oh, yes. And you -- " He stabbed the laser at Pomeroy -- "You were going to bugger the log so you could show I refused to aid aliens against humans, right? Then bring charges? But why? I'll be rotated out soon enough -- why did you have to ruin me, too?" He scowled. "My father. Blackmail. You've got something going. I'm going to take this ship apart right here on the ground. It's on record that you're unfit for duty. Captain. You didn't think of that when you got so clobbing elaborate!" They gaped at him. Sylla's pupils swelled, contracted. "I tell you, smart boy," Imray grunted. He scratched his chest. "Son, you mistake -- " A shrill mew from Engines split the air. 'Imray jerked around. He yanked at his webs. "I got you, boy." "Hold it," shouted Quent. "Don't try -- " their consoles. Svensk was vanishing down the shaft. "I said hold it." Quent grabbed the override lever. "You're staying right here." "Sit, son, sit," Imray rumbled. "Is danger, I swear by the Path. If don't go up, lose ship." "That's straight, sir. We'll be killed if you don't let us up." Sylla was coding frantically, his crest fur ridged. The cargo lock clanged. "If this is another -- " Quent rasped. He released the lever and began to web up one-handedly, laser ready. Imray's hand smacked down and several invisible mountains fell on them as the Rosenkrantz careened off-planet to full drive. "Back side moon, Syll," Imray wheezed. "All right. What goes?" "Drakes," said Pomeroy. "You trying to go on with this?" Svensk was scrambling out of the shaft, headed for his console. He brushed against Quent's laser. On the screens the moon was ballooning up. They rushed across the terminator into darkness. "Drakes is real, son," Imray told him. "Catch ship on dirt -- we finish. Is maybe judgment on us. Boys, they smell us?" "I rather think they may not." Svensk's clack seemed to have been replaced by a cultivated Gal Fed accent. "Morgan sensed them just below the horizon and our emissions should have decayed by the time they get around." Frowning, Quent watched Imray braking to stability over the dark craters of the moon whose lighted side has guided his ground search. "They're coming around," said Pomeroy. "Listen." A confused cawing filled the bridge. Quent made out the word kavrot in coarse Galactic. A kavrot was a repulsive small flying reptile that infested dirty freighters. "Talking about us," Pomeroy grinned. His goatee no longer waggled. "Kavrots, that's us. Doesn't sound like they know we're here, though." He cut the voder. "Braking emissions," said Svensk. "It appears they're going down." Quent pushed up and moved in behind the lizard, laser in hand. Svensk did not look up. "If this is another gig -- " He studied the displays. Nobody paid attention. 'Captain?' Syria's fist was up. IV krantz began to glide silently on her docking impellors down toward the sunlit peaks at the moon's eastern horizon. Sylla's paw beckoned Imray left, pushed right, dipping, banking as the mountains rose around them. His fist chopped down, Imray cut power and they floated under a peak outlinecf in crystal fires. They were just shielded from the field on the planet below. "Last pass coming up," said Svensk. "Splendid. They've blown up the field antennae. That eliminates our trace. Sitting down. IF now." "From which one deduces?" asked Sylla. "From which one deduces that they either do not know we are here or do not care, or have some other plan. We could be going into a trap?" "First one best," said Imray. "They're going to send out a party." Pomeroy patched in and they heard the harsh voices now augmented by clangings. Quent stowed the lasers by his console. "Are they human?" Imray nodded gloomily. "Is a judgment, boys. They going to mess up." "Eating the natives?" "Maybe better so," Imray growled. "No -- we don't know exact what they do. They come here once only, burn two farms, go quick. Why they come back?" "You will recall my hypothesis at the time," said Svensk.  Sylla made a frying sound. "Yes. Crude but effective." Svensk nodded. "The adobe shells should make excellent hearths and the heat developed would be adequate to refine out most of the metals." . Pomeroy caught Quent's look. "You saw the metal in their houses? All woven in, even on their clothes. Every house is loaded, accumulation of centuries. Haven't a cat's use for it -- purely religious. They pick it up on ritual collecting trips. Spicules, nuggets, it's all scattered around in grains in alluvial rubble. You couldn't mine it. Point is, there's tantalite, osmiridium, maybe some palladium. Big price around here. When we found those farms burned, Svensk noticed they'd been at the ashes. Metal was gone. He figured they'd come back for more, burn the town out. And the damnfool Sops , run in when they're scared." He grimaced, not comicafly. "Why wouldn't they make the natives bring it to them?" "Never get it. Sops are difficult. Much simpler this way. Also hairier, Drake style." "If this is true, it's our clear duty to stop it," said Quent. "Son," said Imray, "Space Force is long way away. We here, only. What they got down there, Svenka?" "Sector Ten was quite correct," said Svensk. "Unmistakable. They have succeeded in repairing that A.E.V. The shield was on for a minute just now." Quent whistled. "Do you mean they've got an Armed Escort Vessel? That shield will be a phased englobement -- they can sense and fire right through it." "Drake damn good spacer," Imray told him. "Always watch. We try sneak in, we get fireball in nose. We stuck, looks like." ""Je me demande'" said Sylla, "How do they propose to conflagrate the city?" "A good point," Svensk stretched. "The farms, of course, were fired with portable flamers. This seems a slow method. Possibly irksome as well. I fancy they may intend to use the ship as a mobile torch." "If they hover that low," Quent said thoughtfully, "they could only use the top half of their shield. An A.E. shield forms in two hemispheres. Same for the sensor field, too. They can't englobe fully much below a thousand meters." "Ahe!" exclaimed Sylla. "One could thus attack them under the belly, non! But -- we cannot get our ship from here to there undetected. And the sled, it functions only in the air... If only we possessed a space-to-air attack pod!" "You do," said Quent. They stared at him. "The aft rocket turret. Look at you manual." "Manual," said Imray blankly. "In a few early peebees, the aft rocket cell is demountable and converts to a module capable of limited in-atmosphere function," Quent recited. "The empennage is sealed flush to the hull. You unbolt a stabilizer fin and swivel it around for the delta. I checked it over -- it's there. Didn't you ever notice the shielding and lock on that thing?" "Fantastic," said Svensk. "Now you mention -- but how is it powered?" "You couple on an emergency booster and impellor unit from the ship's drive after the thing is set up and the pilot is inside. Preferably a spare, if you have one -- you'll recall that my inspections terminated at the engineroom bulkhead," he said bitterly. "You sure manual say all that, son?" Imray demanded. "This thing work?" "Certainly," Quent snapped. "How do I know if it works?" Sylla licked his chops. "Thus, one could employ the thrust while concealed by this moon, and descend without power, avoiding detection because of the small size, and brake after one is below their horizon. One then approaches silently at ground level, on impellors -- and when the enemy elevates himself, boom." He sprang to the shaft. "Let us view this marvel!" In the hold Quent showed them the old demount levers, long since obstructed by mail-pod racks. "One wonders how orthagonal a trajectory this thing would endure," said Svensk. "T h e r m a I I i u m," Quent shrugged. "If the delta didn't come off." "Somebody going to get killed bad." Imray peered suspiciously IF into the turret. "For engine I must talk Morgan. Pfoo!" "You talked him into harassing me easily enough," said Quent. "No, that natural," grunted Imray, hauling over to the speaker. "Someday that spook will meet a Drake and find out who his enemies are," said Pomeroy's voice from the bridge. "They have a party in the city now. Looting. Gives us some time." ""Allons, the suits," called Sylla from the ladder. I N AN hour's sweating hullwork they had uncoupled the turret and dogged it to the fin. The old sealant was vitrified but the assembly went in with surprising ease. "That stuff will burn off," said Quent. "What a contraption!" "The aerodynamics of a rock," Svensk murmured. "Pod-chutes, perhaps, could be attached to these holes? I suggest as many as possible." "The engine approaches!" Sylla popped out of the turret as the massive shape of Imray appeared around the Rosenkrantz' stern, propelling a drive unit bundled in a working shield. "Two. gross nanocircuits must I get," he grumbled as they all wrestled the inertia of the big unit. They brought it into line with the turret lock. Imray glanced in. "You check how it steers, Syll?" "That rather mystifying secondary panel on the rocket console," said Svensk. "Perfectly obvious, once the power leads were exposed. I shall have no trouble." His long figure contorted as he groped for the control of his thermal vest. Sylla slid between him and the turret. "This is no swamp for overheated serpents. Desist -- you will be worse than the ants. It is I who go, of course." "So." Imray turned on Quent, who was moving in on the other side. "You want go, too?" Quent grabbed the lock. "I'm the obvious choice." "Good," said Imray. "Look here." He tapped Quent on the shoulder with one oversized gauntlet and suddenly straightened his arm. Quent sailed backward into Sylla and Svensk. When the three sorted themselves out they saw that Imray had clambered into the turret, which he filled compactly. "Close up engines, boys," he blared jovially into their helmets. "Watch tight, is hot. Syll, you set me good course, vernt?" The three lieutenants glumly coupled the drive unit, bolted and thermofoamed the extra chutes and piled back up to the bridge. "Foxed you, didn't he?" Pomeroy sobered. "They're still tearing up the chief's house. We may have them figured all wrong." The screens showed Imray's vehicle lurching past on a climbing course above the dark moonscape. "Svensk, explain to him the navigation." Sylla crouched over his console. "He must modify to azimuth thirty heading two eighteen or he will burst into their faces at once. Now I devise the settings for his burndown." "Sure, sure," said Imray's voice. They saw his rocket module yaw to a new course. "Svensk, what I do with pink button?" "Captain," Svensk sighed, "if you will first observe the righthand indicators -- " "At least the impellors work," said Quent. Pomeroy fretted: "This is all guesswork." Svensk was now relaying the burn configuration, which the ursinoid repeated docilely enough. "At one-one-five on your dial, check visual to make sure you are well below their horizon. Do not use energy of any sort until you are two units past horizon. Captain, that is vital. After that you are on manual. Brake as hard as you can, observing the center limit display and -- " "After that I know," interrupted Imray. "You take care ship. Now I go, vernt?' "You are now go," said Sylla, motioning to Pomeroy. "Gespro-oo -- " trumpeted the voder before Pomeroy cut it. "What does that mean?" asked Quent. "I've never known," said Svensk. "Some obscure mammalian ritual." "Our Captain was formerly a torch gunner," Sylla told Quent. "But perhaps you -- " "I've heard of them," said Quent. "But I thought -- " "That's right," said Pomeroy. "Ninety-nine per cent casualties. Flying bombs, that's all. He can run that thing, once he gets down." "He will be out of the moon's shadow and into their sensor field in fifteen seconds," said Svensk. "One trusts he remembers to deactivate everything." heard Imray humming as he tore planet-ward at full thrust. Sylla began chopping futile cutpower signals. The humming rumbled on. Pomeroy squeezed his eyes, Sylla chopped harder. Svensk sat motionless. The rumble cut off. "No more emissions. His course appears adequate," said Svensk. "I suggest we retire to a maximally shielded position and signal Farbase." "Impellors, Mr. Morgan," said Quent. When Sylla put up his Jist Quent followed it until they IF reached a deep crater which would block the scatter of their star-to-star caller. "If we're in luck," said Pomeroy, "Farbase can get . their teakettle here in three days, plus or minus a week. All they have is a ferry for picking up pieces. Bound to be pieces -- of somebody." He sighed. "Let's get back where we can hear 'em." They tiptoed back to the horizon. The Drakes below them gave no sign of detecting the approach of Imray's meteor. Neither did they reveal any intent to use their ship to fire the town. As the moon on which the Rosenkrantz was riding sank below the horizon of the field they were obliged to leave it and maneuver into full sun-blast. Quent's eyes burned; he was becoming aware that he had scarcely slept for a week. "If only we could give one little burn planetward," Sylla chafed. "How soon, my scientific friend?" "With their drive off -- well -- they would be able to read shipsized burst from our present orbit for at least another hundred degrees of planetary rotation," said Svensk. "Don't you agree, Quent?" Quent nodded wearily. "And that A.E.V. has about double our acceleration and six times our rocket range and can turn inside us. We wouldn't have a prayer." He had said it twice before. The lutroid spat dryly and put his elbows on his console. Pomeroy sat, hands cupped over his earphones, motionless. "Emission," said Svensk suddenly. "Imray is down and braking.' "That damn ship hasn't even budged," Pomeroy said. "I can still hear them yakking to the shore party. We're all wrong." "Still braking. It just occurs to me, there was space for two more chutes." "He requires rather two more gravity webs," said Sylla. "He is mad." "Torchers," said Pomeroy. "There is some distortion for which I cannot compensate," Svensk complained. "He is very close to their horizon -- ah -- I believe he has managed to deflect." "That ship isn't going anywhere," Pomeroy fumed. "If I could suppress this wretched bias," said Svensk. "He is on impellors now, I think. But moving very erratically." "He finds perhaps a ravine." Sylla was kneading his console. "Toward the field again," said Svensk. "Much too near. One fears that he is omitting to wait for them to lift." "The old maniac will sail right onto their screens," Pomeroy groaned. "While we sit here," Sylla muttered. "If he's in that canyon back of the field," said Quent, "he might sneak under their shield. Provided they weren't looking. It's a fairly broad target. Can he -- " Sylla's head had snapped around. "He understands to shoot," he told Quent. "Can I rely on that, Mr. Sylla?" Quent met the lutroid's yellow stare. "Accelerating on the same line," Svensk announced. "Dismal." "Got it!" Pomeroy shouted. "Secure locks -- but there isn't time. Up, you bastards! Up!" "How long before he cuts their line of sight, Mr. Svensk?" "This detestable -- at ground level, maximum two minutes. Much too close. They're bound to spot him." "Over to me on manual, Mr. Sylla," said Quent. "If you can get to the wrecking lasers it'll help the display. Ready, Mr. Morgan?" The lutroid shot over him and down the shaft. "Stay braced and warn Appleby!" Quent yelled after him, coding for drive. "If Imray can hit what he shoots at, this'll distract them. If not -- " He rammed home the lever and they pitched in their webs. As the screens faded the planet bloomed up and swirled crazily. "We're in their sensors now," gasped Svensk. "I believe -- " "They're lifting." Pomeroy was plastered on his board. "They see us." Quent bent the Rosenkrantz into an atmosphere-grazing turn. Pomeroy was struggling to move a switch. The bridge filled with Drake voices, reverberating lashback. A siren honked. The voder cut off. For a flash Quent thought his eardrums had gone but as acceleration topped out he heard the others fill their lungs. "Their shield does appear to have collapsed," said Svensk. "I can't be positive in this -- " "He got them!" Pomeroy yelled. "Power's gone! Wait -- they're coming back on emergency. Listen to 'em cry!" Noises blared from the Drake ship. "Where's Imray?" Quent threw in the retros and they pitched again. Sylla came scrambling out of the shaft and hung onto Imray's chair. "Where is he?" "I can't at the moment," Svensk protested. "The resultants -- " "Listen." Pomeroy tuned the uproar to ululating wails. "The Denebian national anthem." He flopped back in his seat, grinning. "Might as well go get him -- that ship's dead in the dirt. He cracked one up their landleg sockIF et while they were gawking at us. Must have been bloody under 'em!" Quent jolted to a thump on the back. Sylla climbed down, grinning. Svensk arched his neck -- his bony beak was not adapted for expression. "Is he all right?" called Appleby's voice. "I fixed some hot jam truffles." "So that was the anomaly," said Svensk. "Incredible. The nutritive drive of the human female." "Bloody good, too," said Pomeroy. He jerked to his board. "Holy Space -- " "What is it?" "The Jasper just hailed us," he told them, "She's coming by. Five minutes earlier and we'd all been up the pipe." He sagged again and reached for his bulb. "By the Path!" Imray howled on the voder. "You pick me up or I sprucher you too." Q uent was clumsy with exhaustion by the time they got the rocket module stowed and the hot drive unit back to Morgan. He glanced at the wrecker ports and then followed the others to the bridge where Pomeroy was watching the grounded Drakes. "I take over, son." Imray sprawled in his command chair. wrinkling his hide luxuriously. "Watch tight. Bad mess they get loose before Farbase come." He chomped a jam tart. "Are you all ready for the bad news?" Pomeroy wheeled around to face them. "Remember that Gal News man we ducked at Farbase? He's on the shuttle. Coming here." Imray choked. "Wants to interview you," Pomeroy pointed at Quent. "And Appleby, too." Quent shut his eyes. "He can -- why won't they let me alone?" Absently he fingered the laser by his console. "Admiral Quent's son in battle with Drake pirates," Pomeroy grinned sourly, "While Admiral Coatesworth's fiancee cheers? His board's all lit up." "This rather cooks it," said Svensk. Sylla was drumming his claws. They all looked at Quent. "What you tell him, son?" "Tell 'em." Quent muttered exhaustedly. "Why, I'll tell 'em the ship stinks and your computer is full of mush -- and the engineroom is a fugnest -- " his voice rose -- "infested by a spook who has you so terrorized you have to bribe him to move ship. And my fellow officers are a set of primitive jokers captained by a maniac who has to resort to physical force -- and the only humans who can stand the ship are an unshaven alcoholic and a madwoman who buggers the sensors with fudge-machines and underwear." He rubbed his neck. "My first ship. Look, Fm going to sack out, right?" He pushed off for the ladder. "You tell them that?" Imray demanded, beaming. "Flying fugnest?" "Hell no, why should I? It's not true." He pulled into the shaft and rammed into Imray's hard paw. "Son, you got to." "wA.?" "Tell them can't stand. Want new job. Must!" Imray was shaking them both for emphasis. "Wait -- one -- minute." Quent disengaged himself. "That's exactly what you were putting me on to think, wasn't it? But why?" He frowned around at them. "Why? I mean, hell, I'm for integration." "Precisely the problem," said Svensk. Imray whacked his thigh exasperatedly. "Who you think build this boat?" "Well, it's a human design -- " "Human fix up. Is build by Svensk's people, original. Was part their navy. Space Force say, indefinite loan. Little boats, you never hear. Space Force come along, make treaty. Suck up little boats. Even ants they got some type space boat, vernt, Svensk?" "More of a pod, I believe." Svensk crossed his long legs. "Something, anyway. Son, you think like your father say, all en-aitch people want integrate with Space Force?" "Well, uh," said Quent. "The Gal Equality party." "Sure, sure." Imray nodded. "Some en-aitch people want be officer big starship, is fact. Also fact, en-aitch people want have say in Gal Council. But is different here." He leaned back, folded his arms. "Here is original en-aitch space force, us little boats. We been on these boats long time. Long, long time. We been patrol since was no sector, eh, Syll? When humans come with us, is only individual humans. One here, one there. Pom know. But we not integrated with you. You is integrated with us." "Bravo!" cried Sylla. "Hear, hear," said Svensk gravely. "But, what -- " said Quent. "The captain means," Pomeroy told him, "that he's not about to get integrated with the Space Force. None of us are. We do our Job. They can stow their sociological programs. Their directives. Channels. Personnel fitness profiles. Rotation and uptraining tours. Pisgah! If this integration trial business goes green, we've IF had it. And -- " he poked his finger at Quent -- "you are a prime test case. Lieutenant." "Even Morgan they steal," Imray rumbled angrily. Quent opened his mouth, closed it. "We were so confident," said Svensk. "It did seem ideal, when you turned out to be Admiral Quent's son. We felt it would be simple to impress you as being, as it were, quite unintegrable," He sighed irritatedly. "I may say that your determined optimism has been a positive nightmare." "Let me get this straight." Quent scowled. "You wanted me to yell so hard for reassignment that the program would be shelved?" "Correct." Sylla slapped his console. The others nodded. "What about this flimflam here in Sopwith?" "Too fancy," grunted Imray. "We were getting desperate," said Pomeroy. "You just wouldn't discourage. So we thought maybe we could work it the other way, build up a case that would convince the Gal Eq crowd that humans weren't ready to, ah -- " He looked away. "Well, you figured it." "I knew you were out to clobber me," Quent said grimly. "Only I thought it was my father." "It was in no way personal, Quent," Sylla assured him heartily. "Believe me, we would do the same for anyone, nonV "But this is insane!" Quent protested. "How can you? I mean, do you realize my father got me assigned here? He's sure I'll come around to his way of thinking and furnish him with political ammunition to use against integration." "That rather optimises things, doesn't it?" Svensk rattled his neckplates. "Increased familial solidarity is a plus value for primates." Quent snorted. "What were you supposed to be, Mr. Spock? I knew damn well you're a Gal Tech graduate. You should have taken the course on oedipal conflicts. Also the one on ethics," he added acidly. "Some primates set quite a value on truth." "But you've got to help us. Lieutenant," Pomeroy said urgently. Quent was preoccupied. "How many languages do you speak, anyway? There was a Pomeroy who wrote some text -- " "Lieutenant! Look, we'll all help fix up a tale of woe you can give them -- " "Are you serious?" He looked at them, appalled. "You expect me to falsify my official duty report? Lie about you and the ship?" "What one little lie?" Imray's voice sank to the crooning tone he used on Morgan. "Son, you good spacer. Save ship, verntl You say this integration nonsense okay, we finish. You not let Space Force mess up old Rosy, son." "But goddammit," Quent exploded. "It's not just one lie. It'd go on and on -- investigations, appeals -- my father smirking around with the Humanity Firsters trumpeting every word I said on one side -- and the Gal Eq people reaming me from the other. I'd never be free of it. Never. How could I function as a space officer?" He rubbed his head wearily. "I'm sorry. I'll say as little as possible, believe me. But I will not put on any act." He turned to go below. "So stubborn, the humans," Sylla snarled. Quent continued down the ladder. "Wait, Quent," said Svensk. "This publicity you dread can't be escaped, you know. Suppose you say nothing. The facts speak for themselves. Gal Eq will be delirious: Arch-racist's Son leads Nonhuman Attack on Human Pirates, for starters. Prolonged cheers. AllGal network showing the hero and his en-aitch pals. I daresay they'll nominate you Tor the next Amity award. Really, you're just as well off doing it our way." Quent stared at him in horror. "Oh, no. No." He began to pound his forehead on the ladder. "It's not fair." His voice cracked. "I thought when I got to space they'd let me alone. It 's been bad enough being Rathborne Quent Junior, but this -- spending the rest of my life as a -- a ventriloquist's dummy for Integration politics. Everywhere I go! Every post, my whole career. How can I be a spacer?" Imray was shaking his head. "You natural victim social situation, son, looks like. Too bad." He exhaled noisily, and licked a piece of jam off his fist. "So, is settled. You going help us, vernt?" Quent lifted his head. His jaw set. "No, I told you. That's out," he said bleakly, "I didn't come into the service to play games." His voice trailed off. "Call me next watch, right? We're all pretty weary." "Sure, sure," said Imray. "Syli, Svenka, you boys go. We got time think something." "Forget it," Quent told him. "There's no way out of this one." he sighed, hauling down the shaft. "I wish I could just disappear." He stopped dead and looked up thoughtfully. "Ah-ah," he said. He climbed back up and collected the lasers. The last thing he remembered was leaning back on his hammock fully dressed with a laser in his hand. G al newsmen yelled at him, crowds jostled him. The bridge IF of the Adastra swarmed with kavrots. Quent came groggily awake, sure that he had heard a lock open. But the ship seemed to be normal. He sank back and dreamed that he vras wearing a clangorous glass uniform. When the cocoon grabbed at him Quent struggled to consciousness. The Rosenkrantz was going into full star drive. He plunged into the shaft and found himself nose to nose with an unknown girl. "Gah!" "Hello, Lieutenant," she said. "Want some breakfast?" She was a dark girl in silver coveralls. "Who -- who're you?" "I'm Campbell, your new log off," she smiled. "Drakes." He hurled himself headlong for the bridge. "Where are they? What's happened?" "Hi, there," said Pomeroy. The others looked up from their consoles. They seemed to be drinking coffee. "Where are we headed? Where did she come from?" "Sit, son," said Imray genially. The dark girl bobbed up to place a bulb of coffee on his console. "Is she a Drake?" "Good heavens, no." She laughed. Quent blinked. The conformation under the coverall was interesting. "I'm a duck," She vanished. Dazedly Quent gulped some coffee. "How long was I asleep? Farbase -- they've come and gone, right?" "Not likely." Pomeroy snorted. "They won't get to Sopwith for thirty hours yet." "But who's watching the Drakes?" "The Rosenkrantz, who else?" said Sylla, dead-pan. "What? Captain Imray, what is going on?" Imray waved his paw. "Problem finish, son." He belched comfortably. "We fix, eh, boys?" "Oh, God." Quent squinted at them. He gulped some more coffee. "Mr. Pomeroy, you will explain yourself." "Well, you can forget about that newsman and all that," Pomeroy told him. "When he gets to Sopwith he'll find' the Rosenkrantz and he'll find Miss Appleby all right -- but he won't find you. Nobody'll find you." "Why not?" Quent , glared around nervously. "Because you are no longer on the Rosenkrantz,"" said Svensk. disappearing. Since we could scarcely remove you from the Rosenkrantz, we simply removed the Rosenkrantz from you." He stretched pleasurably. "Solves everything." What have you done now? "Observe!" Sylla pointed to the sealed log certificates. Quent pulled himself over warily"P-B #T J-B," he read. "But's that's wrong. That's not -- " "Peebee Jasper Banks, that is." Pomeroy chuckled. "We're the Jasper Banks now, see?" "What?" Quent pawed at the case. "Those are official seals. You -- " "Not to worry, it's just temporary. Jasper owed us a couple of favors. They were glad to oblige. Fact, they wanted to head back to Central anyway. So we just traded registry and log officers and gave them our mail. They took over the DrakesTsee?" "But that's -- " "Beautiful," Pomeroy nodded. "Gfl News can pull the Jasper apart, they never heard of you. No one ever actually saw you on Rosy, did they? He'll figure it's some garble. Has to -- there's Appleby; all as advertised. And the Drakes. He'll have to be satisfied with that. Quent took some more coffee. He felt like a man trying to shake off a bad dream. "And the beauty part," Pomeroy went on, ""Jasper s an .all-Human peebee. That'll really befuddle them." "No integration aspect left," said Svensk. "Gal Eq will be dashed." "It can't work. It's -- what about Appleby?" "I hope this one as good cook," muttered Imray. "Appleby's fine -- she never heard of you," Pomeroy assured him. "Morgan let her have these crystals she's always wanted, see?" "Uh. But -- they're going back to Central as us? What happens there? Personnel. My father." "Personnel," Pomeroy scoffed. "They're dingled up half the time. They won't get their circuits flushed till we've swapped back." "But my father -- " Quent yelped. "When do we trade back?" "When we intersect, bien sure,"' said Sylla. "When's that? Hold it. Wasn't the Jasper headed on some job away out?" "That's right," said Pomeroy. "The wild sector. Thirteen-zed, they call it. Wasn't due to start patrol there for a while but they got this emergency call. So they sent out the Jasper. That's us, now." "Quite remote and unexplored, really," said Svensk, stretching. "Challenging." "New patrol good job," Imray grunted. "You want be spacer, son, verntl Nobody mess your career out there." He scratched his broad chest contentedly. "Integration program? Pfoo! Never catch." "You mean we start patrolling out there? And they take our old one. When do we trade back with IF JasperT "Assuming our circuit is, say, twice the length of theirs," Svensk ruminated, "and assuming they keep near schedule, the perinode should precess around -- " "Spare me." Quent's big jaw began to grind and he breathed forcefully. The reaction pushed him slowly out of his console. He hooked one leg around his seat back and hung over them scowling. "My career," he said tensely. "Your unspeakable solicitude... Sixty days on my first duty I find myself involved in an actionable conspiracy. First officer of a vessel under fraudulent certification, on an illegal course in defiance of orders -- without one clobbing prayer of ever getting back into anything resembling legal status. My career. Who'd believe me? What happens when -- gentlemen, did it never cross your conniving minds that this is a general courts offense?" He reached out and laid his hand on the emergency starcall cradled between him and Imray. "My only sane course is to bring this to a halt right now -- regardless." He yanked the caller from its cradle. They gaped at him. Sylla's ears folded back. "Lieutenant, no," said Pomeroy. , Quent fingered the starcall. His solemn face was corded. "What's the nature of this emergency, Mr. Pomeroy?" "Some en-aitch trQuble," Pomeroy spread his hands. "Signal split before they got much. They gave ihQ Jasper some stuff -- " "Three argon cylinders, one case of mudbinds, one pan-venom kit," said Miss Campbell from the shaftway. "And an incubator." She placed a breakfast server on Quent's console and departed. "You figure it, sir," Pomeroy chuckled hopefully. Quent's face did not soften. He tapped a square nail on the starcall, slowly, desperately. Nobody moved. Sylla's leg muscles bunched stealthily; Quent's free hand drifted to the laser. There was a faint slithering sound. Quent's jaw jerked around to Svensk. The big saurian's fingers came away from his vest and he stretched ostentatiously, jogging the computer. Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand fleets Quent slapped it silent with the laser. He lifted the starcall. "No, son, no," Imray protested. Quent drew a deep breath. For a moment the Jasper Banks nee Rosenkrantz fled on through the abyss in humming silence. The aroma of bacon drifted through her bridge. Quent's face began to work convulsively. ""Kavrots"" he muttered. He let out an inarticulate howl. Sylla's reflexes carried him into the bow grips and Pomeroy dived under his board. They goggled at Quent. He was making a wild whooping noise which they could not at first identify. Then Pomeroy crawled out, grinning, and Imray's shoulders started to quake. Quent roared on. His face was astounded, like a man who hasn't heard himself guffawing wholeheartedly in years. Invisible around him, ghosts of iQ Adastra, Crux, Sirian shriveled away. "All right," he gasped, sobering. He pushed the starcall and the laser back in place and reached for his breakfast. "Kavrots. So be it. Who's on watch in this fugnest?" for his thirty productive years as a science-fictioneer -- for the twentieth anniversary of his first hook, which Doubleday is celebrating by issuing Mifflin's publication of his IF TO A. To an Earth accustomed to miniwars, indestructible aliens brought micro war!  bank of electronic receivers in the tower, oozing sweat and scotch from his pores. Colonel Ward anxiously scanned the Manoc landing strip for General Metzger's C-#. The general could r have only one reason for visiting Manoc at this time -- to check on rumors that its commanding officer was derelict in his duties and drinking to a degree unbecoming an officer. The squawk box kept nagging at him. He paid little attention to it. Radar had picked up something. That something was streaking along at seventy thousand feet and at an estimated two thousand miles per hour. Should an element of jets be sent up? "Disks." Ward sneered. "Meteors." He connected radar and leaned over the box to give emphasis to his words. "Sergeant, if you track just one more flying saucer and interrupt me, I'll -- get on the ball, sergeant." He snapped at the towerman. Didn't he know that General Metzger was coming in? Why hadn't he aborted that last flight of jets and cleared the runways? Ward slammed the door going out. In the jeep, on the parking raipp, he lit his fifteenth cigarette since # that morning. Ashes fell on his immaculate uniform and he brushed them off angrily. The sharply pressed uniform was in atonement for the scotch. For six months, while his reputation declined, he had progressed in the art of being the well-dressed man. What was a military man, anyway? Did he wear the bullet scar, canting over a bloodshot eye like an extra eyebrow, as a badge of honor? Should he laugh at being grounded, physically decayed at forty and shelved behind a desk? Should he complacently accept the fact of his wife's death-her destruction before his very eyes from cancer? Or did a man, even a military man, have a right to seek whatever it was that other men sought in bottles? Well, he had had it all. Including the bottles. And now here was the general coming to sit in judgment over his conduct. Ward saw a C-# go around and let down for landing. He started the jeep and moved it ahead. The general climbed slowly, stiffly from the ship. That was a bad sign. Adjutants in the Eighth Air Force had run for cover when the general moved with that stiff-legged walk. He was a large man, with a full head of iron-gray hair and an irongray mustache. He squeezed himself silently, after one puzzled glance at Ward's uniform, into the jeep. S IX pilots stood stiffly at attention in the green-plushed office at operations. Ward glared at them. "What are you men doing here? No flights are scheduled for this morning." The general placed himself quietly into a corner -- watching. IF "It's come back," one of the pilots said. "We'd like to make a gunnery run on it." "Sir!" Ward snapped. "What's come back?" "The missile, sir, that radar's been tracking. It buzzed the tower five minutes ago. They've plotted its course -- it's swinging in a hundred-mile circle and reducing speed. About mach one." Ward frowned. What did they expect him to do? Buckle their harnesses for them? "If the thing's circling, then it's not a meteor," he growled, singling out the flight leader. "Why didn't you alert your element and take after it?" "Your orders were -- " "If you can't think for yourself you're not qualified to lead men. Adams, you take over the flight. Ruppert, you fly his wing. Now get out of here." The general said nothing. He had obviously come simply to observe. And observe he would. In ten minutes the desk squawk box began chattering. It was the tower. The towerman had the thing in h's glasses, guessed it was traveling at about three hundred miles per hour. It seemed to be letting down for a landing. He could see Adams' flight firing tracers and rockets at it, without effect. Yes -- it was landing. About five miles out, on the desert. Ward looked at the general. The headache came first -- something spotted by radar, estimated to travel at fabulous speeds, unmarked, unknown. Maybe even a guided missile. But who in the world would fire a missile at Manoc -- when there were New York and Washington? "I'll send out a demolition crew to bring it in," he told tower. disk. It lay, not mangled from impact, lightly on the hangar floor. Machined as smoothly as an artillery shell, devoid of jutting airfoils or rocket tubes. The general touched the nose section, where a delicate script was engraved in the metal. "It's a guided missile," he said. "Russian, probably." Ward rubbed his hand over the script. "Maybe," he said. "I'll get a cryptograph man over here." He looked at the thing warily, disliking what it meant -- the fuss and red tape it would occasion. Two thousand miles per hour? No wings? The sergeant cryptographer arrived. Ward hurried off to rendezvous with a bottle of scotch. Back at the hangar at # he heard the sergeant through a slight rosy haze. "I can bust codes based on a known language. If this is a language the U.N. ought to be informed. You need a philologist." Not a sound from the missile. Demolition experts pronounced that it might explode. Might not. "Check again," Ward ordered. The general eyed him curiously. They said there was no other check they could make. "Bust it open," the general ordered gruffly. Ward frowned. He was still C.O. here. He faced the general. "Hold on. We'll get an impression of that script before anyone blows himself up. You can take it back to Washington. Sergeant, post a guard here and keep the area clear -- until I say otherwise." The general smiled wryly. By # hours he was airborne. Ward, feeling burned out sucked the bottle. The general would wire his request for Ward's resignation from Washington. It was a fact, written in his eyes. Ward felt relieved. There was nothing now to hold him -- he had no front to maintain. He opened another bottle. At #, slightly fuzzy, he wired Chicago. They said they would put a philologist aboard a jet. He was not yet drunk when, five hours later, the philologist arrived. Ward shook the old man's hand somberly. "Had to get you here fast. Dr. Neuman," he explained, "to decipher a script we can't identify. packages is to check on the sender. It might be a bomb. You understand that this is top secret?" The doctor smiled ruefully. An hour later he had ceased smiling. After two days. Ward noticed. Dr. Neuman's face had become actually grim. Ward sweated out and played poker at the officers' club with Major Vickers, Chief Flight Surgeon; Captain Hutchinson, Assistant; and the bartender. On the third day old Dr. Neuman placed a paper on Ward's desk. Ward stared at it. "We didn't think it was Russian," he said. "No earthly origin? Well, I'll be damned," while they opened the "can." blunt, unembellished. He would get a jolt when, together with Ward's complying notice of resigabout the script being Martian. No philologist had called Martian, of course -- simply no earthly origin. Alien intelligence. They pried open the can. Ward watched a mechanic peer inside the hole. IF Then: "Jesus -- God! There's somebody in here." It was human, all right. Strapped to a bulkhead, sucking oxygen from a metal mask. Medics carried it to the hospital, where it lay, unconscious. It was out of form, as though having lived in a twisted world -- limbs swollen at the extremities and tapering inward toward the body, giving it a comic-strip appearance. Head ovoid and smooth with features that seemed to be painted on like those on an Easter egg. And washed all over with an egg-yolk yellow. Martians looked like that, huh? Venusians? Who? No earthly origin. Ward returned to operations and smoked one cigarette off the end of another. Stubble adorned his chin. He felt better with the stubble and with the uniform rumpled. In a couple of days he would be out for good and able to slouch around in sneakers and a Tshirt. Then Hutchinson called from the hospital. Major Vickers, he said, had suddenly conked out. He was turning egg-yolk yellow. Something stirred in Ward's brain. Something cold and nebulous formed into a premonition. The phone kept ringing. Within an hour it had informed him that five medics had dropped and turned yellow -- that they vomited violently, then lay like dead men. Ward slapped a quarantine on the whole post. Captain Hutchinson jeeped from the hospital. Disheveled and exhausted, he had not wanted to break away. "You need a drink," Ward said. He poured the liquor. "What do you think. Captain?" The phone jangled again. It was the tower -- General Metzger's ship was over the field, radioing for landing instructions. Ward hesitated. He plugged in a desk mike. "Sorry, General -- we've got an epidemic here. Field one hundred per cent restricted." "Metzger speaking. I've got your replacement aboard. Give me landing instructions. Ward -- no nonsense." Ward took a deep breath. "General, get this. I've notified touch a wheel to Manoc, I'll have to slap you in the guardhouse. This is an emergency. The field is quarantined and restricted." He watched through the window as the General's C-# flew over the runway once, wheels up, banked and headed back east. He grinned wryly, visualizing Metzger trying to fit this development into headHutchinson had poured and swallowed another drink. "Colonel, we've worked like dogs and can't stop it. It's one of two things." He reached for the bottle. Ward snatched it. "You've had enough. This is no time to get drunk." The captain stared at him, tense, almost sneering. "Isn't it?" Ward turned, chopping down his anger. He snapped his fingers at the clerk across the room. "Sergeant, I want you to close all post bars for an indefinite period. Absolutely no drinking." He faced Hutchinson. "Let's get to work. Captain. If you have any opinions, state them." Hutchinson's face went slowly white. He spoke swiftly. "Only theories. That thing at the hospital is no Terran, as they say in space fiction. We've established that. We find he's polluted with an unknown but highly contagious disease. Deduction -- wherever he comes from might be plagued with the disease." "Rats leaving the sinking ship?" "Yes." "Any alternate theory?" The captain looked squarely at Colonel Ward. "Disease warfare," he said. "Invasion." quarters, bent over a microscope and scrutinized the slide that came with the report from the hospital lab. After several minutes of concentrated effort he saw flat specks suspended in the fluid of a lung section. He pushed back the microscope, touched fingertips and brooded. His eyes rested longingly on the bed but he shook his head savagely to clear it, left the room and trudged toward operations. Martian invasion. Mars was all he knew of outer space. So why not Mars? And disease warfare -- dreaded by all and outlawed by every country. Perhaps now a reality. It seemed incredible. Who would have supposed that beings out there would launch a ship packed with disease germs? Navigated by a suicide pilot -- who himself was the bomb? You could not keep a thing like this hidden. His cryptographed OP messages to Washington had finally resulted in alarm. Even Metzger reversed his field and began slashing red tape. He organized an airlift and had it running within thirty-six hours. Stuff was dumping into Manoc by the ton. Ward turned almost eagerly into operations. Senses a little sharper, brain a little freer, like muscles after exercise. Two days ago he had anticipated slipping away to Mexico. Now he soothed a frightened corporal -- his serIF geant clerk had toppled -- in the office. He made hourly personnelhealth checks. The latest check had one half of the post flat on its back. One half of Manoc's personnel knocked out in thirty-six hours. Those were heavy casualties. How many enemy casualties? None. Hutchinson reported by phone at #. "This Martian doesn't have a trace of rational thought. Colonel," he said. "Damn funny -- our clinical tests indicate he has the thought pattern of a low-order mammal. What's that figure?" "To me it totals zero. Dammit, Hutchinson, how could an irrational creature navigate a space ship from Mars -- or anywhere -- to Earth? How could a loworder mammal build the thing in first place?" "That's your problem," Hutchinson said. "I'm a doctor. I'll run some more clinical tests." What about the alien ship? Ward phoned the hangar and quizzed Morgan, flight engineer. Morgan sounded incredulous. "We've dismantled the thing," he said. "You won't believe this -- it's got an atomic propulsion system. An atom engine no bigger'n my fist. And, man, has it got power! Can't even estimate. And we couldn't find any controls aboard. No radio. No nothing." Ward sighed. No controls. And yet the thing had been flown in at two thousand miles per hour. And it had landed perfectly. to be some knowledge, some germinal fact that he could utilize to build a campaign against the egg-headed Martian and his stampeding germs before the news broke and plunged the country into hysteria. All his training could not have been for nothing. But you could not bomb bacteria. Send troops in against them? Gas? Tanks? Flame throwers? Or could you? He dialed the phone. "Hutchinson? Collect every conceivable concoction -- serums, antitetanus, smallpox vaccine, works -- and squirt it at those bacteria. Throw the whole damn medical book at them." But Hutchinson answered distractedly, as though he hadn't heard. "Colonel, your Martian or whatever is convalescing. Yeah. Not a trace of bacteria in the last blood test. And that's not all -- " Ward frowned in bafflement. Trapped behind this steel desk, he felt a bond with the infantryman who huddled helplessly in a foxhole while hell raged all around. He grunted, "Get over here, Hutchinson. On the double." When the captain arrived, he seemed to recognize Ward with difficulty. "Maybe we'd better have a drink. Colonel." Ward poured two stiff ones. "We did an interesting test yesterday." Hutchinson spoke slowly. "We ran an electroencephalograph on your Martian. You know, the machine that records electrical pulsations of the brain and translates thought processes and -- ah -- sensations electronically. Well, we got definite but unexpected results." Ward nodded noncommitally. He moved a finger around the edge of his glass. "The encephalograph indicated that over a hundred separate brainwave patterns were emanating from the alien." Ward looked up. "What?" "The same as if we'd focused the device on a crowd. Multiple thought sources. Multiple brains." Ward's frown deepened. "Previously you reported the Martian was irrational. Now he has a multiple brain. Make sense." "You figure the sense of it." Hutchinson bridled. "I never attended Command and Staff School. Today we tested other sick patients -- and each gave multiple brain-wave response. Then we ran a dozen airmen, not yet sick. through the encephalograph test. Each registered one cohesive thought pattern. It doesn't make sense. Yesterday the Martian was lousy with germs and registering multiple thought sources. Today he's germ-free and indicating a single source." "Are you certain the encephalograph is reliable?" Ward asked hollowly. He brooded for a time, then placed a hand gently on Hutchinson's shoulder. "All right. Captain. Thanks. I'm going to make a check of my own. Have some microscopes sent to the hangar. Then get some sleep. You're going to need it." After Hutchinson had left. Ward drove the jeep to Hangar Two. "Who's in charge here -- Morgan? Morgan, how do you figure this ship was navigated put there to Earth and landed safely -- without controls and only an unconscious man aboard?" "It don't figure. Colonel. Maybe some kind of telepathic control." "Morgan, this is important. Dismantle the Martian ship. Completely. Examine every atom of it with a microscope." "We already -- " "I mean literally. Get some rest first. I'll send around microscopes from the lab. Use them and report what you find." He drove back to operations. A thought was seeded on the edge of IF his brain. T he corporal leaped up when Ward entered operations. Ward blinked. "What's the matter with you, Corporal? Get a messenger here on the double." The corporal tripped over his own feet in his haste to reach the door. Ward frowned at him. "Hold on, Corporal. Where you going? I meant for you to telephone and -- " He stopped. "Something's wrong. Sick?" The corporal trembled. "N-no. But Captain Hutchinson is, sir, now. And he was here only a few... It's contagious. Maybe we'd better -- " Ward sighed. He had been dreading this. "Don't leave this room," he said. "You're losing control of yourself." The corporal's expression was pathetic. "But nine-tenths of the post has got it. Fifty men are dead. In a couple of hours itil be too late -- " Nine-tenths... Ward marveled. Nine-tenths of his force was already wiped out. He saw the frightened clerk moving toward the door. With one hand he opened a drawer and removed a gun -- an Army .# Colt automatic. "Corporal," he said quietly. "If you attempt to bolt from this room and start a panic -- I'll have to kill you. We've got to keep the germs here, isolated on this post, at all costs." The sight of the gun seemed to unnerve the corporal completely. He sobbed and jerked the door open. Ward fired. The report crashed, surprisingly loud, in the narrow office. The corporal dropped. By an effort of will -- so great that it stiffened every muscle in his body and covered him with sweat -- Ward managed to concentrate on the central problem. Martian disease... Hutchinson was knocked out. He would never know what hit him. He picked up the jangling phone. The caller was Private Dean at Hangar Two. He said Morgan had dropped fifteen minutes ago. Ward straightened up. "All right. Don't get panicky. Dean. Did you use the microscopes I had sent over?" He listened to Dean's voice a long time, then hung up, ordered a messenger from communications and began to write. The Pentagon, For cryptograph. Classification: Top Secret He could accept it once he faced it: More or less. Hundreds of brainwave patterns emanating from a diseased patient suggested inevitably that the bacteria had brains which were spraying out electric pulsations that a machine could record. A logically inescapable deduction. Martians -- or whoever -- were bacteria. And now the proof. Morgan and Dean had detected small, invisible -- (except to microscopes) -- controls in the nose section of the dismantled ship. Bacteria-size controls. Too infinitesimal to activate or test. Bacteria had navigated the compact ship across space -- it was their invasion. Was the strategic problem simpler now? It was worse. Ordinary bacteria were bad enough. Brainy bacteria were impossible. An equally impossible conjecture followed. Would they form a league -- an alliance -- with the bacteria here on earth? Was he cracking up? He walked to the window and gazed out at the airstrip. He saw sleek jets and rockets lined up on the ramps. Jets that he couldn't fly -- that nobody now would be able to fly. He was alone. Vickers was gone. Hutchinson was gone. The general was remote in Washington. What was the latest check? Sixty-five men? Sixty-five men out of two thousand were left on active status. A thriving post had been reduced to tomblike silence in a few days. There was a way left, possibly, to stop them. Of what use was he as a military man if he could not stop the enemy? If he failed the microbes would advance. They would spread beyond Manoc, utilizing lizards and birds, perhaps as transportation; reach a man, then hop from man to man and finally creep over the whole of Earth, reducing mankind everywhere to supine flesh. Moving slowly to the desk, pondering, he picked up the slide, held it up reflectively and drew a lighter from his pocket. Thoughtfully he applied flame to the slide, holding it firm until the specimen turned black, the plastic cracked, and his fingers burned. "Dead Martians," he mused aloud, dropping the charred slide into the wastebasket beside the scotch. He picked up the phone. "Get me General Metzger in Washington," he said. "The Pentagon." N OW he had plenty of time. Time to shower, shave and IF change into fresh uniform. Eveji to sleep. He walked over to the hangar. It was a good try, he thought, fingering the script engraved on the nose section. The next try would be his. The script, a metal document of celestial data, had enabled old Dr. Neuman to pin it down as the creation of an alien intelligence aware of vistas unavailable to man. Of course it was only guesswork but other ships might follow this one. So that whatever he did could prove inconclusive. His day -- and the days of his kind -- were probably done. There was no time left for soldiers, for the military -- he might buy a little time for those who would take over. Whether human or bacteria. He had felt useless for some time. The humanlike Martian? You could only suppose about him, too. A kind of cattle -- or food. Carried their food right along with them. Smart? Maybe they had abandoned Mars -- or another home planet -- because their human cattle, ravaged by disease, were dying off. He trudged back to operations, stepped gingerly over the corpse in his doorway and sat behind the desk. It might, he found himself thinking, have been interesting to talk with intelligent germs. What did germs think about, anyway? Did they love and hate? It was daylight when Colonel Ward awoke, hearing a faint, throaty drone in the distance. He shuffled to the window and peered out. The urge to vomit gnawed at him but he fought it down. He thought a moment about his wife, seeing her face and hearing her clearly in his mind, feeling a kind of pride. But it was rather humiliating. Colonel Ward thought, to have space conquered by bacteria. Put a man in his place, didn't it? By craning his neck he could see the bomber high up, cruising at about fifteen thousand feet, just a flash in the sunlight. In a few seconds it would be over the field. He looked at his watch. Right on time. A good man, the general. Dependable. He stared out at the field, watching for it. But he didn't get to see much. Only a sudden blinding glare, then a hurricane of smoke, mushrooming up and out. In a second, it was over.  Edited by Lester del Rey Will be back this Fall Watch for It on your newsstands The price was fine and the job was easy -- nothing but recreating the original Man! Genemaster, genemaster, make me a man. Quick as you can. Any type man, Genemaster, genemaster, true can t you see, A Galaxy's waiting for we? Child's song, circa # G.E. T here is a town called Raega, on a planet of the same name, located somewhere in the Western Arm of the Galaxy. It's far off the main trade routes, and a bit rustic, but I like it. It's home. There is always a carnival atmosphere about Raega, with all its various types of humanity, their foods, dialects, ceremonies and customs. I have a shop there, a modest one-man procurement agency located on a cobbled dark alley off the main street, and I do a moderately good business. It was just before lunch, # Juli # G.E., that the man came into my shop. I always keep dates. It's a nervous habit due to a slight hyperthyroid condition in my inheritance from my parents. Other things also are from my parents: ambition, drive, high intelligence -- but no beauty. "Beauty is a relative thing -- " so goes an ancient folk saying of the neoAstrititions I remember hearing once. It's not true in cases like mine. But I shouldn't complain. I was not bred for beauty. My genes were not chosen for ugliness either. Jt is simply a side effect, gene-linked to one of my necessary virtues. But I'm rambling. This guy now, tall, about three meters, with large purple wings and a medallion of office on a golden throat chain, came into the place as if he could buy it with one fingernail. (He probably could; they looked as if they were painted with platinum.) Some high mucky-muck from out near the Rim, planetary monarch or something. I remembered seeing his face in the dailies on several occasions. "May I help you, sir?" I opened, unsure of the correct form of address. "Are you Gentle-horn denJan?" he asked, glancing around at the place. It is a bit dingy. But I don't live here, nor does my business allow much time to straighten it up. "Yes, I am, and you?" He straightened up and announced with as much dignity as possible, "I am honored to be President denZarkos of the Royal Taran Hereditary Dictatorship." "I am very pleased to meet your highness. If you will but have a seat?" He looked around him, then daintily deposited his posterior in a chair by the desk, folding one satin-clad leg over the other and wrapping his counterbalanced tail around his waist like a belt. I bet myself that he could really fly on his home world; those wings did not look like just ornamentation. "I have a zoo," he said. "A modest little affair, only about five hundred basic stocks. Naturally it would be impossible to get all the diverse strains in the galaxy. I doubt if the number is even finite." He looked at me for agreement. I nodded, and he went on. "I settled for only the representative stocks, and completed what I considered the best zoo in this Arm about five cycles ago. Recently, however, a visiting diplomat from Centar imformed me that I am lacking a most important species. An Original." "An Original? But surely, sir, the most up-to-date information indicates that man arose separately on over one thousand worlds. I believe that it's called the Convergent Evolution Theory. The idea of an Original is a myth dating back to before any species had achieved space travel and IF each believed that it was the sole holder of intelligence in the universe. Why, the finds on -- " "No, you're wrong. But I am amazed at your wealth of knowledge. The diplomat, a very important person, I might add, assured me that recent discoveries on a small world near Centar predate all other discoveries by well show that the race was just beginning space travel at that time. He didn't come right out and say it, but, he obviously believes that it is the Original's original world; the cradle of humanity. It's called -- " he shuffled through some papers in his pouch and then came up with one and read from it -- "called Terra." "And you wish one of the inhabitants for your zoo?" "No. If that were the case I would have just dispatched a capture expedition. Unfortunately, the present locals are the survivors of a reseeding project. They are just dirty barbarians. I want an Original, as he was in the earliest days. Without this most basic of all basic stocks my zoo is valueless. I must have one. I understand that your procurement agency is the best in this Sector, perhaps in the whole Quadrant, although -- " he glanced around the room once more -- "it certainly doesn't look businesslike." "Well, your grace. I'm pleased that you have come to us," T said, ignoring his last remark. "I'll certainly do my best to locate an Original for you. But I doubt if there is one availably, anywhere. And even if there is it will be extremely expensive to obtain." "I was prepared for both eventualities. As for cost, here -- " he handed me a credacard -- "is one upon delivery to Tara. If you can't find a natural Original, I will accept a copy, of at least #  # genetic true characteristics. Genotype, mind you, not just phenotype. And it should breed true, under suitable micromanipulation dividual from haploid gametes." "Very well, your grace. I'll do my best." He stood and folding his dignity about him like a cape looked around the office again. Then he sniffed once and departed. A lways begin with the first step; it helps to keep one from tripping over one's own feet." My father once told me that in a fit of inventing proverbs. It's good advice, and I generally follow it. The first step on thi# job was a visit to Doc's place. Doc was an old transferest. Ferns who had been directed by the Genetics Board to bear a child with undesirable (to them) chromosomes could go to Doc and he would remicromanipulate the of their liking. It played hob with the class lines, a Titanoid bearing a Prime, for example, but if the fern had enough money Doc didn't care. Once the zygote was born (or hatched if that was the case) it was not often removed. The Genetics Board usually thought that it was due to their error somewhere in the original handling of the selection process. That occurred all the time; too hard not to make errors down there at the atomic level. Anyway, they didn't want to penalize the victim any more than she had already been. Highly illegal act, transferring. Doc had done the same job for a while on his home watched the percentages. The local G.B. found that too many ferns were all of a sudden giving birth to unselected offspring, differing from the selected characteristics by as much as eighty to ninety per cent. They began searching for wild factor in the equations and found Doc at the other end of an umbilical cord. He would have been shortened then and there but he was a distant relative of the local duke, so he was merely exiled. Here he is much more careful. He set up a bakery as a front (good bread, too) and slowly wormed his business into the average deviation curve. Here he minds the percentages with a vengeance; if caught operating on Raega would lose his head. Doc was waiting on a customer when I came in. He nodded me over to a corner while the woman to whom he was speaking, about seven months gone I noticed, gave me suspicious looks. Then he continued: "Now, now, my dear," he said. "If you had come to see me five, or even four, months ago I could have helped you." He glanced at her swollen belly. "But now I'm afraid that it's too late. I'm really terribly sorry." His antennae literally wiggled in sympathy. "Irreversible changes have occurred in your metabolism," he continued. "making it possible for you to carry a Glanceroid zygote. The new fetus, no matter what genes, would not be able to adapt to those conditions, and your body could not change to meet its requirements at this late stage. And then there's the matter of size. The new fetus would be at least thiry percent smaller... And many more reasons. Impossible." She turned and left, probably cursing Doc under her breath. She'd birth the kid, grow him a bit and send him off to the mines like the government wanted. Then she'd get caught again and be back to Doc's door in a year or so. I know the type well. "Well, Goodman Jan, what IF can this humble abortionist do for you today? I just got in some fine Lambian fetuses. Give them some biostim and about two days and you could have a couple of real nice combination valet-body guards. Or is it a few hot rolls you'll be having?" "Neither, Doc," I answered. "How about an Original instead? For business, not pleasure. And what was that word: aaborshtonist?" "Abortionist. Ancient form of my profession, although not as skilled. They were harassed and persecuted also." He shook his head sadly, then brightened up. "An Original? You mean the original type of man, don't you?" I nodded. "An Original. Hummm. How much?" "I'm getting two mill. I'll give you one-third." "I could use some money. To expand the bakery and so forth," he gestured. "I don't believe that you'll find any naturals, and you don't either or you wouldn't have come to me, right?" I nodded again, coming over to sit on the counter. "What is it?" Doc asked. "Your client doesn't believe in the Convergent theory?" "No, apparently he's got some unreleased info indicating a Divergent Evolution idea and is convinced that we all came from one stock 'way back when. Says we all come from a world called Terra, near Centar." "It's certainly possible, although you couldn't tell now with the way we play around with the chromosomes. But look, Jan, I can assemble any thing you want me to, and I do mean any thing, but I have to know what characteristics to chose for. I can't just pick them out of the air." "Especially since the client stipulated a guaranteed # -- # Original type genotype." "Well then, how are we going to get the characteristics?" "What about your computers? And your books?" "Jan, now I'm surprised at you. I'm not a wizard and the computer isn't magic. We can't pick facts out of the air. Before you walked in here today I firmly believed that we all evolved separately. Now you expect me to have a gene-chart on file of the characteristics belonging to a creature that I didn't believe in ten minutes ago." "I guess not." I stood to leave. "Wait, Jan. I didn't say that it was impossible. I can do quite a lot, but I need some leads. If only I had a little more to go on..." "All right. Doc, I'll see what I can do." "Good! And meanwhile I'll go below and see what the computer can turn up in the way of universal constants in metabolism and so forth." He showed me to the door. "Good luck to you, Jan, and good hunting!" "And the same to you. Doc." F rom Doc's place I took an aircab to the more legitimate Man Market. Raega is a big, well-populated world. Most basic types, I would guess at least ninety per cent of all those basics in the galaxy, can be found represented in at least one individual somewhere, if only in the gamete banks and zygote farms of the Man Market, where one can purchase embryos of any size, shape and eating habits, from methane-breathing Cajians to a building-sized, rock-metabolism Mercoid. Naturally it was my next stop. I didn't expect to be so lucky as to run into a vendor in Originals. That would have been too much to ask. But maybe I could get a lead or two, and maybe even a few characteristics. As we flew lazily over the sprawling slums that stretch outward from the rich center of town my mind turned over the problem. Where next? A visit to Terra itself? With the high pay involved that was a definite possibility. Below me I noticed the start of a fight between a couple of young Titans with shiny blades on their fingers and a group of rainbowwinged Pteroids. The Titans had a grudge, their bellies were empty and the Pteroids' were full. Off to the side I could just see the first policemen pushing their squat forms through the crowd of various shapes and sizes that had gathered to watch the diversion. They were too late; one of the Pteroids was down and hacked to death before the cops arrived to quell the disturbance with slashing stun guns. Then the entire scene was gone behind me. Smells of alien cookery, of sweat from a dozen kinds of sweat glands, of disease and filth that had lain in the streets for uncountable days, of lust and hatred and old, old grief came up at me from the ground. This was humanity #. This was the genus Homo. Our species varied with the individual: Titan, Mercoid, Pteroid, Moid, a thousand more, a type for each inhabitable world in the galaxy. The planets would not adapt to us so we had to change to survive on them. And here we are today, shattered into splinter species, hating and feeding on one another, competing with one another for our common heritage of life. The race of men, # Juli #. Did all of this come from Just one spark of intelligence arising on a long forgotten worldlet out near the Rim in the dark ages past? I'm a romantic; I wondered what he looked like, that first IF man. That one who was brash enough to challenge the universe, and smart enough to win his bet -- only to lose himself, that essence that was him, among the overwhelming reaches of the galaxy and the infinity of different molds he had to pour his intellect into to suit that infinity of conditions so that he might win. So that we would be here now, alive and kicking, in all our varied shapes. The cab landed and woke me out of my dreaming. "That'll be three and six, Man." "Here, have a five and keep the change, Man." The driver shook his tail at me in thanks and the cab lifted. I checked every livestock dealer up and down the Market. No luck. No one had even heard of Terra, or Terrans, or Originals. One Joe said that he had a Lamarkoid gamete, and was that good enough? "Nope," I told him. "It has to be one hundred per cent Terran." A nyway, the Man Market is near the Central Post Office so I didn't lose much time. I walked the two blocks there, through avenues of steamy bars and dope joints, noisy crowds and shouting vendors selling cakes and pottery and human beings, then up the sleeping steps into the green coolness of the Post Office. Mitar was in, the first bit of luck on this job. "Hello, Mitar, what's new?" I asked. "C over lambda equals nu," he said, and then smiled at his little joke. "What can I do for you today? The usual, or do you want to mail a letter?" "The usual. The usual rates?" He nodded. "Come on in." See, it's this way. Everybody on Raega gets letters. It's a law. A couple of decades ago a politician promised us a good postal system during his campaign, and surprisingly came through with it after his election. So now we have the most accurate Post Office in this Arm of the galaxy, with computers and everything to handle all the mail. And for the computers to do a good job they must have a record of every individual on the planet, their names, addresses, and their types, their species classification if you like. Occasionally, when I have to locate someone or some type real quick, I rent use of the main computer from Mitar, a swarthy Telocian with four all-seeing eyes in a row around his head who happened to be supervisor for the main P.O. He never asks me what programs I use and I never ask him what he does with the money I give him. It is not exactly illegal. They haven't caught us so they haven't passed a law against it. He showed me to the computer and then left, closing the door silently behind him. I set up my programs and fed them in. A few minutes later came the feedout: Things were beginning to break. H ospitals are usually thought to be antiseptically clean, I understand, but Raega Memorial is a charity place, and is kept up (or rather not kept up) by public taxes. Consequently the building is a hospital in name only. It is understaffed, and the staff underpaid. This doesn't attract the best medics. The victims live (and die) in smelly squalid wards built to hold fifty and containing over two hundred in small cramped beds that are shared. Too many patients, too few beds and too little care make Raega Memorial a nearly automatic death trap. Although some do escape, they tell me. The last attempt at hospitalness was a coat of white paint on the walls applied about a decade ago. Now even this last attempt was gone; the once white walls were dirty and grease-smeared, written all over, chipped and, in some places, peeled right down to the rusty metal framework. The only attempt at grouping the patients was by their financial status; partially self-supporting, unable to be self-supporting, and the less fortunate. Goodman tenApla fit into the last catagory. I found him in a small bed in the cheapest ward in the whole filfilthy place, playing a form of poker with his bed-partner, a Sart type with a large cancerous growth on its feeding appendage. "My name is denJan and I'd like to speak to you a moment, Goodman tenApla," I said, going up to him. He looked up from his cards suspiciously. "Eh, what's that? Me?" he said in a raspy voice. "I know my rights! You can't toss me out while I'm sick -- and I'm sick, terribly terribly sick! Right now, youngster. I'm in more pain than you ever felt in your life. Oooh! Oooh!" He clutched his stomach and went into some very convincing convulsions, sending the cards flying and therefore somewhat upsetting the Sart, who, I saw, had a IF winning hand. "Call a doctor! Call a nurse! I'm dying!" The Sart tried the bed button to summon aid. It sizzled in his hand, gave off some pretty purple smoke and died. He stumbled out of the bed cursing freely in his native tongue, an indescribable series of grunts and clicks, and staggered off down the corridor to fetch an attendant. I felt this had gone far enough. "Cut the dramatics citizen. I'm not here to kick you out," I said, tossing him a golden Imperial to provemy point. He stopped the sound effects and made it disappear, then glared at me again. "Who are you, if you're not an inspector? Who else but an inspector would want to see me?" "I understand that you come from Terra." "Oh ho, so that's what it is. Yes, lad, I came from Sol IV in my youth, and how I wish that I had never left! I still remember coming burrowards in the late afternoon, the twin moons high in the sky over the crimson sand dunes. But that was long ago, and what does that have to do with you? Customs, emigration?" "No, I'm not connected with the government in any way." This seemed to relax him slightly. "I'm looking for native Terrans -- conducting a survey -- " I lied, "and wonder if you would be so kind as to permit me to take a small skin sample for our records?" "You want my genes, huh? Are you a genelegger? Oh well, you can have 'em. I'm not so tight with 'em any more. Too old to have a natural child, and it would be nice to know that I'm leaving someone behind. Yeh, you can have 'em -- " he suddenly grew shrewder -- "for a price." He looked around at the decrepit surroundings. "I hate this place. But an old man's got to stay somewhere. You can have your sample, use it for what you will, but for one hundred Imperials." I chewed on that for a minute. "All right, it's a deal." "Too quick, youngster," he laughed. "You were prepared to pay more. Two hundred credits!" "That's not fair, we had a deal! One hundred and fifty!" "One seventy-five!" He was a sly old dog. "One sixty." "Oh, all right, if you throw in an ambulance ride to the Viceroy Hospital. I'm too old to argue long." "Done." I got the sample, a couple of cheek smears and a cc of blood. Around then the nurse for the ward showed up with the Sart, and I explained how Goodman ten Apia was transfering to the Viceroy. She called for an ambulance on her belt radio. "Good riddance," she told me. and spit at a Thart who was moaning over in a corner. Before the stretcher men arrived I asked Dug about his home system. "Four's the only inhabitable world," he told me. "Three is really in a more favorable condition, but the atmosphere is poisonous, too many hydrocarbons and ozone -- it probably was inhabited at one time but it can't support human life now." Then the boys arrived and lifted him onto the stretcher. He winked his third eye at me as they carried him out to the waiting car like a lord. Now he had money, and now I had some genes. Not originals, but close, N OW back at Doc's. He wasn't in front so I rang the bell on the glass counter. A door opened behind the pastry section and out stepped Doc, a big smile on his face. "I've got some good news," we said in unison, then I laughed. "You first." He collapsed into a chair, "After you left I got an inspiration to pay a visit to the local organ bank." He looked smug. "And -- " I started, but he refused to complete the sentence. Doc just sat there smiling. Something was up his sleeve: Finally, "Come on in here. I want to show you something." So for the first time I entered Doc's secret laboratory. It isn't large but it is well equipped for its function. An old electron microscope, ancient really, but well cared for, stood in a corner of the small room flanked by rows of chemical reagent bottles, stands of micro-manipulating tools -- and all computer on the opposite waU. In the center of the room was a wide bench of shiny metal with a mobile optical scope set up on one side and a white porcelain pan on the other. Within the pan I could see a brownish-red something about the size of my fist. "What is it?" I asked. "What does it look like?" Doc was feeling playful. "A... heart?" As if to reassure me it thumped once. "Right! And on the first guess too. You'd be good on a quiz show, Jan. It is indeed a heart, but what a heart! Four thousand years old at least and maybe more." "Where did you get it?" "I told you," he said, smiling. "The organ banks. It's so old that they can't use it on any present types. Wouldn't fit. So they Just kept it, for years, in the back of the banks, absorbing nutrient without producing anything. I managed to convince the staff that they didn't want it any more. The convincing, by the way, set you IF back one hundred Imperials. It isn't an Original, I don't think, but it will give us a good idea as it is older than the oldest records of what's your good news?" I told him of my experiences and gave him the sample bottles. "Well, well, well," he said, taking them over to the microscope. "Jan, my boy, we might, just might, have enough now." He made a slide and looked at it for a minute. Then he glanced at me. "Why don't you wait outside for a minute while I check a few things? I hate having people looking over my pseudo-shoulder while I work." I could see Doc was deep in the problem. He didn't even look up as I closed the door behind me. And through the supposedly sound-proofed panels I could distinctly hear him whistling. My Mother Was a Test-tube, My father Was a Wrench. Doc was happy in his work. Three hours later he came out of his inner sanctum, sweat in beads on his brow despite the airconditioning. "Whew! That was a hard one. Your added characteristics from that fellow in the hospital did the trick. What a screwy metabolism! no chloroplasts, no plug-ins, no A-converters, only a simple food-oxidation system. And I had to keep reinteresume the normal shape instead of returning into the Original but I finally got it." "You mean we have an Original? Alive? Already?" "Eh? Oh, sure, that's what I've been telling you. Come into the back, Jan, come in." He waved me in, followed, then pointed to the optical scope. Under it was now a small pseudouterus with Doc's gleaming tools still wet by the side. "Look in there. Go ahead, look, it wouldn't bite." I saw a cell in the scope, or rather a small clump of cells. I don't know much about embroyology but I would have certainly called it a beautiful blastula. As I watched, a couple of cells divided, their cytoplasm and tiny nuclei duplicating themselves in perfection. I looked up smiling. "We did it! You did it! Is it within the stipulated genotype limits of the client?" "According to Mabel here the chances are that it is a ## pure blood Original." He slapped the computer affectionately. "And Mabel is never wrong. Because he's our first born I made him a nice boy, Jan. Think of that, Jan," he beamed. "We're the parents of a beautiful unmutated Terran Homo... an Original, perhaps the first Original born in species is he? Neo-originalis?' "Why not sentiens," I asked after a moment of thought to recall my neoathenian. "Right you are!" Doc got out some old brandy, Algol V #I vintage. "Here's to our son," he toasted. ""Homo sentiensT ried us from Raega to Deneb II, past Sertain and Wolff, and then to the silver towers of Gromatch's old port. There I booked passage on the tramp trader Dipper Lass, which carried us through the Scorpion Cluster and down King Ampteps' belt, with stops to see the Golden Islands of Twilight of Tobaris. On Novecentaurs we boarded a regular Rim-bound liner which eventually brought us to the free port of Sastral on Harnlock VI, ten parsecs from Tara of the Red Suns. President Zarkos's launch was waiting there for us. I had 'grammed ahead the date of our arrival. We followed a zigzag course across the Galaxy, that child and I, he down in his freeze clse in the hold and me in first class when there was such. Around Tarsus I woke him up and introduced him to the universe. A fine lad he was, aged by biostim to a healthy fifteen cycles and with a good quick intelligence. Finally we arrived on Tara. I won my bet; Zarkos could fly. and flying he and his retainers came down from their castled peaks to meet us at the main port of Tara, the three red suns high in the sky glistening off their silvered wings done in the latest fashion. "Marvelous, marvelous," he said, his eyes widening as he saw my companion. "I never really allowed myself to believe that you could do it. But here he is. An Original. The only Original, and he's all mine." "I'm happy that you're pleased, my lord," I said, against the crisp breeze coming in from the green ocean beyond the port's southern border. "Pleased? I'm overwhelmed! Here, the rest of your pay," he handed me a credacard for the sum and I handed the lad over to two of his servants. "Goodbye, Gentlehom denJan, and many thanks." Zarkos flapped his wings a few times to get up speed and then strode off into the air. "Goodbye, Papa Jan," said the boy, his five yellow eyes misty with tears. The servants positioned themselves on either side of him and they rose in unison, the lad waving his tentacle at me. "Thanks for everything." I watched them for a few minutes, hypnotized by the beauty of their soaring forms. So that was what we all were, way back when. Why, he could fly better than they IF could! I T was just after lunch, # Dekember # that the second man came into the shop. He was a squat one, half a meter tall and six wide, with twelve thick feet, two thicker arms and a brillant metallic toga wrapped around his bulk like a shaggy red skin. "May I help you, sir?" "Yeth," he said with an interesting accent. "I understhanth that you hath procured an Original for the thzoo of Prethidend Thzarkos of Thara?" He waited a minute, unsure of himself. "And..." I interjected. "I... I altho hath a thzoo..." "I see." So I called Doc. This one will be a girl, and a pretty thing too, all blue and green and with four bright golden wings like her brother. A full-blooded #  # unmutated Terran Original little girl. How happy they must have been, way back when. They are so beautiful. And I am so ugly. Ah, well. That's life for you.  with powerful, timely, down-to-Earth pertinence to 'like it is" on Earth today! Phyllis Gotlieb's Norman Spinrad's Ron Goulart's James E. Gunn's Roberts. Richardson's factual space-science adventure of tomorrow: .# Men were for the Mother Sections -- except for the untamed Wild Ones. T he Teacher's voice droned on in the stuffy room. Jere, weary from a six hour patrol, could scarcely stay awake. Her head bobbed and Ella jabbed an elbow into her ribs. "Keep your eyes open," Ella whispered. Jere straightened with an effort and squared her shoulders. A weight of weariness was pressing down on her and she had the rebellious thought that patrolling wasn't fit work for a woman. Ella was looking disapprovingly at her, lips compressed. Jere squirmed uncomfortably, more conscious of the hard bench and the glaring light than of the Teacher's endless repetitions. At least, Jere thought, she might try to make it interesting. But the Teacher, a major, was grinding out the same line, the lesson that never changed. If Jere had heard it once, she had heard it a thousand times. All right, she thought sulkily, I believe it. It's all true. So what? The major was saying that San Francisco was entitled to free access to natural resources: oil, metals, men -- whatever was left. And that was the reason for the war. It seemed to Jere that the ThreeCornered War had been going on ever since she could remember. When it wasn't against Los Angeles and Denver, it was against Phoenix and, say, Seattle. There simply was not enough of anything left to go around -- particularly men. At # hours the class ended and the Scouts filed out of the classroom stiffly, aching from two hours on those hard benches. From the window of the small room she shared with Ella and two other girls of her section, Jere could see the bomb-shattered city spread out below. There were few lights, but the rubble was bathed in cold moonlight. To the north were the towers that the older women claimed once supported a bridge across the narrow mouth of the bay. In the west, the ruins of what had once been Oakland glowed with an eerie radioactive incandascence. "Bomber's moon tonight," Ella said uneasily.  "Denver has no planes," Jere replied, slipping off her uniform blouse. "They have missiles," Ella declared. "While you were flying, a dud landed in the bay." She sniffed scornfully. "Interception was terrible." "Interception generally is." Jere lay gratefully on her hard cot and closed her eyes. But Ella stood at the window, contemplating the moonlight. "Jere," she said. "Did you hear about the men?" J men?" "The ones Captain Moira's raid captured yesterday." "How many?" "Eighteen, I think." Jere whistled softly. "Denvers?" "No. Angelinas." "That will bring a reprisal, all right. Those Los Angeles bitches won't lose eighteen men without a fight." She pursed her lips, staring at the ceiling. "Where are they now?" Ella shrugged. "In the breeder pens." She gave a short, bittersounding laugh. "We won't get any." "Men aren't for the Fighting Sections, Ella," Jere said gently. "Why aren't they?" Ella demanded. "We do all the work, take all the risks." IF "Men are for the Mother Sections, Ella," Jere said. "It's always been that way." And then, because she could see that Ella was unplacated by her answer, she added: "Pen-men are no good anyway. You've seen them." Ella sat down on her cot and kicked off her flight boots. "What would you know about it?" "Nothing," Jere admitted. "But I know some Mother Section people who've had wild ones. They say they are much handsomer." "Savages," Ella said. "Some of them can't even be tamed. They have to be killed. Pen men are better." "Maybe." Jere stretched and closed her eyes again. Once, when she was still a young girl, she remembered that she had had dreams about a world in which there was a man for each woman -- a strange sort of world without ruins or missiles or Three-Cornered War. It had been pleasant to dream like that, but she had told someone -- she couldn't remember now who -- and Psych Section had taken her into analysis and explained the dreams away. It was always dangerous, they told her, to dream like that. Such ideas, even in sleep, endangered the Matriarchy. For three months she had gone to sleep with a somnoteacher whispering to her. The dreams had never came back, though she remembered them. , T he undulating wail of the attack alarm interrupted her drowsing reverie. A harsh voice crackled from the wall speaker. "Radarplot has picked up jetcrajt a hundred miles south of the city. All Interception Section pilots man their planes. All Scout Section pilots stand by to assist. Mother Sections to shelter.' "So Denver has no planes," Ella said breathlessly, pulling on her boots. "Angelinas, dear," Jere said, getting to her feet. "They have Beenine Ones. Damn them, anyway." In the far distance the flak guns began their usual futile hacking at the sky. The whine of jets warmdecks filled the city. Ella and Jere ran down the corridors crowded with women toward the hangar deck. From the Mother Section areas, a great sobbing and shrieking filled the building with noise. Far underground, the precious men were herded into deep shelters. On the hangar deck there was some measure of order. Interceptors were being trundled out to the flight deck and a few ground-toair missiles were being readied. The two-seat scout craft were being refueled and armed. Jere found her own ship near the end of the line. Her radar operator, a thin-faced girl with dark stringy hair showing beneath her helmet, was standing by. "Are we fueled. May?" Jere asked, struggling into her flight gear. "They haven't fixed the tail gun," May said unhappily. "Is it the Angelinas, Miss Jere? Oh, Mother! I was afraid it would be them ever since I heard about the men. Those Angelinas really fight, they do." "We'll do all right. May," Jere said with an assurance she did not really feel. She was thinking about the multiple pom-pom guns on the Beenine Ones. "Those airplanes are old as the hills." May cast a doubting eye at the scarred flank of their own machine. "So are ours," she said sourly. T he steady firing of the flak guns ceased as the first flight of interceptors took the air. The silence was thick. Then the thin, whispering noise of the Beenine Ones came down on the waiting city. Jere estimated there were at least five of them. "Why are we always fighting. Miss Jere?" May demanded suddenly. "Bombing and stealing and fighting all the time -- " "I'm sorry. Miss Jere," May said. "I didn't mean to talk like that. I'm nervous, I guess -- " "All right," Jere said. "We both know better than to ask questions like that. Thank the Mother there wasn't anyone from Security Section to hear you or I'd be riding without radar tonight. Let's forget it." "Thank you. Miss Jere," May said heavily.  Scout Section aircraft stand by to support interception.' The words of the Flight Controller came from the wall speakers, cutting through the clanger of the hangar deck. "Interception flubbed it again," May said bitterly. As though to accent her words, there came the sound of explosions in the distance. "Along the Embarcadere," Jere said. "Damn them!"  Blue Scout Section scramble!" the speaker shrieked. This is a bad one, Jere thought. The Angelinas were really seething tonight. "We'll be next. May," Jere said. "We can't wait for the gun. Get aboard." she could see Ella's red-winged craft moving into the catapult. There was a Jet of steam, glowing blue-white from the engine, and then Ella was gone, climbing into the night. Overhead a fission bomb flared, sun-bright at seventy thousand feet. It etched the city in light. IF blotting out the moon. Jere wondered how many fission bombs the attackers were carrying, and whether they were new bombs or weapons found in some ancient stockpile. Her practiced eyes flicked over the battered instrument panel. The turbine was vibrating badly but there was not a machine shop in San Francisco capable of repairing it to original specifications and the motor itself was nearly a hundred years old. It dated from the time before the Three-Cornered War, a time when there were still men who could fly and work and fight. The old women said they did not fight other cities in those days; . Jere wondered if such a time had ever really been. The Teachers said the Matriarchy had always existed. Yet the legend was that once there had been as many men as women and that the men had been the rulers. It seemed impossible. Those softfleshed breeders? The old women claimed it was so, swore it by the Mother. They told of a greater war that had decimated the male population until there were so few that women had to fight for them. Breed or die. The cause -- We fight, all right, Jere thought bitterly. We fight for a handful of men, even though half of them are sterile or breed monsters and have to be destroyed. We fight for a puddle of uncontaminated water. a pile of hard coal, a half-ruined factory or a barren field. Red Flight scrambler The command drove the rebellious thoughts from her mind and she rolled the jet forward toward the gaping mouth of the hangar and the catapult. Her lips moved silently in the short prayer she had used before battle since girlhood. Mother, protect your daughter Jere, defend our city, give us vietory and fertility and unmarked young -- A S she emerged onto the catapult deck, Jere could see the waterfront burning. The sight brought a surge of hatred for the women in the bombers. The catapult crew was signaling for her to rev up. She throttled the uneven engine with a practiced hand. "Ready, May?" she asked into the intercom. The girl's reply came back, scratchy and indistinct. "Ready, miss. I wish we had the gun, though; I really do." "Don't worry about it now," Jere snapped. "How's the radar?" "I have power, miss," May said. The Red Flight leader was on the starboard catapult, now vanishing down the deck, spitting sparks from her half-tuned engine. Jere saw her ship vanish below the level of the runway and dip into the canyons between buildings. She held her breath until she saw the glowing jet-trail of the airplane clear of obstructions and climbing. The catapult officer, was waiting for Jere's signal. The engine was not developing full power, but Jere gave the signal anyway. The jet picked up speed with a rush. The dim blue lights at the end of the runway hurtled under the sharply swept back wings and they were airborne, banking low over the burning Embarcadero and swinging out over the dark waters of the bay. Jere set the airplane into maximum climb configuration and turned back over the city. "Any contact. May?" Jere asked. "I have them, miss. They're at seventy thousand feet, heading two four five degrees. Probably making another bomb run." That's exactly what they're doing, Jere thought. Trying to get the breeding houses and the men in the shelters. What they couldn't keep, they would destroy if they could. A streak of fire fell out of the sky. An interceptor shot down. Jere felt the hot anger of battle. This world, she thought, this bleak world is my world. Maybe things were different once, but this is what it was like now. Women were born to fight, not dream -- "Fly zero five one," May said. heading, still climbing. The moonlight was taking on the pecuflight. The altimeter needle touched # feet. Contrails of ice streamed from the wingtips. "Change course to zero five five," May said through the interphone. "I have four bogies." Jere banked the jet until the gyro held steady on the new "Nothing, Miss Jere," May's voice said in the helmetphones. "We might just be the only ones up here except Aem." From the misty moonlit earth below, a trio of rocket trails came streaking up and past them. There was a fiery blast as a great bomber disintegrated above and ahead of their track. "Oh, Mother," May said. "They actually hit something." "That will shake them up," Jere said with satisfaction. Pieces of the burning bomber spiraled down, spinning and fluttering like a fiery rain. Jere zigzagged the jet skillfully to avoid them. "We're up with them, miss," May said. "You can pick them up on your screen now -- if you can get it working." The tiny radarscope in Jere's cockpit flicked on and the bombers were there, three of them now. IF etched in green light. Jere centered them on the grid and armed the wing rockets. "Closing," Jere reported. "I'll be on the guns," May said. The altimeter needle hovered near seventy thousand feet. The sky was black as pitch and the stars and moon glittered like jewels. Ahead, Jere caught a glimpse of metal flanks and the bluish glow of the Beenine Ones' Jets. Far, far below there was a sudden fireball and a rising mushroom of flame. The bombers banked away toward the south. "That was a bad one," May whispered in a choked voice. "Oh, that was really a bad one." Mother damn them, damn them, Jere thought. We try to live and they come up here with their bombers and their raiding -- S HE was thinking of the heavy women of the Mother Sections cowering in the shelters as she triggered the first salve of rockets, watching them burning out of the pods and rushing away and down. "Missed," May reported. "Just to the right and low." Jere closed further on the fleeing bombers and armed her second salvo. There were flashes up ahead and the wobbly trail of tracers streaking past at unbelievable speeds. The pom-pom guns on the bombers searched for the pursuing jet. May had swung the turret around, forgetting about the useless tailgun. She was firing over Jere's head at the dark shapes ahead. The cockpit was filled with the odor of cordite and the airframe vibrated to the heavy thudding of the #mm guns. Jere centered in her grid the last bomber in the line ahead and pressed the trigger. Rockets raced out and vanished into the glow of the bomber's engines. The Beenine One turned into a blob of oily fire and began to break up. A kill, Jere thought exultantly. "Parasite fighter, miss!" May shouted. A tiny jet had left the parent bomber and was somewhere behind them. Jere's mouth went dry; she pulled the scout around in a tight turn. The wingtips stalled and she lost speed and altitude correcting. Small fireballs flashed past her cockpit. The parasite was closing in from behind and Jere knew she could not shake free. She felt suddenly very tired, her movements of the controls were leaden, hopeless. She heard the crash of metal tearing and the whine of pressure escaping from the cockpit. "Miss! Help me, Jere -- I'm hit!" "May!" No reply. Jere shoved the nose of the airplane down into a slanting dive. The parasite followed. An explosive shell burst on the wingtip. The jet buffeted and began to spiral steeply. Mother, protect your daughter J ere --  The cockpit was filled with smoke and wisps of flame. "May! Eject!" There was no reply. Jere cast off the shoulder harness and twisted around to look back. She saw nothing but fire. She braced against the back and fired the ejection seat. The sudden cold took her breath away. She was falling. She remembered the ribbon chute streaming out. Then nothing. sunlight. There was grass under her and for a time she didn't realize what it was. She had never before been out of the city except while flying. A man squatted by her side; a man unlike any Jere had ever seen. She thought -- a wild one. He was burned dark from the sun and he was dressed in rough clothes made of animal skins. His face was black-bearded and across his bare shoulders rested a rifle of archaic design. "We heard the fight last night," he said. Jere did not reply. Her hands touched the pockets of her flight suit. Nothing had been taken. The flight chart was still folded at her thigh, the packet of emergency rations was at her hip. The man had gathered up her parachute and rolled it into a pack. "You mama's girls are really making a mess of things, you know," the man said. Jere ignored that and sat up. "Where is this place." "Near Saratoga." "What's Saratoga?" "It used to be a town. He shifted easily on his haunches. He was a young man and his movements had a wild thUig's litheness. "How far from the city?" Jere asked. He smiled, showing sharp white teeth through the dark bush of his beard. "What city?" "San Francisco, of course," Jere said, frowning. "Did you take me for an Angelina?" "You all look alike to me," he said, amused. "How far?" Jere asked again. "Sixty miles maybe. Depends on how you go." "Can you read a map?" Jere asked. The man laughed. "I think so." Jere took the chart from her pocket. "Then show me." The man moved nearer. He had a strange, wild smell. His finger tapped the open chart. "Here," he said. "Here's where we are. And here -- " He moved his finger to the west, to a spot in the mountains where one of the ancient roads crossed a stream. "Here is where we are going." IF Jere drew away. "I must get back," she said. "Yes? Why?" Jere stood up and looked down at the still squatting man. What would this savage know about a woman's duty? It would be useless to explain. The man said carelessly, "You can't get back. There's no way through the mines and the wire." ci ing Section people knew the path through the defenses. The Teachers saw to that Pilots who crashed and survived needed to know. The man shook his head. "Women," he said. "You've done a great job, you have. You've shut yourself up in the cities and with all the fighting you do, no one can get near enough to change things." He stood up and looked appraisingly at Jere. "You fight mostly over men, don't you?" "Men," Jere said. "Not wild animals." The man picked a blade of green grass and put it between his lips. "You may have something there," he said. "But seems to me you're missing a bet. There are men about, even if they are a bit on the woolly side. Men who would like to get things started again." He showed his teeth in a savage kind of smile. Jere had been listening to him. conscious of the strange and archaic accent of his speech, and now she could Jeel his looking at her. Her skin goose-pimpled. "Like the old days," Jere said scornfully. "The old days weren't so bad, I hear tell," the man said. "I know men didn't do such a good job of running the world, but you women.haven't done even as well." "We survive," Jere said. "So do we," the man said. "And our women are women. In the cities they tell you men are no good, don't they?" Jere did not reply. "Sure they do. Because there aren't enough to go around." Jere said, "I don't have to listen to this." The man stood beside her. "The hell you don't," he said. Jere stared at him. "Because, little mama's girl, you belong to me now. I found you." Jere said incredulously, "You're insane." "I must be," he said, showing his teeth again, "even to think about taking another city woman. You fighters are all devils to get along with, but I've done it before and I guess I can do it again." " ' -- another city woman -- '?" Jere was too stunned to say more. "I have three wives. You'll be the fourth. Two of them are from Phoenix. They were shot down raiding Frisco. I found them and patched them up. They were hell on wheels for a while, but they learned. Life isn't so bad out here, you know. We get along. And some day there will be enough of us men to go back to the cities or what's left of them and make you crazy dames quit bombing each other all to hell." "Mother!" Jere backed away from him and turned to run, but he moved so swiftly that she hardly knew what struck her. There was a stinging pain across her face that brought the tears to her eyes and his hand was on her wrist. "You'll learn, too," he said with that white smile. "Now come along like a good girl." he had shown her on the map was a day and a half's journey. HeJiad been hunting when he found her. She followed him in a daze, stumbling along over her on the ground. He went slowly. Out of concern for her? By nightfall they had arrived at the lower reaches of the stream. The water, to her surprise, was uncontaminated. She watched while he stripped and bathed -- always with his rifle near at hand. "Now you," he said. Jere bathed in the cold water while he sat on the bank looking at her. He shot a brace of small birds, a variety unknown to Jere, who had seen only the ugly seagull mutations that infested the city. She ate the sweet flesh as the sunlight faded from the sky. "You're being a sensible girl," he said approvingly. "There's no use fighting the inevitable. You'll like it, living free. No crazy women trying to bomb you. No playing soldier. It's a good life out here." "Why don't the men come back to the cities?" Jere asked, thinking of the strength it would give San Francisco to have a few men like this one in the pens. "Why, first off, there are the defenses. I suppose we could manage them if we wanted to work all together. But mainly it's because we don't have many weapons and there aren't very many of us." He grinned at her in the firelight. "We wouldn't take to being a natural resource much, though I guess there's worse ways to earn you keep. But some of us are sterile from the radiation, too. You know they'd never keep a sterile man alive in the cities. Breed or die, isn't that what they teach you?" Jere nodded slowly. "In my settlement we have hundred and sixty men. We get along, take care of ourselves and our women -- " pound, "ow many men did you say?" IF He laughed. "A hundred and embers. "Isn't this better, Jere?" sixty." "Of course." A hundred and sixty men, a "You'll be all right." wealth of men, if only half of them "I'll be all right, were breeders. Jere stared at the She could hear him laughing fire. quietly and saying with gentle de"Our settlement will grow into a risiveness, "Mama's girl -- mama's town one day," the man Said, girl." "And we won't have to hide from Gently he took her into his arms, the city raiders then. And after then we'll all get together and go J listening to his heavy, regular back to the cities and stop all this breathing. The stars that peeped fighting. Things will be different, through the dark boughs overhead Maybe you and I won't live to see seemed closer than she had ever it, but our children will, that's seen them. sure." She twisted onto her side to The firelight flickered and look at him. He slept, satiated, danced. Our children, Jere She looked away, and sat up, rethought. Our children. She said membering. softly, "It's a strange dream." Presently, she covered herself He moved closer to her. The against the cold and got to her smell of him was disturbing, unknees, reaching, familiar. A hundred and sixty The map. Yes. It was there. The men -- settlement. That too. She sat, not moving, while he She knelt' for a time, not movtouchedher. Mother, Mother -- " ing. Thinking. Remembering. "Don't fight me," he said. Things could be different. The Jere closed her eyes. He was men. surprisingly gentle. She could feel She stood up now, a small, taut his beard against her face. It was figure in the darkness. The man not harsh as she had thought it stirred, opened his eyes, would be, but soft. Very soft. "Jere -- ?" "You've never had a man." Men were careless. Men should Jere, her eyes still closed, shook be cared for. her head slowly. She leveled the rifle and fired. "You'll see." The man arched his back and She said, whispering, "My made a hurt sound. 'Jere fired name is Jere." again. The shot echoed, died. He laughed as the night grew A hundred and sixty men. One darker and the fire fell to a bed of hundred and sixty -- Dawn was breaking as Jere gathered her gear and began walking. She was thinking: A raiding party Mother, protect your daughter Jere, forgive your daughter Jere, defend our city, make us strong -- California. Guest of Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest of Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California #I .  October #-November #, #. consin, Green Bay. The Secondary Universe is open to the first # registrants (# fee); the Tolkien Conference is open to all (# fee if not a member of the Tolkien Society of America). For information: Ivor A. Rogers, University of Wisconsin -- GB, Green Bay, Wisconsin #.  A hundred and sixty men. No, a hundred and fifty-nine. Still a triumph. As she walked, she tried to remember. What was it he had kept calling her? Oh, yes. So right. Mama's girl. At Warwick Hotel, #th and Locust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal speaker will be Anne McCaffrey. Membership: #. For information: Tom Purdom, # Cedar Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #.  Hilton Inn, San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests of Honor: Miriam Allen de Ford and E. Hoffman Price. Fan Guest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: # now, # after January #st, # at the door. For information: Quinn Yarbro, # Columsa ##, Berkeley, California #.  Andrews Hotel, Minneapolis. For information: Jim Young, # Ulysses Street, N.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota #.  Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: #. For information and registration: Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York #. IF Willy Lev The Conquest of the Land things are in evidence there is might be a better word -- to climb one that has always held a special out of the water and settle on fascination for experts as well as land. We can still see every day laymen. Every vacationer who what happens in the littoral zone, ever walked barefoot along a Here a jellyfish, thrown ashore by beach knows it though he may a wave, has succumbed, its watery not know its technical name. It is body already disintegrating. There the "littoral zone" -- from Latin a sea star is still struggling; its littorae, which means "shores." tougher body can stand exposure When used by a zoologist, the to the air for a longer period, term "littoral zone" means the Some crabs,' though water-breathstretch of land between the highers, expose themselves to the air the sand spits and boulders that scavenging is good in the littoral show at low ebb even though they zone. are still surrounded by water. All it needs fs a change of the It was, of course, in the littoral life forms involved and you have a picture of the littoral zones of the Cambrian period. The one and major problem is that we are likely to have a somewhat biased picture of what the Cambrian life forms were -- because the various inhabitants of the waters near the littoral zone do not fossilize equally well. The chances that a clamshell will fossilize are excellent -- they are still reasonably good for a crab -- but ihty are poor for a worm and negligible for a jellyfish. The situation reminds me of a walk along the shores of one of the many lakes in the vicinity of Berlin when I was a student. There were three of us, all budding naturalists, and we did not stay together. I lingered in a swampy area to watch dragonflies and frogs. The others walked ahead. When we met again and discussed what we had seen, somebody over: hearing our conversation might easily have concluded that we had taken three different walks. I reported that a frog, disturbed by my approach, waited for an average of a little less than a minute before it cautiously stuck its head out of the water again. One of my two companions described an especially luxuriant specimen of Sagittaria sagittifolia (a waterloving plant with arrow-shaped leaves) and told that at this or that place forget-me-nots grew in such profusion that they looked like a blue lawn. The third recited a list of all the birds he had seen and all the bird-calls he had identified. What had been personal bias on that occasion is replaced by the bias of the fossil record when Cambrian life forms are under discussion. Open any book, professional or popularized, to the chapter on the Cambrian period and you see trilobites, trilobites and then some more trilobites. Wasn't there any profusion of other life? T he name itself is actually the result of a mistake. Fossil trilobites had been found in various ancient rocks and learned men had called them concha triloba -- the three-lobed clam. In appearance they looked somewhat like the so-called sow-bugs that scurry away when you pick up a flat stone. Some don't run but curl up and it was soon noticed, once people started paying attention to fossils, that there were curled-up trilobites. Did this mean they were insects? It has to be borne in mine that before # the word "insect" had a much wider meaning than now. When Carolus Linnaeus (#), the great classifier of both plants and animals, came to the creatures with jointed appendages, he created the class Insecta. In # George Leopold Dagobert, Baron de Cuvier (#-#), toIF day known as the "father of paleontology," decided that thi was too big a pigeonhole. He separated the Crustacea (crabs of all kinds) into a separate class. One year later Jean Baptiste, Chevalier de Lamarck (#-#), designated eight-legged Arachnida (spiders and scorpions) as still another class, restricting the term "insects" to six-legged beetles, flies, butterflies, dragon flies, etc. Today the group Linneaus called Insec ta is the phylum Arthropoda (joint-footed) with the classes Crustaceans (crabs). Arachnids and centipedes) and the true Insects. To go back to the question of whether the trilobites were "insects," it has Just been explained that they could have been quite a number of different things if the word insect was used in the Linneaen sense. But at least one man, the British geologist Shaw, thought them to be true insects, namely caterpillars. The problem was that nobody knew whether they had legs or not. Shaw reasoned that the legs, if any, must be preserved in the curled-up specimens. He secured a large number of them (nearly #) and sliced through each. There were a number of doubtful cases, but # specimens clearly showed legs. Shaw had just published his findings when better fossil specimens were exhumed that revealed clearly the presence of many pairs of legs. There could be no doubt any more that the trilobites had been anthropods. Since they had had more than three pairs of legs and had, as proved by other evidence, been water-living, certainly they had not been true insects. easy to say, however. The trilobites became extinct early in earth's history and living arthropods show no resemblance to them except a superficially similar shape, as in the case of the sowbugs. There is just one exception. The horseshoe crab Limulus, just before hatching, has a faint trilobite aspect. It so happens that Limulus is a very old (and odd) creature that succeeded in surviving through about half a dozen geological periods, so that a relationship is at least possible. In spite of the name horseshoe crab, Limulus is an arachnid, related to the spiders. The simple fact is that the trilobites do not fit into any classification of living animals. The trilobite world was different, and the neatly separated classes of our time had yet to emerge. The trilobites combined characteristics of arachnids and crustaceans and -- since the later insects must have had precursors in forms that were not yet insects -- even a few faint insectlike characteristics. In size the trilobites ranged from halfinch specimens to giants about a foot in length. Quite a number had remarkably large eyes. The guess is that this was an adaptation to muddy waters near river mouths rather than to a nocturnal existence. The question of what they ate, of course, is tied up with the question of what was around for them to eat. One likely victim, for which we have fossil evidence, was the annelid (segmented) worm. The common earthworm is the variety best known to landlubbers but other kinds still swarm in all the seas. The picture of trilobites, as numerous then as shrimps are now, burrowing in bottom mud to hunt burrowing worms appears as a kind of prelude to the conquest of the land. Hunter as well as hunted are both in a mixture of water and land; at one time one is going to try to escape into what is merely wet land and the other is going to follow. That trilobites did crawl around on land during the latter part of the Cambrian period was proved for the first time, to my knowledge, by the American paleontologist Charles D. Walcott. He found them in the so-called Potsdam sandstone -- dating back to the Upper Cambrian period -- of New York State and adjacent areas in Canada. He published his findings in # Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. #), ascribing the tracks to the trilobite genus Protichnites, for which he had counted a total of # pairs of legs! Such a series of feet would make varied and complex series of tracks that would differ in depth, definition and details of grouping with the varying degree of consistency and hardness of the surface... I have fine trilobite trails made on the surface of sandy mud that show the imprint of a considerable portion of the legs. On a hard surface the animal touched only the extremities of the legs, but on a muddy surface the terminal joint would sink in and other joints would leave an impression... So wrote Walcott. In # he published another report titled Appendages of Trilobites (same publication, Vol. #) in which he described trilobite tracks of a greater age. They came from Middle Cambrian layers of the Colorado Grand Canyon region. T he trilobite tracks were comparatively easy but other Cambrian tracks from Canada, IF Logan, were a challenging puzzle. One sandstone slab from Bidwell's Crossing (Essex County, New York) measures # feet in length and # feet in width, showing # tracks. Each is about # inches wide, with a length up to # feet. The tracks look like a miniature ladder with an oval impression measuring # by # inches at one end. The farmer, B.H. Palmer, who first noticed the fossil on his property, was convinced that the responsible creatures had been giant snakes and was dismayed because he could not find an explanation in his Bible. Well, they certainly were not snakes, but what were they? Sir tracks might be those of large marine snails. Later scientists, after some hesitation, agreed. It must be mentioned that among the tracks that end in an oval impression can be found such impressions without a track to go with them. The accepted explanation is that a wave threw a number of the large sea slugs on the shore. Some of them died immediately, leaving the oval impression where their bodies had decomposed. The others crawled for some distance, but succumbed before they reached the water. In any case, it has become clear that during the Cambrian period not only trilobites abounded but also annelid worms and large marine slugs. In addition the remains of small crustaceans other than trilobites have been found, as well as impressions of jellyfish that expired ashore. The existence of echinoderms (sea urchins, sea though fine fossils of these types are more frequent later -- in Silurian and Devonian deposits. But except for short excursions by trilobites, no land-life yet. According to the fossil record, the conquest of the land must have taken place after the Cambrian period. The handbooks are silent about the Ordovician period that immediately followed the Cambrian. But things begin to take an interesting turn during the aforesaid Silurian and Devonian periods, which followed the Ordivician and had a combined duration One event -- without any influence, incidentally, on the future of evolution -- was the appearance of enormous water-living arachnids, the sea scorpions. Eurypterus, from Silurian deposits of the island of Oesel (now Saaremaa) in the Baltic is the oldest known. It grew to an overall length of # feet. The Devonian Pterygotus from the red sandstone of Scotland (the quarry workers, when they come across one, pass the word through the foreman that they found another "seraphim") reached more than # feet in length.-portant event was the appearance of the first fishes, the earliest animals with backbones. These did indeed influence the course of evolution, and profoundly. Of course, they had to have ancestors. And it so happens there is a living form that at least hints how those ancestors must have been constructed. The animal in question is about # inches long and looks so much like a slug that its first discoverer, the physician Peter Simon Pallas, believed it to be one. About sixty years after the discovery, that is to say around the year #, Johannes Muller recognized that it was related to the vertebrates and a few decades later the evolutionists made it famous under the name of Amphioxus. As far as I know, no fossil relative of Amphioxus has been found even though one could have turned up anywhere in geological history aher the Cambrian. The most primitive fossil fish known is probably Birkenia from the Upper Silurian of Scotland. There early fishes were finless, except for a tailfin, as are the living lampreys. Interestingly enough Birkenia, again like the lampreys, shows eight round gill openings arranged in a straight line. By the time Birkenia was swimming around, other types of fishes had appeared. Most did not live beyond the Carboniferous period. The most unusual of these types, technically the Antiarchi, were fully armored with bony plates -- one wonders against what contemporaries. An important point is that the other ancient fishes were found in marine deposits while Birkenia comes from freshwater deposits. By the end of the Silurian period the oceans probably had grown salty, though to a lesser degree than they are now. If there was a differentiation between saltwater and freshwater fishes one can easily assume there also was a differentiation between saltwater and freshwater plants. Somehow it seems likely that freshwater plants, rather than saltwater ones, invaded land. Freshwater varieties could climb a river's banks, first partly exposed to the air and then wholly so except for the roots that remained in wet ground. We don't have fossils of such plants. They probably rotted away completely after they died. But we do have fossils of a very early forest that grew in a river delta near the beginning of the Devonian period. The fossil trees turned up in the Catskills not far from New York City in # and #I when excavations for a dam cut into the old river deposits. The existence of definite land plants for the early Devonian is documented by these finds. As for Devonian land animals IF there is no documentation yet; a so-called three-toed footprint from the Devonian of Warren County, Pennsylvania, first described by Othniel C. Marsh in #, is a very doubtful case. It could be almost anything, including the impact of a windblown piece of dead wood from a tree. The first animals to venture on land were probably arthropods, to be followed by some freshwater fishes. Even now there are several kinds of fishes that come out of the water of their own volition. A much publicized recent example is the "walking catfish" that infests some areas of Florida. A strange track, consisting of two parallel lines of straight impressions, is known from Nova Scotia. The description by H. M. Ami (published in # in Halifax) concluded: "They were evidently made by some fn or spinelike appendage attached to the body of the organism, which may have been that of an acanthodian or other early form of fish existing in the early Devonian lake, sea or estuaries of Nova Scotia." The Devonian period, then, is the time when the land was invaded by living things which, however, still stayed close to water (Because of its merit, and in tribute to his memory, IF is completing publication of this work, Willy Ley's last.) Whatever happeDed tPunKPewD? In # issues in #-# it established an undying reputation for jaunty, mordant fantasythen perished in the wartime paper shortage. Much of the good stuff from Unknown has been picked up and republished, but there are still some goodies, and Berkley has got hold of a few. For instance, Norvell Page's wild Presber: XI #, #C). And, this month, the on, we'll be doing two of the absolute Unknown classics by L. Ron Hubbard one volume. Also in October... (X#, # (X#, #... andNovomher (X#, # (X#, # If your newsstand or bookstore is out of stock, order any of these (list price plus a dime postage) from: # Madison Ave., N. Y., N.Y. # In rapid seiVice shorthand I voced the figures scrawled on my pad into a detailed report for Lincoins exec. Detailed, maybe, is the wrong word. We had no instruments aboard the alien ship. There was nothing to see in the dimly lit lock. And feelings are something you can't transmit in the pulses of sub-voc code. We had all sensed part of it when the jarring clang of alarms had brought us to Lincolns bridge. The feeling had been there when the dark shape had blotted out Alpha Centauri. Beth Rainer had moved close to' me, had touched my arm. We had stared a long moment at the golden spiral circled in black on the alien hull -- a great, blazing galaxy hinting at unknown empires. Beth, her eyes held by the dark ship, had said, "Jake -- Jake, I'm cold." And she had said all there really was to say. "Lieutenant?" Grier was above me. Grange stood back near the far wall. ""Lincoln get all that, Jake?" I nodded. "Tom acknowledged -- I'm keeping open so he can monitor. We'll have to give him what visual he gets. They're letting sound out but there are still no pictures." Grier frowned. "Figures. I'd do the same if they were on Lincoln. Keep the visitors busy enough so nobody gets nervous -- but don't get careless." He eased himself down on the lock's deck and leaned against the smooth wall. I sent a short, quick sub-voc to Lincoln: Tom -- nothing doing yet. We wait. Sharp lines of tension etched Grier's face. Strained patches of white limned Johnny's mouth. And similar signs on me, I was sure. As the captain had suggested, the aliens' delay might or might not be a bit of practical psychology. Whatever it was -- it worked. Seconds have a way of becoming hours when imagination is the most solid reference point around. We were invited -- affirmative. That open port and steady blink had been plain enough. But an invitation's no guarantee of how the party's going to work out. The old unknown, then. A simple enough challenge. How could we resist? "Okay -- easy does it." I followed Grier's eyes to the far wall. A wide port whispered aside where no port had been before. Grange gave a low whistle. I could see his point. It looked as if we'd stumbled into the alien equivalent of the Royal Barge. I glanced at Grier. He was viewing the whole scene with a cold eye. The corridor stretched thirty feet from the open port. The walls on either side were sculptured in a dark, polished wood -- alien patterns intertwined in complex detail to meet in a vaulted ceiling over our heads. The floor was carpeted in muted tones of mottled gold. It resembled nothing I could remember seeing before, still -- I kneeled for a closer look and the hackles climbed the back of my neck. I had forgotten I was aboard a ship that stopped at unknown ports among the stars, places where beasts with pelts that size might "Jake," Grier asked, "are your eyes any better than mine? One Christmas tree bulb would flood supposed to be another door down there or just more decoration?" I squinted. The corridor seemed to end in the same sculptured wood as the walls. The dim amber light would obscure any indentation farther than a few feet away. Grier let out a breath. "Okay. Let's get on with it." He turned away quickly but I caught a hint of something behind his steady gaze. His alertness was not too hard to figure -- we were all very much aware of the fiction of our open line to Lincoln. The contact was comforting unless you thought too much about it -- how it was as tenuous and as easily cut as a strand of thread. Earth is new in space, a child at the edge of its crib. Lincoln bounds and venture into the dark beyond Pluto. We had no misconceptions about the alien ship that darked Lincoln. Wherever it came from, it had not been confined by the slow velocity of light -- it had eaten the years between the stars. the sculptured walls that marked the corridor's end. "I'm fighting an irresistible urge," I told Johnny Grange, "to turn around and see if that door behind us is still open. I'll be damned if I'll give in to it." Grier scowled at me. "Don't," he said simply. He laid a hand on the smooth wood, running his fingers along polished curves, pressing the surface at several likely-looking points. I gave him a hand, leaning into the wall and testing it with various random pressures. "They've got their own way of doing things, skipper," I said. "Maybe it's the old Oriental patience bit." Grange shook his head. "It's the sophomore psych bit, Jake. And why not? Works, doesn't it?" "I wonder," I said aloud without quite meaning to, "if we'd be so anxious to get in if we knew what was on the other side." The captain grinned. IF "Glad you're with us, Jake. You've brightened an otherwise dull day." "Captain -- " Grier and I jerked around. Johnny was standing back, watching a thin black line form on the polished wall. It parted. Panels slid silently aside. widened, hearts fell into stomachs. Won't do. Take a culture, years, get born into that culture and grow up in its pattern. Now go out and climb inside an alien ship and walk into a room where everything took a different direction. That same number of millions of years ago. Your heart beats a little faster -- but you don't react as you thought you would. You can't, because you need something to react to -- and it simply isn't there. Not in the room that really was not a room at all and certainly not in the alien faces and forms. They were seven -- standing together in a close huddle. Watching us from big, shining eyes like deer caught in headlights. They were human -- or near enough -- so close that the difference only magnified how far away they really were. They all stood over six feet, slender, almost no shoulders. Pale skin over sparsely covered skulls, wide cheeks, narrow nostrils. Mouths were bloodless scars. And unsmiling. One of the tallest stepped forward, stopping a good fifteen feet away. His voice was high, steadily pitched. Emora Sourain -- ... Grier glanced at me out of the side of his vision and pointed to himself. "Nathan Grier," he said, then pointed to the alien. "Emora Sourain." The tall alien shrank back. He spoke rapidly to his friends and they stared at Grier with pure loathing. Grier's face was chiseled in tone. He pulled Johnny and me together.  "What happened? If it wasn't his name, it should mean person, human, friend -- something." He cursed silently. "How does he figure I gave the wrong answer, Jake?" I shrugged. I had been glancing around the room, vocing quick descriptions back to Lincoln. The deal was anything but easy. A maroon beam extended from one side of the room to the other, eight feet off the floor. A gray, pancakesized object veined with coppercolored stripes hung from the ceiling by a thin wire. "Captain, take a look around. Maybe that's your answer. We aren't even on the same wave length. It  doesn't figure that there's nothing here that looks like anything we've ever seen before. They've got two arms, two legs and a head. They could use nearly anything on Lincoln as well as we could -- so where are the chairs and tables?" "I know," said Grier stonily. "I don't like it." I glanced back at the huddle. The head man stepped forward again -- no, he only looked like the head man. He was older, his eyes sunk deeper into his nearly hairless skull. His gaze wandered across all our faces and back again but it always stopped at Grier. "Jake," said the captain, "give me your pad and pencil. We should have thought of this in the first place." I handed him the items and he began to fill the page with symbols. He drew a planetary system around a star, a geometric bisection, an angle, addition in simple domino fashion -- the whole works. He tore off the sheet and handed it to the alien. The elder peered at the paper in Grier's hand, then squinted suspiciously at Grier himself. Finally he reached out cautiously and grabbed the paper quickly. You could chew the tension. He held the paper close to his face, stared at it, turned it over and studied the blank backside. Then he glared at us and dropped it to the floor. We watched it flutter away hopelessly. Grier swallowed hard. "So much for science. What in -- now what's he doing?" The alien had plunged a hand inside the folds of his clothing and pulled out a dark object. He clutched it tightly until the veins stood out and throbbed on his arm. He moved cautiously toward us. The head man broke from the group and grabbed the elder's fist. ""Yutevaan' he said. His voice held a strained, pleading note. "Yutevaarni ci' The elder went livid with anger. His face reddened to blackness under the amber light. he spat out, flinging the other's hand away. ""Rywai ti ci,"' The first alien trembled and shrank back. The elder composed himself, stepped right up to Grier and extended his hand. He opened the thin fist slowly. "Coromr." We looked. It was a crescentshaped piece of stone that might have come from a river or stream anywhere on Earth. Just a plain piece of stone -- black, with chips of gray. "Coromr." There was a certain plea for understanding in his eyes but his voice remained haughty, demanding. I could hear the wheels turning IF in Griet's head. He could run into trouble any way he went. If he kept quiet they might very well chop us on the spot. But any response at all had an even better chance of bringing on the same action. He did the only thing he could -- he kept his mouth shut and stood perfectly still. The alien closed his fist slowly, put the object carefully back into his clothing and kept his eyes locked on Grier. The tendons in his face tightened and his thin nostrils clamped in upon themselves, "KW,"he spat, He jerked around and stalked back to his group. I let out a deep breath. "Anyone want a loose translation of yildP."' "No," said the captain grimly, "I got that one." He glanced quickly at the aliens, then back at me. "Jake, is Tom still with us? Check. I want an acknowledgement." mediately. Grier fingered the voc on my belt, quickly instructed Buddington to run all our tapes through to the Beagle Beacon -- and gave the ominous orders to set the Beagle for an Alpha Centauri orbit and keep his finger on the button. When he finished his face was hard, ashen gray. He had let his exec know there was a good chance the Beagle was all that would ever leave the Lincoln. "All right," he said. "'I think we have maybe three minutes to find a way to get through to these people. Let's have ideas -- quick." "One more wrong idea," I began, "theirs or ours -- " Grier shook his head. "Doesn't matter. There's no question which way we go, is there, Jake? We have to connect. Speech is out. Group or self identification isn't what it ought to be. I'll forget the business with the rock -- no use wasting time on that one. What does that leave us?" "There's something very wrong about our having messed up with the symbols," said Grange. "People who build spaceships know triangles and squares and -- " "Damn it." Grier jabbed a fist into his hand. "They do know it, Johnny, but they're looking for something they figure is more basic than that -- something we haven't even considered, something -- " "Something," broke in Grange, "that they understand and we recognize they understand." Grier stared at him. He opened his mouth, then shook his head and grabbed my pad and pencil. He sketched for a moment at a furious pace, then tore x)ff the sheet and passed it to Grange. "That meet your qualifications, Johnny? Something they understand and something we know they're very much aware of." Johnny held out the paper. It was a neat copy of the big galactic spiral circled in black on the hull of the alien ship. I felt a vast sense of relief. I could see the same feeling reflected in Johnny's eyes. "Now," said Grier, "is it right? Exactly right? Jake, check with Tom -- he can see the thing. We can't afford to go second class anymore." Tom, Beth and several others joined in describing the symbol in minute detail. According to them we were as close as we could be without an actual photo of the emblem. Grier took a deep breath and stepped forward. The aliens dropped into dead silence. Then the elder raised his arm and pointed to the paper, then lowered it until his long finger pointed directly at the floor between them. The implication was all too clear. The muscles tightened visibly along the captain's back but he carefully placed his drawing on the floor and stepped away from it. The elder moved forward, picked it up without taking his eyes from us. Finally he brought it to his face and looked. He gave a sudden, sharp gasp and stared at Grier. He jerked around quickly, flinging his robes wide and thrusting the paper high above his companions' heads. 'Zarakrindi!' he shouted. The alien huddle moaned. "ZarakrindiV' he repeated, pointing with a trembling finger at the drawing. Eager hands grasped for the paper. It passed quickly through the group. The elder stepped forward again and faced Grier. His arms came up from his sides until two palms were held out openly before us. "Zarakrindi"" he said. ""Ti yasu ci Zarakrindi." A wide grin spread across his tight features. I let out a deep breath. Johnny grabbed my arm. Sweat was standing out in little beads on the captain's face but he was smiling. "Jake -- what's the word from Lincolnl You bring 'em up to date?" "Didn't have to do much, sir," I told him. "They got most of it -- and they're breathing a little easier over there, too." A dark wooden table and delicately contoured chairs appeared. Three aliens thrust glasses of cold, dark liquid into our hands. I glanced questioningly at Grier. "Drink it," he said flatly. He looked at the aliens and smiled broadly. "If they didn't probe our body chemistry in the lock, well -- qheers." IF He turned up the glass and drained it. I closed my eyes and poured the drink down quickly. It was cool, pungent, a dusty wine with a slight breath of some unworldly spice. The aliens nodded happily and downed drinks of their own. The elder offered me another glass and I reached out with a smile and froze. I could feel Grange tense beside me. Over the alien's shoulder I could see the head man entering the room from a port on the far wall. Beside him, walking with the bearing of a queen, was a woman. "Jake," the Captain said dryly, "it appears we have more in common than we thought." it -- the girl would have turned eyes anywliere on Earth. I said the similarities between the two races only magnified our differences -- and the girl was no exception. But her particular qualities magnified those differences in an entirely unexpected direction. The large dark eyes were compelling, exotic. Dark hair hung to her shoulders like thin strands of feathered silk and her narrow lips curved in a warm and secret smile. She was covered in a long, transparent sheath as delicate as a spider web and the body beneath was painted in a complex pattern of gold. She was covered in a long transus. The aliens bowed. We bowed back and the girl inclined her head. ""Zarakrindi"' said the elder. He pointed to the tiny amulet around her neck. "'Zarakrindi.'" She wore a replica of the emblem on the side of their ship, the drawing Captain Grier had drawn moments before. We smiled and nodded. The girl and the alien elder smiled and nodded back. "Now what?" Johnny asked. "Smile and nod, son," Grier said out of the corner of his mouth, "smile and nod and drink your wine." The elder looked at Grier and raised a thin brow. "T val ZarakrindiT' he asked. TivaPr He looked at Grier. Then at the girl. "Jake," said Grier, "there's not much doubt, is there?" "Nope," I said and I could feel a small, unpleasant itch in the back of my head. "Whatever she is, she's royalty of some kind -- and I've got an idea they want to know if we've got one, too." Grier's eyes bored into mine for a long moment. "Captain -- " I began. "Lieutenant. Tell Buddington I want Beth Rainer over here in ten minutes -- ten flat." "Sir -- " He shook his head. "Sorry, Jake. I don't like it either. We don't have a hell of a big choice, do we? Tell Tom I want her dolled up like a queen -- jewels, gown, the works -- and if there's any gold paint or powder sitting around in the shop, use it. And Jake -- " "Sir?" "Tell Buddington I mean now. We can't nod and smile and down white lightning all night." I didn't like it. Not at all. Beth wasn't a lot safer where she was if anything went wrong but I preferred her on the Lincoln anyway. In eight minutes, I relayed the word to the captain that Beth was on her way. Half a second later an alien messenger brought the news to the elder. He smiled at Grier, pointed to the girl, then gestured in the direction of Lincoln. ""Val ti Zarakrindi,'" he said, "r val ci." The captain nodded. It was a safe gesture for now. We had guessed right. The aliens wanted female royalty and that they would definitely get. I had quickly briefed Beth on the image she was to convey. She knew exactly what to expect -- well, all you could expect without actually being there. Buddington said her costume was something else again and Beth snapped back that it was no way for a lady to appear in public -- human or alien. "Beth -- you okay?" She was only fifty yards from the ship. "Doing fine, Jake," she said lightly. "What time do I come down the runway?" "The band's warming up, honey -- bulging eyeballs from two worlds are waiting for Breathless Beth and her -- " "Jake -- " I caught the slight break in her voice even over the sub-voc. "Jake -- I'm flat scared out of my wits." "It's okay, Beth. Everything's okay." Seconds later she was in the lock and Grange met her with a courtly bow for the benefit of alien observers. Then he signaled that  Beth and he were starting down the sculptured corridor. T om was right. Even the aliens seemed to agree Beth's costume was something else. She had pulled a coal-black bikini out of some hiding place -- I had certainly never seen it before -- and fashioned a long silver cape out of the wardroom drapes. The drapes were held together at her neck by Buddington's flashy diamond solitaire, immediately under a bright sapphire choeker I had seen Beth wear the evening before we left Earth. Finally someone in the lab had done a neat -- and quick -- job of patterning her body with a fairIF ly intricate network of gold. We had ordered royalty and Beth Rainer was an authentic Space Queen. Grier bowed. "Gracious Queen Beth," he said soberly, "if the boys at Johns Hopkins could only see you now." Johnny and I kept straight and solemn faces. Beth inclined her head gracefully"Knock if off. Mighty Captain of Space," she told him, "or I'll slug you right in the snoot." I shot a glance to our left. The aliens were taking in the Earthman's ritual with all ears. The girl could not keep her dark eyes off Beth. The elder smiled benevolently but I knew Grier, Johnny, Beth and I had the same gnawing thought -- what was going to happen if someone suddenly realized we had not the faintest idea of what was going on? Zarakrindi' said the elder, 'Zarakrindi ti -- " and the alien faction muttered agreement. He looked at us, then turned his eyes on the alien queen. "Dha ei" The girl faced Beth and bowed low. Beth glanced at Grier and Grier moved his eyes slightly downward. Beth returned the bow. The aliens approved. The alien girl turned away and laid her hand on the elder's arm. He passed her along to a guide and the two moved solemnly through a portal in the far wall. The elder turned back to us. "?, bhenei, ti Alien bearers appeared with more wine and the elder began chattering with two companions. We were abruptly left to ourselves. "Okay," Beth said shakily, "what was all that about?" I haven't the slightest," I said. "It's been a kind of nervous pattern, Beth. Strictly by ear. We could have muffed the whole thing just as easily." Beth nodded solemnly. "Do I go, too -- now that the princess has taken off?" Grier shook his head. "I don't think so. If they'd had it in mind I think we would have caught it. Sorry." He smiled. "I'm afraid you're a member of the act, Beth." Beth shrugged. "Captain," I said, "I hate to be a wet blanket but where do we go from here? Does everyone come over to our house for drinks? And after that -- what?" "You named the game, Jake," he said solemnly. "We play it by ear. Like you say, we got lucky. Now we have to hold on to it." "The sooner we call this off and get back to Lincoln -- " Johnny started, then caught himself and shut up. Grier grinned at him tiredly. "You're getting it now, Johnny. All we have to do is figure out how to say goodbye." We smiled. And nodded. And tried to keep our minds off the too obvious fact that those big shiny eyes had pretty fair sets of brains between them -- or they couldn't have launched a ship like this one. And they had to know we were very much aware of the spiral symbol on their hull -- that we were in touch with our own ship and capable of throwing Beth into the act to cover something we didn't understand at all. It was not so easy to remember we were not dealing with familiar minds -- that the same group that made no attempt to understand circles and squares fell for a phony Space Queen production. I think we knew it had worked only because they wanted very badly to have it work. Unless I was sadly mistaken, it was a little more than that. I was fairly sure they had just proven -- to themselves, at least -- the universality of their religion. And that, of course, is a pretty big plum for even aliens to pass up. nervously and I looked past her at the alien group. They were muttering excitedly to themselves. The elder smiled, then turned away from us and bowed low toward the far wall. The others hurriedly took up the cue. The wall slid aside without a sound. The aliens raised their eyes and murmured softly. In the entranceway was an intricate sculpture of the galactic emblem mounted on a circle of black. Two aliens we had not seen before wheeled it a few steps forward, then backed away. It was our first look at alien art. From a distance it seemed to be made of some pale, translucent material that glistened softly under the amber lights. The galactic center shot golden spiral arms twisting in complex curves to the edge of darkness -- and each arm was intertwined with a thousand tiny strands weaving dizzy circles through the structure. The spiral itself and the space-black circle were covered with countless pinpoints of gold. "Okay," said Grier softly. "We're still on familiar ground. Just take it slow and easy." "Zararz," said the elder. He solemnly indicated the golden emblem. He turned his head and nodded slightly. Two aliens appeared again from the far door with another wheeled black circle. It was exactly like the first. Only this one was blank. The sculpture was missing. I glanced quickly at Grier. He shrugged imperceptibly. Beth squeezed my arm tightly. Behind us Johnny whistled almost soundlessly between his teeth. An ajien much younger than the IF others stepped through the portal. He carried a long flat case of carved black wood in his arms. He held it carefully, almost reverently. The elder faced him and accepted the case. He returned the younger's bow with a slight nod. Then he walked directly toward us and handed the case to Captain Grier. H e gestured toward the empty black circle. ""Zarakrindi ti ruri,"" he said. Tiny beads formed on Grier's brow. He understood exactly what the elder had in mind and I shared his sudden, desperate sense of frustration. Everything we had done to buy precious seconds had driven us one step closer toward a final act where bluffs would not work. "All right," he said finally, "we'll have to give it a try, Jake. There's nothing else for it, is there?" He spoke to me but his eyes never left the elder. His voice was deadly calm. "The box," he said. "It's fairly heavy. It probably holds tools of some kind, hopefully something I'll recognize. Where the materials are, I can't guess." "Captain," predicted Johnny, "they'll show up. They know damn well we didn't lug art supplies over here." The captain chuckled softly. Beth laid her hand on his arm and stepped forward after the elder. The elder looked pleased. Grier and Beth stopped a few feet from the far wall, between the blank circle and the golden spiral. Johnny and I moved up a few steps behind them. The sculpture seemed a less than hopeless design now, its twisting patterns not impossibly complex -- but the touch of an alien hand was even more startlingly evident. The elder smiled softly and spoke to Grier in such muted tones only a whisper of his voice reached Johnny and me. Grier listened but his eyes never strayed from the golden spiral. Something bothered him, I knew. It was something I sensed, too. There was a raw, primitive, almost pagan aura about the spiral that started the hackles rising on the back of my neck. I felt I was on the brink of remembering something I didn't really want to remember at all. And then, quite suddenly, both of us knew. Maybe seconds apart. It was all there. Something we had left behind us a thousand years ago had come from the stars to find us again. Then Grier moved. He jerked around swiftly and shoved Beth behind him. His palm struck out and chopped sharply against the elder's throat. Beth sprawled between us. I dropped quickly to the right and rolled toward her. Grier crouched low, moving away from the fallen alien, the black box a short club in his hand. He crabbed quickly to the left to reach her and a green flicker of light flicked across the room and brushed once against his chest. He folded quietly into a motionless bundle. The long case rain of yellow blades and razored curves and a thousand golden pins. I reached Beth, passed her, scooped up a sharp sliver, of gold and wondered if I had the second I needed to do her the last favor I could. A pencil of green brushed my arm and I heard Johnny Grange sigh and drop behind me. Beth's pale fist was tight against her lips. Her eyes were locked in final fear on the space-black circles. One that belonged to her and one that held the tortured curves and twisted strands that had been stars away. I moved, my hand flashing sharp and golden, and met her eyes for a quick second before green blinked in an alien hand and reached out to find me.  The next revolution of Gordon Dickson's novel novella of two alien worlds in collision -- one of the them Man's: Barry Malzberg's final word on the paradox of time travel: Norman Spinrad's comment on Man's betrayal of his own survival -- and his holiest instincts: also John Brunner  Richard Wilson  Keith Laumer  Willy Ley  Lester del Rey and others! The magdzine of alternatives! # ' IF managed to remain one of the real Big Name Fans of science fiction for more than thirty years without seeming to stir up any rancor or indulging in fan feuds. He has gone on writing for almost every fanzine with patience and care year after year, never giving any sign that he considered himself an important man in the field. He has attended a few science-fiction functions but most who think they know him well have never met him. He has been called the Hermit of Hagerstown (Maryland) but the appellation is improper -- he has proven a cordial host on numerous occasions. All this while Harry has been quietly observing the scene and collecting more information about major events than most of their participants knew was available. Now he has written a book about the decade from # to # -- All Our Yesterdays, by Harry Warner (Advent, #). More than any other book dealing with the fannish background of our field, this is a singularly honest and objective study. Harry offers his own judgments at times -- but always cautiously and against a documented background of facts that lets the reader form his own opinions. I took part in many of the events chronicled and find no errors worth mentioning. Nor do I find evidence of bias that could interfere with the unPlease turn to page #) dawn was strange and misty. His war wound throbbed. He seemed to have fatigued and aged during the night, -- even his clothes, business suit and shoes, shirt and tie. were worn, all but used up, and he needed a haircut. Dressed, he looked through his bedroom window. The good suburban neighborhood was unkempt this morning. The neighbor s lawn featured cast-off junk. His own usually well-kept home showed neglect. He went down to breakfast. had married, looked tired and slovenly. The normally well-stocked cupboard was bare. The two usually were. The kitchen stank of ager, was missing entirely. Gill explained, as she would to a child or a sick man. Jeff owned no business. She and he worked -- as did everyone else they knew -- at the Star Tower. She pointed at the Window. The mist outside had lifted. Jeff saw a huge tower in the distance, dominating the town. The structure, several hundred feet in diaShe seemed to have been been erased. Gill denied that Lori had ever existed. The neighbors did not remember her. Her room in the house had vanished. Other pertinent bits of Jeffs life had melted away as if he had merely dreamed them -- his burgeoning business, his plans for the future. meter, seemed to have grown there overnight but Gill behaved as if it had stood there forever. Becoming aware of an intruder -- at once human and nonhuman -- in the house, Jeff tried to fight. The intruder easily knocked him out and when Jeff came to. Gill was gone. Where and what was IV reality? Jeff knocked a hole in a plaster wall where Lori's room used to be and found the room but no Lori. Outside -- neighbors who had known Lori had no recollection of her. They all seemed enslaved by the alien masters of the Star Tower, remembered no other existence. Jeff encountered more of the aliens, fought them and managed to escape. His hunt for Lori took him to Sally Hodges, once Lori's friend -- and at Sally's he encountered a lawless group of refugees who believed that the country had been invaded by the Russians. Jeff was unable to convince them otherwise, finally had to flee for his life. Sally, although she thought he was suffering from delusions, accompanied him in a commandeered truck. They were captured by soldiers and taken to a U.S. -- Russian military encampment under the command of Colonel Strang. The encampment was isolated, self-contained. Both Strang and the Russians were convinced they were fighting Chinese Communists and Jeff s theory of semihuman aliens failed to impress anyone. He and Sally separated. Then Jeff was forcibly "drafted" into Strang's "army." T he barracks was a former cow barn, converted to troop use by the addition of a plywood floor and an assortment of beds ranging from antique four-posters to brand-new Sears, Roebuck cots. Men in uniform, both Russian and American, looked Mallory over as Brozhny conduged him to a stained and lumpy mattress on a makeshift frame at the far end of the long room. The odor of the former occupants was, if possible, stronger here than in the rest of the building. "What about the girl?" Mallory asked. "What's Strang got in mind for her?" "Speak with more respect of the good colonel," Brozhny said softly. "Foryour own safety." "Lieutenant, do you believe me?" "I'm sorry, no. I have no belief in walking department-store dummies who operate a factory -- " "But you believe in an invisible army of Chinese fanatics? Who suddenly learn enough space technology to launch thousand-man transports high enough to make a deep-space approach and soft-land in the middle of the country? Who ignore military objectives to capture a prairie town? Who consolidate their victory by bunching up to make a perfect target -- and then sit there and wait for Strang's next move?" "There are many things about this curious war that puzzle me, Mr. Mallory. But I find your stoIF ry even more puzzling. Why should intelligent aliens behave in this way? Why were you alone immune to their control? Why have none of the rest of us seen such creatures?" "Brozhny," Mallory said urgently, "get me out of this Boy Scout camp. If I can find a clue to what's going on, prove that Tm telling the truth -- " "Out of the question," the Russian said. "The colonel is right in one respect -- we need every man." "For what? To sit here on this broken-down farm and play soldier?" "We are gathering strength as a force, readying ourselves," the Russian said. "When the time comes we will launch our counterattack." "You think an infantry mob can do what the whole Army and Air Force -- U.S. and Russian -- couldn't do?" "As the colonel said -- we have plans, Mr. Mallory. Be patient." A lean, craggy-faced, big-fisted man in U.S. greens and a technical sergeant's chevrons strolled up, looked Mallory over. The newcomer's lip lifted to show yellow horse teeth. Brozhny made brief introductions and left. The sergeant propped his fists on his hips and squinted his eyes at Mallory. "You and the Russki are pals, hey?" He spat on the floor in the general direction of the door. "Well, the sweet talk is over. You're in the Army now. I'm Sergeant Gaunt. You work for me. First job for you is latrine detail." "I'm not in the Army," Mallory said. "I'm a civilian. I was brought here at gunpoint by my pal, the lieutenant -- " "Don't talk back to me, boy!" The sergeant prodded Mallory's chest with a finger as hard as a pistol barrel. "You've been called to the colors legal and proper." "In that case I'm in the wrong place. I'm a reserve major. I'll take my gold leaves now." "Officer, eh?" Gaunt's mouth curved in a V. "Any proof?" "I left my wallet in my other pants." "Ain't that too bad? Looks like you're lying. I don't like that. Private. I reckon you'lf be on latrine for a while." He turned and roared a name. "Chubb!" A runty soldier with jug ears and corporal's stripes hustled over. "Set him to digging slit trenches. See he digs 'em deep." "Let's go," he said to Mallory. Chubb tipped his head, fingered his carbine. Mallory followed the noncom out into the cold wind and to a barn, there to be handed a longhandled spade. Then the noncom marched Mallory around behind the building to a rectangular screen of canvas strips mounted on poles. "You heard the man. Dig 'em deep." Mallory fell to work, handling the shovel awkwardly. "What's the matter with your arm?" Corporal Chubb asked. "I picked up a few splinters from an imaginary explosion." Chubb grunted. Mallory dug. After an hour he had finished one trench -- a foot wide, two feet deep, twelve feet long. "All right, that's enough," Chubb said. He was shivering, hands thrust deep in his pockets. "I reckon you can break for chow now. Sarge never said you couldn't eat." Chubb escorted him to a long tent from which steam and sour food odors emanated. In the canvas-smelling gloom inside, he picked a greasy tray from a stack, joined the serving line. As he held out the tray, his eyes met those of the server. "Lori!" he said. S HE stared at him wide-eyed. The big ladle in her hand dropped unnoticed. Mallory leaned toward her and whispered swiftly, "Don't let them know." Then, in a normal voice, he said, "What a surprise to see you here." Lori leaned toward him. Her lips moved. Tears filled her eyes. "How -- when?" "I arrived a couple of hours ago," he said. "Courtesy of Lieutenant Brozhny." "I can't believe it. I thought you were dead." "I'm alive, all right -- " "Hey, you -- the new guy. Move it along," Corporal Chubb called. "Lori -- I'll see you in a few minutes." Chubb hustled Mallory along the line. "Nix on the dames. You want to get both of us in hot water?" I took a chance just bringing you in here. Sarge prob'ly meant for you to eat cold chow on the job." "She's an old friend, Chubb." "You ain't got no friends, mister. Just keep your nose clean and leave the women alone. You figure it out. You do your job and show your loyalty and maybe you get privileges. It's up to the colonel." Chubb led the way to a small table in a corner. The food was surprisingly good -- meat, potatoes and gravy, bread, green vegetables, strawberries and cream, fresh coffee. "We eat good here," Chubb said. "It ain't a bad life unless you're on the colonel's list. Just don't make no waves -- like with the dames." "How long have you been here?" "Couple of months," Chubb said. He swallowed coffee, wiped his mouth on his sleeve. "What did you do to rile Strang?" "Turned down a job offer." "Wasn't smart," Chubb grunted. "Why'd you do it?" "I have other plans." Chubb grunted. "Better forget it and get with the program. He's got it all doped out. Got to give him credit, he gets things done. Good thing, too. Wasn't for him, be nobody doing anything. He seen what needed doing, got some men together, started organizing things. Now we're getting somewhere. We're not licked yet, by God." "Getting where?" Mallory asked. "Getting set to hit 'em. Hit 'em IF no hard." "With what? Bows and arrows?" "He's got it doped out," Chubb repeated. "He knows." "Corporal," Mallory said, "I want to talk to the girl. Just for a few moments. How about it? "You crazy? I told you -- " "She's an old friend of mine." "Tell that to Strang." "All you have to do is -- " "Shut up, you!" Chubb barked. "Comes of trying to treat you decent. Maybe Sarge was right about you." As they walked into the barracks Sergeant Gaunt rose from an armchair and strolled over. "How's the new boy, Chubb? Give you any trouble?" Chubb glanced at Mallory. "No trouble." "Good. Hey, you," Gaunt said as Mallory started past. "I didn't dismiss you, boy. You're on kitchen detail tonight. Pots and pans. Nice clean work. Don't bother to sit down. You're late now. Mess sergeant won't like that." Chubb opened his mouth. "Don't say it, Chubb," Gaunt grated. "I'll decide when a recruit needs a break." Chubb clamped his jaw shut, nodded. "What are you waiting for?" Gaunt barked at Mallory. "For dismiss orders." "Don't try me, boy," Gaunt said, and jerked his thumb. "Pots and pans, on the double." F or three full hours Mallory scraped grease from cooking vats, elbow deep in scummed water. The mess sergeant, a roundfaced, paunchy man with tufts of gray haii over his ears, watched him obliquely. When the supply of pots was exhausted he assigned Mallory to scraping soot from the fireboxes of wood-burning bake ovens. Mallory worked steadily, gruffly told him to take a break, gestured to a table where a plate of steak and eggs, toast, coffee waited. "Thanks, friend," Mallory said. ' Where's the latrine?" left the mess tent, walked across the muddy farmyard to the barbed-wire enclosed area designated as the women's barracks. A guard armed with an M-# stood at the lone gate under the glare of a small floodlight. Mallory walked directly up to the man. The sentry watched him come. When Mallory was a few feet away the sentry shifted his rifle and opened his mouth to speak. Mallory charged, rammed his right fist hard into the sentry's stomach. As the man grunted explosively and doubled over, Mallory struck down at the back of the neck. His victim fell on his face and lay still. After dragging him behind a stack of cordwood, Mallory pushed the gate shut, walked to the nearest tent. A plump woman in a lumpy skirt and an unbuttoned fatigue jacket was just emerging through the fly. She halted when she saw him, slapped the jacket shut. "Say, what are you -- " "I want Private Lori Mallory, Sergeant," he said briskly. "Which tent?" The woman hesitated, tucking back a strand of sandy hair. "Just who are you? I never seen you before." "Major Disaster. I just hit camp. Snap it up. Sergeant. Which tent?" The woman pointed with a plump forefinger. "Number three, sir." "Thanks." "But you can't go in there." "Of course not. I want you to get her for me." "Well -- I'll see if she's able to talk to you." The woman waddled along the catwalk, poked her head into the tent. A moment later she withdrew, came back past Mallory without a word. Lori appeared, looking anxious. She saw Mallory, hurried to him, her smile fighting her tears. "Dad -- how marvelous to see you -- " She huddled against him, her arms around him. "Dad, it was awful, thinking I was all alone." "You're not alone, honey." Mallory patted her back. He gripped her shoulders, looked into her face. "Lori, I have news for you. The best news in the world. Your mother is alive, and the kids -- " "Dad," Lori's grip on his arm was convulsive. "Are you sure?" "I was with them two days ago." "But -- where?" "At home. In Beatrice." Lori's face rippled like a reflection in disturbed waters. "Dad, you couldn't have -- " she whispered. "The Chinese -- " "There are no Chinese in Beatrice," Mallory said. "I doubt there are any this side of the Pacific. That's a delusion of Strang's -- " "Dad -- Colonel Strang is a fine man. He's making order out of this chaos." "Strang is a dangerous lunatic," Mallory said. "He intends to destroy Beatrice. His plan is crazy enough to work. If it does, he'll kill Gill and the kids along with a few thousand other people." "There's no one left alive in Beatrice," Lori said. "The Chinese massacred them all. That's why we have to -- " "That's what Strang thinks -- but he's wrong. There are no Chinese in Beatrice. We've been invaded, Lori -- but not by any human enemy. They're alien creatures. Things from some other planet, I believe. They have fantastic powers of hypnosis. The people in the city are like sleepwalkers. They've been enslaved and they aren't even aware of it. There's a tower -- an immense structure -- where they work every day on some uncomprehensible project." L ori was staring at him in horror. "Dad -- what are you saying?" "I know, dear. I've already been told it's a fantasy I dreamed up to protect myself from the knowledge that Gill and the kids are dead. But they're not dead, Lori. Believe IF that, if you can't believe anything else." Lori shook her head. "I can't. Dad," she whispered. "I'm sorry. They're gone. I know they're gone. I've gotten used to the idea -- " "You thought I was dead, too," Mallory said. "But I wasn't." "That's different -- " she began. Then: "How did you get away?" You were at home when they attacked -- " "Never mind. I'm afraid you wouldn't believe me. And there's no time now. WeVe got to get away from here first. Afterward we'll talk.". 'hat do you mean? Dad, you can't -- " Mallory cut in on her protest. "Which tent is Sally in?" "Mine -- number three. But Dad -- if you're talking about -- " "Did someone mention my name?" Sally spoke from behind them. "When they called Lori out, I knew it was you, Jeff," she caught Mallory's arm possessively. "We're leaving now?" "Dad, you can't mean this!" Lori gasped. "You're planning to desert?" "That's a pretty harsh word, Lori. Escape would be closer to the truth." "You can't," Lori said. "The colonel is counting on you -- on all of us." "Don't be a fool, Lori," Sally said. "If Jeff thinks we should go he has a good reason." "What possible reason? Where would we go?" "To the house, of course. It's not far north of here." "bad, you're not thinking of trying to get back into Beatrice?" "No -- not yet. Not until we have help. I mean the Old House, Lori. We can rest and -- " "Please talk sense. What old house?" Mallory felt a sudden sense of disorientation. He shook his head. Was he mixing dreams with reality? "Never mind, Lori." He shut off the train of thought. "We've no time to waste. There's an unconscious guard lying a few feet from the gate. Someone may stumble over him at any moment." "What old house?" Lori repeated. "I think I understand. The house is another of your fantasies, like invaders from space and Mother's being alive. You needed a place to escape to -- so you've invented a house. But, Dad -- there isn't any house. There's no place to go. Colonel Strang offers the only possible hope of our ever rebuilding anything." "I won't argue with you, Lori. We're going. Now." Mallory caught her hand. She pulled away. "You can't go. I won't let you." "Lori, for God's sake -- " "No, for your sake. Dad. I guess you'll hate me now but maybe later you'll realize I was doing it for you -- " Lori brought a brass whistle to her lips. Sally sprang, knocked it from her hand. In the next instant Mallory had caught Lori's wrists. "My God, Lori, has Strang brainwashed you?" "Colonel Strang is a wonderful man, a real leader. He's the only one with the strength and the vision to do what has to be done. I won't betray him!" A shout came from the direction of the gate: "Corporal of guard -- on the double!" Mallory took a step. Lori threw herself at him, wrapped her arms around his neck. Feet were running toward the gate. "Hey -- down that way -- " a rough voice yelled. Mallory lifted Lori bodily, set off at a heavy run along the dark aisle between the tents that led to the tangled wall of shrubbery at the rear of the compound. A shot boomed behind them. Sally gave a sharp cry. Mallory skidded to a halt. Sally had fallen to her knees, holding her left arm. "Go on, Jeff," she gasped. "Don't wait for me." Lori whirled on her father. "Give yourself up. Dad. They shoot deserters." "If they catch them," Mallory rapped. "It's up to you, Lori." Another shot whanged nearby. "Take care of her," Mallory said swiftly. "And of yourself." He ran for the shadows. Behind him he heard Lori shout: "That way -- that way -- " As he plunged into the shrubbery he looked back, caught a glimpse of Sally crouched in the glow of a pale light -- and of Lori running toward the advancing men, pointing in a direction away from the one he had taken. V M allory covered three . miles in the next three hours, mostly on his stomach. A drizzling rain started up, accompanied by fog. Vehicles blundered past on the roads, their headlights soaked up by the mist. Men called and beat the brush but none came closer to him than fifty yards. When he emerged on a hardsurfaced road the lights of Strang's encampment were a pink glow in the sky behind him. There were no stars. The rain had stopped but the wind was bitter. Mallory's injured arm felt swollen to giant size. Got to get under shelter. Find transport, get past Strang s patrols. There'll be some kind oj authority in ' Omaha. Military headquarters. Unless that was the first target to go... He gave up the effort to think further ahead than the immediate future. Shelter first, rest, food if possible, rebandage the arm. That was enough for now. Maybe more than enough. Earlier the wind had been blowing from the east. He'd have to assume it still was. Keeping it on his right, he started along the road. He recognized it as the route along which Brozhny had escorted IF him and Sally less than twelve hours earlier. It seemed like days ago. He thought of Sally with a bullet in her flesh -- of Lori, torn two ways by pressures too great for her to handle. He thought of Gill, of Randy and Marla. Don't think. Just walk... How Jar? Until you come to something... group of large buildings, tall, flat-fronted, mansard-roofed, rising among century-old trees at the crest of a rise. Lights glowed... Over the whisper of the wind he heard faint sounds -- a voice, the thud of a slamming door, the chug of a power generator. Mallory left the road, approached through a ploughed field across the angle of the rising ground. He saw trees and tangled growth ahead. He pushed through, encountered a high brick wall. It took him a quarter of an hour made hell by his injured arm to climb into the lower branches of a beech to which dead autumn leaves still clung. He worked his way out, let himself down on top of the wall, then dropped inside. The ground was smooth here and had the feel of dead lawn. He came to a path, followed it along a curving route through wildgrown shrubbery. The walkway debouched into a narrow drive that extended back past the main building. Dimly Mallory made out a parked vehicle -- pink light winked from a reflector. Directly opposite him, twentyfive yards away, was a lighted window. Mallory stared. He saw a tall man with coppery hair seated at a desk, writing. The civilized scene was reassuring. Mallory had to approach someone for help. A scholarly man in a quiet study seemed as good a bet as he was likely to find. Mallory crossed the dry grass to a driveway. He had taken two steps along the pavement when glare struck him in the face. He stood still, his hands clear of his sides. Two men emerged from the concealment of a tall, untrimmed juniper hedge. One was lean, long-armed, with a crookedjawed face and a bedraggled beard below a red plastic baseball cap. He wore a rain-blackened mackinaw, tight jeans three inches too short for his long shins, hightopped shoes. His companion -- shorter, older, plump, covered by a shiny black raincoat -- carried a compact crossbow, quarrel in place, finger on the trigger. Both men eyed Mallory warily. "Where you come from?" the thin one barked. "Why you sneaking around here?" "I was looking for a place to get out of the weather." "One of Strang's bunch,' hey? What's the matter? Tired of evil and sin?" "I'm tired of evil, all right," Mallory said. "And I haven't gotten in on my share of the sin lately." The thin man took a quick stride forward and swung a backhanded blow. Mallory, off guard, ducked back. The pain of the sudden movement was like an ice pick in his flesh. The plump man backed a step, raising the crossbow. Black fog rose to obscure Mallory's vision. He shook his head, tried to blink the mist away. "Hey -- he's hurt, Wiss." The crossbowman's voice penetrated a high-pitched hum that filled Mallory's head. "He's out on his feet." "He'll be hurt more before he's done," Wiss said from far away. "Let's search him. Let's see what he's got on him." The plump man held his weapon ready while the other patted Mallory's pockets. "Nothing," the thin one said aitd stepped away. "Go ahead, Deebs. What are you waiting for?" "My God, Wiss. You expect me to shoot a man in cold blood?" "But you can take the name of the Lord in vain. Give me that bow. I'll do it." Wiss halted abruptly as Deebs pivoted to cover him with the crossbow. "Stay back, Wiss. I warned you before." Wiss lifted his hands. "All right, all right. Don't get jumpy." Deebs backed away, covering both Mallory and the lean man. "We'll take him up to the house. You first, Wiss, where I can keep an eye on you." T he light in the room was too bright. Mallory's shoulder throbbed. His head felt soft and bruised, his eyes gritty. A faint odor of ammonia hung in the air. The man with the coppery hair -- glossy, arranged in meticulous waves above an imposing forehead -- smiled gently at him from behind the desk. The man had a ruddy, pink-cheeked complexion, a well-shaped but longish nose, unusually red lips, a sharp, jutting chin. "Suppose you account for yourself, eh?" he said in a resonant rather nasal voice. He waved a small vial of what Mallory saw was smelling salts under his nose, sniffing gently, smiling faintly. "I understand you're from Strang's camp." "Colonel Strang tried to draft me into his army," Mallory said. "I didn't want to be drafted. I left." "Oh?" The shiny-haired man IF pushed his lips out, nodding sagely. "I thought Strang posted sentries." His tone was mildly skeptical. "I made a diversion. The rain helped." The seated man glanced at Deeb standing beside the desk, a drop of water trembling on the tip of his nose. "Brother Henry seems to feel you came here to spy on us." "He's wrong." Mallory looked around the room. It was large, high-ceilinged, with buff and brown walls, a row of large double-hung windows, roller shades, net curtains. Book shelves lined two walls. A long table held more books. A dictionary and a globe had their own stands. "What is this place?" "You're on the grounds of Revelation College -- in the dean's library, to be precise. I'm Brother Jack Harmony." He paused as if awaiting recognition. When Mallory said nothing he frowned a little. "Why did Strang send you?" "I've told you -- I'm on my own -- " "No insolence," Brother Jack said sharply. For an instant his large, pale eyes glared bleakly. Then he relaxed and twitched his lips into his smile. "How many men does Strang have now?" "A few hundred, I suppose." Brother Jack nodded. "Guns? Ammunition?" "They seemed to be well armed." Brother Jack's eyes narrowed. "When is he planning his attack?" "You seem to know more about him than I do. I was in his camp only a few hours -- " "But he is planning such an attack?" "So he says." "You see?" Brother Jack looked at Deebs with a pitying expression. "And you thought I was imagining things." "I never thought that. Brother Jack -- " "Get out, Henry," Harmony said mildly. "I want to talk with our guest in private." Deebs left the room. Brother Jack indicated a chair, waited until Mallory was seated. "I'm surrounded by fools," he said. "They know nothing, understand nothing." He leaned forward, looking shrewd. "What sort of deal is Strang offering?" he asked crisply. "Mr. Harmony, I wish you'd rid yourself of the idea that I'm working for Strang." "Call me Brother Jack -- I've put aside all titles." Harmony looked speculatively at Mallory. "Now, you and I know how to accommodate." His eyes slid aside from Mallory, roved around the room, came back to Mallory. "I hope so, Brother Jack." "Now, if -- in order to survive -- it becomes necessary for a man to come to terms with forces of the Opposition, well -- a man can't serve God if he's dead, can he? You see. I'm realistic. I've seen how the Pit has opened, spawning its imps in the world of man. I can read the writing on the wall. The time of God's ascendency is on the wane -- just temporarily, of course. He's testing us, you see -- to determine who deserves to live and who doesn't." "I'm afraid this is over my head. Brother Jack." "Don't lie to me, man." Harmony showed his teeth, even, white and false. "You've seen them. I know it. I can detect their mark in your eyes?" "Seen whom?" "The imps. The spawn of Satan. The living dead."'lory said. "Imps or aliens, they've taken over the city. As far as I know, they've made no effort to expand their beachhead. You're the first man I've met who doesn't think I had hallucinations." "Satan's clever," Brother Jack said. "Oh, I underestimated him. I'll confess to you that for years I was skeptical in my heart. I spoke the word of God but in my private thoughts I was an unbeliever. That's why He loosed Satan on the world, you see. I admit it. I'm the guilty one!" "I'm sure there were plenty of others," Mallory said. "The question is, what's being done about it?" "No others," Brother Jack said. "Just me. I'm the one God put his finger on. But I'll survive. I know it's His will. It's His way of testing me. And I'll measure up." "That's fine. Brother Jack. Where is the nearest regular authority? Was Omaha hit?" "Your coming was just as I predicted." Harmony nodded. "I knew the call would come." "Do you have a short-wave radio?" Mallory asked. "You're a hard man to deal with," Harmony snapped. "Very well -- out with it! You want me openly to come in with you, am I right?" Sweat glistened on the high forehead. "Brother Jack, all I'm interested in is locating what government is left, if any, and doing what I can to combat whatever it is that's invaded the country." "I see I've given you the wrong impression," Harmony said. "You won't let a man even save his face, will you? All right -- let's talk plain. I'm a realist. When resistance is hopeless a man has a duty to save his own life." "Look, Brother Jack -- if you have a car I could take -- " "I won souls for Christ even when I preached empty lies," IF Harmony stated flatly. "Just think what I can do for Satan." "You're off the beam. Harmony," Mallory said. "I didn't come here to make a deal with you." The shiny-haired man slid open a desk drawer, cased out a Colt .# automatic. His fingers curled lovingly around the grip. He weighed the gun on his palm, then deftly pointed it at Mallory, the butt resting on the desk. "You can have the others," he said. "They're nothing. Expendables. Do as you like with them. But you need me. Strang knows that. Otherwise he wouldn't have sent you." The door burst open. Deebs entered the room, the crossbow in his hands, his face flushed, his eyes shocked. An Oriental-looking youth stood behind him. "You're selling us out!" he blurted. "You listened, eh? That's too bad. Brother Deebs." Brother Jack shifted the pistol, raised the muzzle slightly. "Goodbye, Brother Deebs," he said and fired pointblank. Deebs spun, fell face down across the desk. Mallory came to his feet, froze as the gun swung to cover him. The Japanese boy made a mewing sound and backed away. "Now, you spent time with Strang." Harmony addressed Mallory as if nothing had happened. "You must have seen him consorting with the Fiend. Tell me, is it true Satan takes the shape of a small black boy with a hump on his back and a tuft of red hair like a goat's beard dangling from his nose?" His eyes were fixed 'on Mallory's. His mouth hung slightly open. "I didn't see anyone fitting that description," Mallory said. "He has a thousand forms," Harmony said. "Oh, I've seen some of them. In my boyhood he appeared to me as a giant black dog one night, but I drove him away with God's curse. Later he came to me in the form of scarlet women, painted and perfumed -- I knew then that he was stronger than God." He jerked the gun at Mallory. "Speak up." "The ones I saw look like poorly manufactured men," Mallory said carefully. "How do they speak?" "Very politely -- even when "Like the words of scarlet wornen." Harmony nodded. "That was what gave them away. At first I was afraid. I confess the weakness. I ran with the others. Then Satan singled me out and made me halt and turn back. Oh, it was in my heart to do the bidding of the Evil One!" Harmony looked at Deeb, sprawled across the table on his back, his face a red ruin, his feet clear of the floor. "That one fooled me. He took the shape of a man but now he's given it up again." Harmony had lowered the gun -- it hung in his hand, pointing at the floor. Mallory took a step toward him and the weapon snapped up. "Don't make any foolish moves," Harmony snarled. "I was a combat Marine before the Call came -- I never qualified below Sharpshooter. You stand back over there, beside Tanaka." Mallory complied. The small man was leaning against a bookcase, his hands clutched together, shivering. "Oh, it's hard sometimes to hear the voice of God," Harmony said. "Now, at first I thought you were Strang's agent -- then you spoiled it all. Now I just don't know." "Brother Jack -- " the Japanese boy began in a thin whine. "Shut up," Mallory said. "Brother Jack's in no mood to be argued with." "Good. You've seen F'm in earnest," Brother Jack said. "And you saw how I dealt with Henry. Are you ready to give me Strang's terms? Satan's terms?" "No," Mallory said. "But I know how to kill the imps." Harmony looked at him solemnly along the barrel of the gun. "You know better than that," IF he said. "Satan's minions can't die like mortal creatures." "I killed one. Maybe more than one." "That's your last lie," Harmony snapped. "But I'll show your Master I'm worthy. Kneel." He brandished the Colt. T he Japanese lad made a thin sound and started to fall forward. Mallory swung toward him. Harmony jumped to his feet, started around the desk. His hip collided with Deeb's feet. The body skidded, tangling limply with Brother Jack's legs. The gun went off and the glass door of the bookcase shattered behind Mallory. Brother Jack stumbled, went down. His head struck the corner of the desk with a sound like an axe hitting a seasoned oak log. He flopped sidewise and lay still, blood spreading in his glossy hair. Mallory turned at a sound. Wiss was standing in the doorway, holding'a crossbow at the ready. "Oh, boy," Wiss said. He licked his lips. He lowered the point of aim to Mallory's abdomen. His eyes flicked past his target, back to Mallory's face, away again.  "Killed all three, did you? I heard three shots." "Two shots," Mallory said. "Tanaka's not dead." "Yeah?" Wiss said. He advanced a step. "Now it's my turn. Where do you want it? Through the stomach? In the lungs? How about right in the mouth? Open your mouth, you black snake of sin." "Then you'll have to dispose of the bodies alone," Mallory said. Wiss nipped a chapped lip with long yellow teeth. He looked troubled. He nodded. He cut his eyes toward Brother Jack. His gaze lingered. "All right. Him first. You think he meant it -- about leaguing with Satan? That why you shot him?" "He fell. Hit his head on the desk." ' "Turn him over." Mallory did as ordered. Wiss frowned down at the corpse. "I don't see where it went in." "He wasn't shot. He fired at me. Deeb tripped him up." Wiss motioned Mallory back, then stepped forward to stare down with a fascinated expression at Deeb. Tanaka groaned and sat up. "All right, Tanaka," Wiss said. "You can help." Tanaka was speaking softly in Japanese and crying. "Pick him up," Wiss said to Mallory. Mallory took the dead man's wrists, hoisted him into position for a fireman's carry. Mallory's knees buckled as the weight came on hirm He went down hard. Wiss kicked him. Tanaka sobbed. Mallory crawled from under the corpse. "I've lost some blood myself," he said. "I.'m afraid I can't help you."  "You can walk," Wiss said. "That will be some help. I won't have to carry you out." "That's a point," Mallory said. He climbed to his feet, feeling dizzy and sick. "Let's go," Wiss said. W SS following him, Mallory stepped out into a lengthy dark hall lined with oversized doors. Their pebbkd-glass panels were marked by numbers lettered in old-fashioned style. His feet echoed on the tiles. Moonlight shone through the window at the stairway landing. The house was a split-level. In the lower hall, Wiss directed him toward the rear. "Don't walk so fast," Wiss said. "Why be in a hurry?" "I didn't kill Deebs," Mallory said. "Brother Jack did the shooting. I didn't have a gun, remember?" "I'm enjoying this," Wiss said. "This is what I've always wanted. Turn left." They were in a narrower, darker hall. There were mops and brooms against the wall, a trash cart. "It's hard to fight sin," Wiss said. "You start out to look for sin and seems like you can't find it. The bad ones act virtuous to your face -- and then behind your back they make their pact with Satan." "Brother Jack knew a lot about Satan," Mallory said. "Me more than him," Wiss saM. "You outsmarted Jack -- but you're not going to outsmart me. You're going to die. Out that way." Mallory saw a fire-door. He pushed a release bar. The door swung outward. He stepped down to a bricked path margined by garbage cans. The trees stood up stark and aloof against moonlit clouds. "That way," Wiss said. "I'll bury you in the garden. I'll cover you with manure." The cold air cleared Mallory's head slightly. The urgency of the nausea retreated. "I'm going to be sick," he said. "Try not to shoot me until I get through." He turned aside, leaned against a tree and made a retching sound. From the corner of his eye he saw Wiss lower the crossbow. He moaned, put his hands to his stomach -- and Jumped for the shelter of the bole. Wiss yelled. A crossbow bolt clattered through dry branches to Mallory's left. He ran a weaving course among the saplings, circling back toward the house. Wiss was shouting, crashing through the brush. Mallory fell, rolled. Wiss charged past him, ten feet IF away. Mallory counted to twenty, rose and started back along his path as silently as possible. The sound of Wiss's passage halted abruptly. Mallory stopped, resumed his progress when Wiss again grew noisy. The lower drive widened in front of a converted barn. A darkcolored sedan was parked there, its front bumper against the weathered siding. Mallory came up on it from the left side, opened the door, slid behind the wheel. The keys dangled from iht ignition. He took two deep breaths and turned the key. The starter groaned. Mallory pumped the gas pedal. The engine caught. He slammed the gears into reverse, backed, cutting the wheel hard. He braked, gunned forward. Wiss darted into view beside the house. As Mallory roared past at a distance of six feet, he saw the bow swing up into firing position, tracking him. Glass shattered behind him. The metal bolt stood quivering in the padded plastic of the right side of the dash. Mallory switched on the headlights in time to swing the curve of the drive. The gates loomed ahead, massive as a portcullis. Mallory closed the distance to them at sixty miles per hour. At the last instant he threw himself sideways on the seat. The shock knocked him against the right-hand door. He pulled himself erect in time to see one panel of the gate, bent almost double, slide off the hood and bounce away into the underbrush. The car was in a skid, its rear coming around to the right as it left the road. Mallory caught the wheel, steered into the skid, crashed through dry stalks and saplings, plunged down through a ditch, back up again. He coasted to a stop on the road. He brushed glass chips from his face, wiped blood from one eye. The windshield was smashed. One headlight was out. The other was knocked out of line so that its beam pooled twenty feet ahead of the car. The engine, still running, clattered rhythmically. Mallory's head was ringing with a high, wavering tone, like an idling transmitter. He hitched himself back under the wheel and tried the accelerator. The car moved ahead awkwardly. Mallory could feel the drag of an out-ofline wheel. The steering mechanism pulled at his hands. Slowly, like an injured animal, the car moved down the road. VI M allory put ten miles be tween himself and Revelation College before he allowed himself the luxury of pulling to the road shoulder. He had suffered a number of minor facial cuts and a painful chest bruise. His injured arm ached with a deep implacable persistance. His head felt hot, his stomach empty. The lump behind his right ear was swollen and tender. He touched it and pain shot down along his jaw, upward across the top of his skull. The cold wind gusting in through the broken windshield had chilled him to the bone. "Progress report," he said, and was startled at the hoarse, croaking quality of his voice. "Item one -- I've gotten clear of Beatrice. I know what I saw there. Item two -- I've found Lori alive and as well as could be expected. Item three -- " He paused, trying to order his thoughts. Thinking was hard. He needed rest, food, drink -- a doctor. "Later," he said firmly. "Right now the question is the next move. Dawn will come in a few hours. Strang's men will be out. They're between me and Omaha -- I think. I need a road map." He opened the glove compartment, bending the crossbow bolt aside to allow the door to drop. He found worn gloves -- which he put on -- a crumpled paper cup, a greasy screwdriver and a muchfolded map. The dash lights provided enough illumination for him to study it. As closely as he could estimate. Strang's headquarters lay a mile or so west of the main road north -- too close for him to risk that route. The alternative was to skirt wide to the east, then double back. "Would help if I knew where I was," he muttered through lips stiff with cold. He had to think out loud to make sense to himself. "Have to make a guess. Headed east from Strang's camp. Still headed east -- unless the wind has changed -- " It seemed to be blowing straight at him now. Couldn't count on the wind. Best bet was to drive on until he saw a route marker or came to a town, then correct course accordingly. "So that's settled," he told himself. "Unless I run out of gas -- or overheat -- or pass out and run into a tree." The car's front end was badly out of line. The wheels set up a bone-shaking vibration at fifteen miles per hour. The steering was stiff. He could smell hot oil. "Radiator's probably punctured," he muttered. "Lucky it's a cold night." He came up to an intersection with a rutted blacktop road, slowed, made a left turn, went on for a quarter of a mile before he braked to a halt. "Why did I turn?" He mumbled the question. His voice sounded in his ears like that of a stranger but he found speakIF ing aloud necessary to concentration. Suddenly the concept frightened him. Was his mind going? He forced himslef to think silently. What ensued was a curious, partly vocalized, partly silent dialogue. Have to work my way north... Sound again: "No. Wrong. Worked it out, decided to head east, hit main road -- This way. It's not Jar now... "What's not far?" He shook his head, staring out through broken glass at the weedchoked ditch illuminated by the lone headlight. The house. Have to get to the house, rest, get warm... Sure, the house... funny  forgot about it. Right, have to get to the old house... He started up, drove on another hundred yards. "Wait a minute," he said and jammed on the brake. The sudden stop Jerked his head painfully but also served to clear it. "Going nuts," he said." "Thoughts all confused." House... old place, stone, high gables, horses in the drive, gas lanterns on tall poles, smell of stables. Home. But not home. Remember it from... long time ago. Small boy. Have to go back. Something wonderful there. Waited long time... "Imagining things," he said loudly and rubbed his face. "Or am I? Is there an old house? Seems as if it's been in the back of my mind ever since I left Beatrice. Even before. But it's nonsense. Old family manse? Crazy. Isn't any old family manse. Besides, I have to avoid heading back -- " But I have to go there. Tve already waited too long... "All right." He laughed raggedly. "What the hell? There's a way to settle it -- I'll go have a look, get it off my mind, get back to business. And maybe there'll be food and a bed." He looked ahead along the crooked secondary road. "But what makes me think this road will lead me to it?" You know the way. It's not far now. Get to the house. Then you can rest... "All right, Mallory. Maybe it's the still, small voice of conscience. Follow your nose. It can't lead you any farther astray than you already are." He put the car in gear, crawled ahead along the rutted track. N OW that he had given in to the compulsion Mallory felt curiously resigned -- as if he were no longer a lone swimmer in choppy seas but a passenger on a ship for whose course he bore no responsibility. There might be reefs and tides ahead but for the moment he could simply cling to the rail and ride. He wondered vaguely how far he had come. Two miles? Three? What would he find at the end of the road? The question seemed academic, remote. His job now was simply to steer -- and stay awake. The faint whop-whop-whop of beating rotors intruded on his thoughts. Looking back, he saw a copter's navigation lights bobbing a hundred yards above the treetops, three hundred yards behind him. A searchlight speared down, fingering the ground, sweeping closer along the trail of roiled dust. His reactions were sluggish, clumsy, as he cut his single headlight, wrenched the wheel to the left. The car slammed down through a shallow ditch, up again into a ploughed field. He saw a clump of trees ahead. He steered for it, felt the wheels losing traction. Something dragged under the car. The vehicle wallowed, came to rest, nose high. Mallory jumped out, almost fell, ran stumbling across the furrows and toward the trees. Under their cover he worked his way up a wooded slope toward the higher ground ahead. The copter circled the stalled car, hovered, then dropped in to land near it. Moments later it lifted again. Mallory pushed on through thick underbrush and interlaced branches. He heard shouts behind him. Handlights flickered through the thickets. Overhead, the copter beat the air, its light raking the hillside. The trees thinned. Mallory scrambled up over a bare outcropping of granite, ran on among twisted pines that gripped the rock with roots like arthritic fingers. He saw a path winding upward, closed on both sides by dense walls of growth. Mallory heard feet scrape rock close behind him. He plunged off the path, forcing his way back into the brush. He had gone no more than twenty feet when a vertical wall of rock barred his way. He slumped to the ground, gasping for breath. End of the line... Voices came, accompanied by sounds men made, breaking through brush. "Must have doubled back. You men spread out there, beat the brush for him." "Jig two-fiye. Let's have that light over here, a hundred yards upslope and to your right." The copter hammered its way overhead. Mallory lay where he was, listening to the sounds of search. He dozed. After a while the sounds went away. He rose stiffly to his feet and began seeking a route past the stone wall. He found it twenty feet to the left of the pocket where he had sheltered from the hunt. Crumbled stone led up in a stairlike slope. He climbed it, scraped low IF under tangled berry bushes -- and pendant chandelier of antique cut. was looking across a weed-grown On the. floor at his feet lay the lawn at the house. dead body of a man. than he had pictured it. The architecture was unlike anything he had ever seen -- massive, monumental, ancient and forbidding. He walked forward slowly, finding an overgrown flagstone path that led past a worked-stone horse trough where a trickle of water still bubbled over a mossy curve of rock. Patches of dry stalks indicated what had once been flower beds. A fallen trellis dropped over a cracked stone bench. To one side, the remains of wooden sheds sagged in advanced decay. He crossed a graveled drive, barely discernible among the weeds. Pale moonlight reflected from high windows like blind eyes. A flight of wide, leaf-littered steps led up to a stone-balustraded terrace. At the top, across the broad veranda, a carved door of corroded metal half again as high and wide as normal was set in the granite wall under a semicircle of stained glass. In the center of the door was an ornate latch in the shape of a griffin's head. Mallory gripped the ring, turned it. The door swung in. He stepped into a wide, high entry hall, with stained flowered walls, tarnished mirrors framed in peeling gilt, a chirred monotonously. Water dripped with a slow, patient cadence. Wind boomed under the high eaves. Mallory circled the corpse. It was lying with one hand outflung, the head turned to one side, long hair, glossy black, curling about the back of the powerful neck. The body was clothed in a long coat of bottle green, tight fawn-colored trousers. Shiny black boots reached halfway to the knee. Ruffled lace showed at cuff and throat. The man had been dead, Mallory estimated,.hours rather than days. The face was hollow-cheeked, greenish pale -- but visible deterioration had barely begun. He walked into a large room filled with shadows. Starlight gleamed down through high windows hung with rotted drapes, silvered cracked and curling parquet floor, partially masked by the remnants of heavy carpets. Faded wallpaper of baroque design peeled from the walls above dark wood paneling. He saw massively framed pictures, portraits of men and women in antique costume. Heavy chairs and sofas were ranged across the room, their horsehair upholstery reduced to tatters through which rusted springs and discolored padding showed. Mice scuttled ahead of Mallory as he crossed the big room, lurched through an arch into a second room, this one lined with bookshelves filled with cockroach-pitted spines. Papers were scattered among the drifted dust across the decayed carpet. Gusts of cold wind filtered in through a broken window almost choked by the foilage of the branch that had grown through it. A grand staircase led up in a wide sweep to a second floor. Mallory climbed it. The high-ceilinged bedrooms here were furnished in the same ornate style and were in the same state of decay as the rooms below. At the back of the hguse Mallory discovered a kitchen with high wooden counters, a coal stove, a hand pump beside the cast-iron sinks. A door looked out on a weed-choked garden with paths and a fountain almost obscured by wild-growing shrubs. A tree with a trunk a foot in diameter grew up through the tumbled flagstone of a terrace. Far back, the ruins of a gazebo were visible among shoulder-high growth. "What does it mean?" Mallory asked himself aloud. "What is this place? Have I ever been here before?" He was afraid to question himself silently. His mind was a stranger to him. H e turned and found himself looking at a high narrow, brown-painted door set in a wall paneled with inch-wide strips. He tried the brown porcelain knob. The door swung inward, disclosing a dusty landing above a flight of steep wooden steps. Mallory stared down into the total blackness. A dank odor of wet masonry and toadstools rose to his nostrils. "Hello," he called. "Anybody home?" His voice gave back a muffled echo. He felt light-headed, unreal. "Came this far," he muttered. "Might as well see it all." Unsteadily, clinging to the worn wooden handrail, Mallory started to descend. Halfway down he had to stop and wait for dizziness to pass. At the bottom he fumbled in a pocket, brought out a book of matches. He struck one with difficulty. The guttering light showed him a stone floor, the bulk of an ancient coal-burning furnace, a coal bin behind it, sagging ceiling beams and, at the far side of the cavernous cellar, a small door of heavy planks bound with iron. "That way," he grunted as the match faded and winked out. He lit another, circled rotting wooden crates stacked in his path, tried the big iron handle. It turned with a dry rasp of rusty metal. The IF door swung back to reveal a small room lined with shelves filled with mason jars. A few of the jars had burst, lay in shards among the tarry remains of their contents. "Store room," he muttered. "Jams and jellies just like mother used to make." There was a sharp snick, as of an oiled metal bolt sliding home. A line of light appeared in the wall, widened as a panel slid back smoothly into the masonry wall. Mallory was looking into a room with walls of smooth gray, a floor of dull-polished black. The entire ceiling glowed with an even white light. He saw bulky shapes. Safes? Television sets? They were spaced along a side wall. Above them a row of six-inch disks of pale radiance flickered and writhed. He walked straight ahead into the room. As he passed the door a bright point of light winked on in the wall opposite, dazzling him. He turned his face away. The light winked off. He heard a brief clatter -- like the sound of an electric typewriter operated at top speed. Mallory took a step backward. A sound on his left made him turn. A rectangular section of wall, three feet by six, pivoted open slowly. A room was visible through the opening. An illuminated ceiling shed a harsh glow on a glittering framework erected, over a flat, padded slab on which lay a man so withered that at first Mallory assumed that he was looking at a mummified corpse. But the wizened head turned. Dim eyes stared. "Algoric, thank God you've come," said a voice like the rustle of dry leaves. M allory wiped a hand across his eyes. When he looked again nothing had changed. He took a step into the room. Warm air touched his face. His pulse beat heavily in his head. His vision blurred. He crossed to the coU looked down at the shrunken body, cocooned in wires and tubes linking it to a machine around it. He touched a bone-thin arm. It felt dry, cool -- but alive. "I guess you're real," he said. "As real as the rest of it. Who are you? What is this place?" "You're late, Algoric," the whispery voice said. "I've waited -- so long. But you're here at last. I pray it's not too late." "Too late for what?" "I'm sorry for everything that happened, Algoric. But I'll try to make amends." "What are we talking about?" Mallory demanded. "Are you my hallucination, or am I yours?" He laughed, then leaned against the framework of the machine as another wave of dizziness rose over him like black water... size of the task force," the old voice was whispering. "Will they arrive in time? Ah, it's late, so late. But who could have known? And now -- " The old man's eyes focused again on Mallory's face. A startled expression tightened the oldster's sagging features. He raised his head an inch. "You're not Algoric. Who are you? How -- " He fell back, his eyes vague. Mallory leaned over the semiconscious man. "Wake up. Who are you? Talk to me." The ancient't face was slack. His lips moved but no sound passed them. A dangling wire caught Mallory's eye. It had the look of a disconnected lead. A few inches from its tip was an empty socket of the right size to fit the jack. He plugged it in. At once indicator lights winked on on the console beside the cot. A soft whirr of pumps started up. An articulated metal arm deployed, lowered a spongy pad .to contact with the old man's chest, moved gently over it. Other muted clicks and hummings followed -- a complex apparatus was going into action. The old man's face spasmed, went slack. His breathing deepened. His thin body twitched and relaxed. Mallory sensed that he had gone into a deep sleep. "Good idea," he said, feeling the stiffness of his lips, the thickness of his tongue. "Me, too.Talk later -- if I'm not already dreaming." Awkwardly, painfully, like a man in a daze, he pulled off his coat, rolled it, lay on the warm floor and tucked the garment under his head. Total fatigue was like a scythe cutting all the wires that had kept him going for the past thirty-six hours. man was watching him from bright feverish eyes. "Ah, you're back," he croaked. "I've been thinking -- Algoric sent you in his place. But where is he? Why didn't he come?" "I don't know anyone of that name." Mallory rose to his feet. His headache had dwindled to merely a dull soreness but his arm was stiff and painful. His stomach felt as if it held the embers of a coal fire. The old man looked stricken. His thoughts seemed to wander. He shook his head and gazed again at Mallory. "What is the month?" "February." The old man groaned. "Time is the traitor," he said. "What has passed out there?" "Lots of things," Mallory said. "Let's start with the invasion. They've set up their HQ in BeaIF trice. Alien creatures, imitation humans. Hundreds of them. They've hypnotized everyone in the city. They don't seem to be anywhere else. The country's disorganized -- in a state of shock or worse. Radio and TV seem dead. I saw no signs of the army or any king of organized authority. People are accepting old answers -- blaming each other, Satan or communists. Or are simply trying to accept and survive." The old man made a distressed sound. "Disaster, disaster -- Again he seemed to pull himself together with an effort. "How did you come here?" "That's what I intended to ask you," Mallory said. "This place -- I had an image of it in my mind but not as it is. I saw it full of life and light and activity. There were horses, and people in old-style clothing. It was like a dream that kept pulling at me. So I came -- I don't know how, but I seemed to know the way." "I failed," the old man muttered. "How could it end like this? Betrayal, hatred, death -- and worse than death." "I answered you," Mallory said. "Now answer me. Who are you? What is this place?" "It doesn't matter now, young man. Too late, too late -- " "Tell me anyway." The other shook his head wearily. "You wouldn't understand -- or even believe me." "Try me." "How could you? You know nothing of -- the other world, the great world." "I know we've been invaded by creatures that are not of this earth," Mallory said. "What are they? What do they want?" "Want? You misunderstand, Mallory. They want nothing, they know nothing -- not as you and I want and know." "They want something badly enough to invade the planet." "No. Invade is not the correct word," the old man said. "Your planet is not occupied -- it's infected. They're not invaders. They're a disease." said, "is a single organism whose being is implicit in a multitude of discrete units. It arose eons ago on a world in some far galaxy. Perhaps at first it was a simple virus, mindless and bodiless, existing only as a pattern to be impressed on living cells, devouring them, spreading, growing. "But it is the basic trait of life -- even the half-life, the pseudo-life, of a virus -- to seek to expand. It is conjectured that in time the Mone came to be the dominant -- indeed, the only -- organized matter on its native world. It -- or they -- developed -- not intelligence but a system of instinctive reactions to situations, comparable to the ability of some of your native insects to construct elaborate nests, weave geometric webs, erect traps, store food, herd other insects navigate, communicate, all without true thought. And like other organized matter the Mone was faced with a choice -- evolve or die. It evolved. "We have no way of knowing the intermediate steps by which the Mone occupied its native system, then learned to cross interstellar distances -- or the process by which it elaborated its ultimate, sophisticated methods of survival. We do know that when it crossed intergalactic space to reach our galaxy, it had become a force of fearsome potency. Its encapsulated germ plasm could endure the rigors of cold, vacuum, time, until the warmth of a sun drew it close. Reacting to the gravitational wells of planets, a spore pod would steer itself to a world -- and it mattered not on what kind of world it found itself. It was infinitely adaptable, capable of thriving in molten magma or on bare ice at a degree or two above zero absolute -- or in an atmosphere of incandescent gas. In response to exterior conditions the germinal units would ready themselves. Then the pod would burst, releasing a thousand self-sufficient embryonic creatures equipped to cope with local conditions, however severe -- to grow, construct a nest for the Queen Mone, support and feed her until her spawning time. Then, with the planet seeded by worker-forms, the next phase was entered. This time all effort was concentrated on the creation each packed with the seeds of a new planet-infecting force. In six months -- or a year -- or a century -- when the planet was exhausted -- the pods would be launched from the stripped world, spreading the plague outward from star to star at a geometric rate. In a million years -- or less -- the entire galaxy would be only a dead husk from which all life had been stripped as wheat is stripped from a field by locusts." "Spores," Mallory broke the ensuing silence. "Viruses. The things I saw were big, powerful. They used tools, spoke -- " "Your chromosomes bear the genetic pattern which determines your form, your abilities. This pattern varies from species to species, phylum to phylum. In the Mone the only pattern is adaptability. Earthly species adapt to environment by evolution over a long period. The Mone has evolved the ability to make instant adaptation of its chromosomes to meet whatever pressures it senses await the newly spawned generation." IF "All this doesn't explain what's happened to Gill -- to everyone. Why couldn't I make her understand that something was wrong? And why was my daughter's room sealed? Why?" "The Mone uses whatever natural resources it finds. Workers are needed to construct the nest, to prepare the special foods and supply the physical needs of the Queen Mone. Here it seized on a cadre of humans, instilled in its slaves a false image of the world and of their roles, supplied them with false motivations to make them docile and productive. As for the sealed room -- if the girl were missing, the parents might best be soothed by deleting her from their memories and eliminating all evidence of her existence. A protective field that creates a sense of illness in interlopers effectively discourages interference." "And where do you come in?" "A Mone infection on a distant world escaped the notice of galactic authorities until too late -- the cell spored before it was destroyed. Many of the spore pods were tracked and destroyed but many were lost. An object only inches long, composed of inert organic material, is a difficult target to seek out in the depths of space. Therefore we established a spherical shell of Watcher Stations on outlying Vvorlds, alert for the approach of pods. They are detectable at solar distances by our instruments. "This is such a station. Two men were assigned to man it -- dedicated men, prepared to wait out the long years of the vigil -- watching for an event of only remote statistical likelihood -- for space is wide and worlds are many. One of the two men was Algoric. I, Gonyl, was the other." G O ON," Mallory said. "If there are alien invaders -- or an alien infection -- I suppose there could be extraterrestrial undercover agents watching for them. But what went wrong? How did they get past you?" The old man seemed not to notice Mallory's question. "We were intrigued when we realized that this world bore a native human population. We chose this area for its remoteness -- near the heart of an almost empty continent. The year was eighteen-twenty-seven. We felt we had chosen well. The histories of human cultures on numberless worlds led us to predict that a thousand years would pass before the creeping settlement of the land reached us. "We soon realized our error. We should have acted at once to transfer our installation to a still more remote area: Alaska, Siberia, Antarctica. But we were norIF mal men. We were reluctant to exile ourselves in a frozen tundra. We rationalized. We accomodated. In the end "we welcomed the availability of the society of our own kind. We used our equipment to decorate and furnish our spartan station in a style aping that of the distant centers of such local civilization as existed. We constructed gardens and a road, learned the local speech. We were still young, possessed of limitless wealth in synthesized gold. Life was rich -- even here on a primitive planet so far from our birthworld. Our house was filled with music, gaiety, the loveliest of women, the cleverest of men. We had the finest wines, the best foods. We hunted, we danced, we entertained. And time passed. "Algoric was the first to see what was coming. We had watched the advance of the native culture from the Age of Wood to the Age of Coal in two of your brief generations. Your population had quadrupled and already the first telegraphs were in use. The experiments in internal combustion, electric power and wireless told us that in another few decades your technology would have outstripped the capacity of our initial security arrangements. It was plain that soon we would have to find a new site, rebuild our monitor beacon in such a way as to preserve its undetectibility. "Plain to me, that is. Algoric laughed at me. You see -- he had come to love a native woman. He would not leave her. The threat of the Mone, he said, was no more than a fever fancy, a madman's delusion. Even those who had sent us here reckoned the chances at no more than one in called on to raise the alarm. He would be a fool to throw his life away for that remote eventuality. " 'In exile. I've built a new existence,' " he railed at me. " 'Would you have me leave it behind now to camp on some desolate ice sheet and wait a thousand years in loneliness for that which will never come?' " "I was insistent. He was adamant. In the end we fought. "I was a powerful man in those days. But he was more powerful, and driven to a frenzy by lust for his native woman. He left me here for dead and, after smashing such of the equipment as he could reach without my help, fled with her. "But I survived -- broken, crippled, shattered, yet alive. The machines that would have repaired me, maintained my youth and health, were smashed beyond repair, but I was able in time to reactivate the scanning beacon and renew the vigil. "I closed the house. And to protect myself from casual intrusion, modified the exterior to present the appearance of neglect and abandonment, erected protective fields that projected an aura of desolation and confusion. Against Algoric my measures were more specific. I set up a tuned band that would affect only his specific cortical pattern -- that would drive him mad with pain if he came within the interdicted distance. Algoric approached. Eacji time I heard his telepathic calls to me, his frantic pleas to be allowed to return. The woman was long dead. His folly had turned to bitter ashes. But though my heart was torn I was adamant. He had broken the sacred oath. I could no longer trust him. "One day I detected a faint echo from deep space. I monitored it, watched it grow until there was no longer any doubt: A Mone space pod had passed the orbit of Pluto and was falling sunward with gradually increasing velocity. An short, the dreaded day was approaching. The Mone was here. "I knew at once what I must do. The transmitter forming the heart of this station is so designed that it cannot be activated by a single mind. The complex code IF key that unlocks its mighty forces consists of two complementary, interlocking concept-grids. I had been entrusted with one. Algoric possessed the other. "I alone had detected the approaching menace -- but the efforts of both of us were required to alert the Great Worlds to our danger. "We had once been close friends, Algoric and I. We knew the patterns of each other's minds well enough to maintain contact over planetary distances. I called to him -- and he came. "I knew the risk I was taking but there was no choice open to me. I dropped my protective barriers, allowed him to enter. For the first time in half a century we stood face to face. "I told him that the past must be forgiven, our differences forgotten. Our duty now was plain -- to join in sending the translight pulse that would bring a Galactic force to burn out the infection before it could spread. "But he refused. Against all duty and tradition of the Watchers, he refused. We had lost enough, he said, sacrificed enough. Now it was too late to save the planet -- the Galactic force would arrive to find only the Mone's abandoned spawning ing sites perched on the sterile rock of a looted world. And even if the pods had not yet been broadcast, planet-wide sterilization would be required to destroy the ripening spore pods. And in that holocaust we too would die. "Instead, he babbled, we should use the capability of the no-space transmitter to escape from this doomed world to a place of safety. There were a thousand planets on which we could disappear into the population mass, regain all the benefits of the Great Civilization given up when we had volunteered so long ago. "I refused -- as he must have known I would. He demanded that I deliver to him my portion of the code symbol -- and when I would not, he raged, begged, wheedled. In the end he would have killed me -- but I laid hands on a hidden weapon and, as he struck me down, I shot him. "I fell. He did not, though I think my shot struck home. I lost consciousness and when I reawakened, he was gone. My head was clearer then. Too late, I saw the folly of what I had done. Algoric gone -- alone -- and I dying. Who now would stand between the Mone and a helpless world? But perhaps he would return. With great difficulty I managed to deploy the life-support cage and place myself in it, as you see me now. I called to him. There was a faint response, dim and far away. I called again -- again and again, as I summoned strength. Sometimes I sensed a response, sometimes nothing. And I waited. "And now -- instead of Algoric, a stranger." The old man's head slumped back; his skeletal hands twitched as if to clutch at some vanished opportunity. "Algoric," he muttered. "If I could but have known -- " "Algoric's dead, Gonyl," Mallory said sharply. "You and I are stilt alive. What can we do?" Gonyl made an animal sound of despair. "Nothing -- nothing. Human weakness, criminal weakness. And yet -- could you have known Riane in her youth -- " "Riane," Mallory murmured. "It seems to me Tve heard that name." "Tall, graceful as a willow, eyes of that strange, pale blue, hair black as Zenith. A better man than Algoric would have counted a world well lost for her. And yet, if only my own faith been stronger -- " "I remember now," Mallory frowned thoughtfully. "In the dream the stories Uncle Al used to tell me -- " Mallory broke off, his face tight. "The dream -- this house -- and Uncle Al. The clothes he wore -- " "Yes, yes?" Gonyl was staring up at him, perplexed. "What?" "Old man," Mallory said, "I have a hunch my imaginary Uncle and your friend Algoric were the same man." stand," Gonyl said. "The house you've described seeing in your dream is, of course, this house as it was half a century ago -- as it was when Algoric had last seen it. His appearance to you was, of course, a telepathic contact, not a true dream." "Why? How?" "There must have been a reason," Gonyl said. "Algoric was not a man given to caprice -- " He looked at Mallory, startled. "Of course -- That's the likeness I saw. You have his eyes, his mouth, his bearing." "Are you trying to tell me that Algoric was my father?" "Not your father. But your grandfather, perhaps -- or your great-grandfather. Of course. No wonder he took an interest in you, visited you in the mind if not in the flesh -- " "Why not in the flesh? God knows I could have used a relative. I Was brought up an orphan." "Riane must have aged and died long, long ago. His family would have grown to adulthood while he aged not at all. In the end it would have been necessary for him to 'die' or disappear, to be believed dead, never to IF reappear. But he could have maintained knowledge of his descendants. He could have seen to your care and established a mindlink with you in infancy, before the pattern of acculturation made such contact impossible." "Could have, yes. But why?" "Why not? Algoric was a man like other men. Though he had powers most do not possess. But -- " "But what?" "There must hav been another reason. He had told you of this station so that you sensed my call -- my need of you." Gonyl's expression was one of dawning hope. "He abandoned his post but perhaps he had a change of heart about his duty. It's possible that he selected you to carry on if he should fail. Why lead you here unless you brought with you the thing I need?" "All I brought was myself," Mallory said. "And it looks as if that's not going to help." "Of course you're not consciously aware of it -- but have it you must -- buried in your mind, waiting for the time when it would be needed. And the time is now." "You'd better spell it out, old man." "The code pattern, Jeff Mallory. The missing half of the key that will unlock the transmitter. You have it -- you must have it." "Sorry. I wouldn't know a code pattern if it crawled up my leg." "It would be deeply buried, inaccessible to any ordinary probe. But you can uncover it." "If I can -- I don't know how." "Find a chair. Sit here beside me, close enough that I may touch you. Then close your eyes, relax your body. And remember, remember -- " L eaning back in the big wooden chair he had brought down from the kitchen, Mallory listened to the whispering voice, letting his thoughts rove back in time... It was night. The lights had been dimmed in the hall outside the big bedroom where he lay in his bed, one of four in the highceilinged room. The others were already asleep. He could hear their soft breathing in the dark. But he lay awake, watching the moon through the branches of a leafless tree outside the curtained window. It had been a cold, wintry day. The afternoon ball game had been canceled and instead there had been "music appreciation" in the library under the watchful eye of the tutor. And afterward; at dinner. Miss Wincher had read aloud another chapter of David Copperjield. It made him unhappy to think about David Copperfield. It was pleasanter to think of Uncle Al. Perhaps Uncle AI would come again soon -- tonight? "Yes," came the whisper. "Uncle Al will visit you tonight." And he was there by the bed, a tall wide figure. His jaw was square, his smile merry, his eyes ruffles in the opening of the velvet-collared coat and more ruffles at the cuffs. A heavy gold chain crossed the flowered silk of Uncle ATs vest and rings sparkled on his fingers. "Ah, Jeff, lad," he said, in the deep rumbling voice. "Where shall we go tonight?" "To the house. Uncle Al." "Right you are! Let's be off." ly. K 'T IF  He was drifting beside Uncle full of moonlight and, far below, Al. Uncle AI was strolling unconthe earth was like a game-board cernedly along, smoking a big spreading to the horizon and set black cigar, just as though there out with toy houses and roads and were solid ground under his feet forests. They swept higher, sailing instead of open air. The sky was down through great moonlit cloud canyons, soaring like birds with no more effort than a tilt of the hand for steering. Then they swooped into graceful descent. The house stood on a hilltop, blazing with light. There were carriages on the curved drive; glossy horses pranced, snorting mist from their nostrils. Men in high hats and capes, women in bright gowns, crossed the wide veranda, entered through the open door under the jeweled fanlight. They passed through the wall, not bothering with the door -- a trick young Mallory had always meant to ask about. Then they were in the room where the magic machine rested on its platform, a thing of lights and planes and glittering complexities. "There it waits," Uncle AI said. "In vain -- we hope. And yet -- some day they may come. And they're villains, Jeff, lad. We mustn't let them carry out their schemes, eh? No one but you and I know about them, Jeff -- you and I and one other. That's our secret, you see, the secret we must never tell. "Now, these scoundrels we watch for -- they always send their calling card ahead. It's not a thing you or I can see, lad. But the machine can see it. And when it does -- if it does -- it tells us. And we know what to do, eh, Jeff?" "I'm not sure. Uncle Al. That part's hard. It's not as much fun as the rest. It makes my head hurt." "A bright head like yours, Jeff? The head of a lad who can fly, walk through walls and share the secret of the machine? Nonsense. Your head can do it, boy. Try! With me, now -- first we picture the primary matrix, thus -- " It was like remembering the whole multiplication table all at once -- like thinking of every move in a chess game at the same time -- like looking at the parts of a jigsaw puzzle laid out on a table and seeing in one glance where each part fit every other part. "I can't. Uncle Al. The first part slides away when I try to fit the next piece." "Slowly, lad, one segment at a time. Make it, build it, fix it in place. Then go on to the next -- like this -- " It was like balancing a chair on two legs on a high wire -- like catching mist in your hands. There was no one in the world but himself and Uncle Al. There were no walls, roof, sky -- no space. Only the bright, intangible abstractions, the elusive configurations that slipped aside, dissolved, shifted into new shapes. But, urged and guided by the deep, friendly voice, he tried and tried again. And at last the parts began to fall into place, their IF shifting and. flowing tamed. Suddenly the matrix flowered about him, as beautiful and as complex as the anatomy of an orchid diagramed in light. "That's it, Jeff, lad. Good. Good. Now hold it. Don't let it slip away while we move on to the secondary pattern." Thoughts were coral shapes cast in lead, soft and gray and impossibly heavy. He pushed and tugged at them with fingers of smoke while eons passed. And one by one he intertwined form with intricate form, erecting a structure of concept that overlay the glowing matrical pattern as flesh overlays bones. He was tired -- so tired! It was a task that had gone on forever, that would never end. Somewhere, far away and unreal, was an easier, softer existence, remote now as forgotten dreams. But for him there was only the ever-accelerating, outgrowing mosaic that seemed to swell now of its own dynamic growth-urge, completing itself like a living creature that drives from embryo to maturity under the relentless pressure of genetic compulsion. And at last it was complete. He gazed, bemused, on the blinding beauty of the fifth-order Galactic code complex, listening as Uncle AI gave him his instructions. Then blackness descended over him, washing him down, down. into welcoming Nirvana... consciousness. He tried to weave the thin, insistent voice into a dream in which he drifted without thought or care over a rosy landscape spreading far below. But what he heard was not Uncle Al's comforting rumble -- this was someone else, some intruder who would drag him back to face bleak reality. But he would not go. He had earned his rest. "Wake up, Jeff Mallory," the voice crackled. "Wake up." He opened his eyes. For an instant -- before the last of the dream concept dissolved -- he saw the room as a curiously temporary arrangement of energy quanta in the form called matter, shaped as an environment for the curious protoplasmic aggregations known as human beings. Then there was a shifting. The ceiling was only a ceiling. The walls were just walls. And the old man who looked at him from burning eyes -- what was he? "You have it," Gonyl said. "I saw it in your face." "Maybe," Mallory said vaguely. "I saw things -- remembered things I hadn't thought of in years. Things I wouldn't have believed I could ever forget." "Now we must act quickly. Wheel me across to the rectangle you see incised on the floor -- there." The old man pointed with a trembling finger at the spot. "Not so fast, Gonyl," Mallory said. "Give me time to collect my thoughts." "I can spare no time now, Jeff Mallory. Wheel me to the platform." "You're in a little too much of a hurry, Gonyl. I want -- " "To perdition with what you want," Gonyl spat the words. "Must you force me to extreme measures?" The impact in Mallory's brain was like a silent blow from a hammer made of ice. Light and darkness whirled chaotically. Through the maelstrom, Gonyl's voice cut sharp and clear: "While you dozed, I took the precaution of establishing a control pattern over your brain, Jeff Mallory. You will do as I command you. Now." The blindness cleared. Mallory's head rang with a high, insistent humming. His fingertips felt numb, his limbs remote. He found himself standing, moving to the wheeled cot on which the old man lay, turning it, rolling it across to the indicated position. Now... Gonyl's voice spoke inside his head, a firm and resonant voice, such as the feeble quaver might once have been. The platform stirred underfoot. They were dropping down through a blackwalled shaft into darkness. Abruptly light blossomed around them as the platform came to rest at the side of a gray-walled passage. "That way," Gonyl commanded. Numbly Mallory wheeled the cart along the corridor to the left, emerged into a circular chamber, empty except for a black drum at its center. Above the squat black cylinder a mote of light came into being. It grew brighter, expanding into a dazzling sphere of glowing mist which solidified, glazed over, became a mirror-bright sphere eight feet in diameter that rested on the pedestal at the center of the room. Gonyl uttered a strange, croaking sigh. Again Mallory felt the touch of the old man's thoughts among his own. Now, Jeff Mallory... At once, the key pattern formed in his mind, met and matched the counterpattern... The polished surface of the sphere blushed over as if a breath of moisture-laden air had touched it. Color flickered and darted across its face. A point of utter blackness came into existence at the center of the convexity he and the old man faced. It dilated, spreading swiftly outward until only a glowing rim remained to encompass a disk of blackness sprinkled with sparkling points of IF light like a circular window looking out onto the night sky. "Place me inside," Gonyl ordered. "Now, Jeff lad," Uncle Al's voice spoke clearly in Mallory's mind. It was as if a door had opened, flooding his brain with a crystalline light. In utmost clarity he saw the contours of the abstraction that was Jiis mind field, saw how it was gripped in a web of thought force, saw how and where to touch it. And was free. "All right," he addressed the withered mask of amazement and dawning fear that stared up at him. "I've heard all your lies, Gonyl. Now tell me the truth." tornorrow's Gross National Product, an animalistic numbers game played for sin and salvation, life and death. worlds in a daring story of sex, seed and survival. a socio-sexual problem. You will recognize, among his androids, some of your best friends -- and their striving to be human. ment of a racist's supersoul -- not a nice story but a necessary one. She is # and this is her first fiction submission anywhere -- although she initially attempted an sf story at the age of #. She has spent the intervening years polishing her thoughts and her style. The job she has on the launching pad in this month's IF has a fine patina and her target lies at a harder reach than the moon. But some day heaven may alter her den through the night. The sky was black, moonless, but stars shone faintly through the heavy atmosphere. Two walked ahead with torches to light the way and frighten away the jungle beasts. Two walked behind with their precious burden, the dying body of an old man. His name was Gorofin and he was as yet unaware that this was to be his last night on his beloved planet. It was his judgment time. his sleep he was still tired. He lay quietly, eyes closed. His failing heart beat erratically. His lungs wheezed and struggled for each painful breath. He stirred and felt tiny, sharp objects digging into his back. Something was wrong. The silence, the objects he was lying on -- this could not be his familiar hut. The silence about him was absolute. He strained his ears but could not hear the usual jungle sounds. The sleepy fog in his brain began to lift and slowly he opened his eyes. Before him loomed a tall white candle. It was fully six feet in height and one foot in diameter. Its orange flame burned steadily. objects that reflected the orange Walls encrusted with more of the crystalline objects sloped away on all sides. Jewels, he thought. I'm in the Cave of Jewels, where all Samponi are brought to die... The old man felt a chill run through him. His bony, clawlike fingers clenched and unclenched. Another chill hit him. He stretched out a wrinkled, trembling hand to pull the white robe over his exposed feet. In doing so, he raised his head and shoulders and fell back, exhausted. His straining heart beat like a jungle drum. Through half-closed eyes he watched the candle burn. Little beads of wax rolled down its sides and were gradually forming foothills around the base of the candle. Some beads dropped with little plopping noises. Amazing -- it's so quiet I can even hear the wax drop from a candle... As the candle burns, so does your life... The words of the ancient legend began to come back to him. Gorofin had not thought of the legend in many years, not since he had been forced to learn it as a child. In fact, he hadn't thought of much else besides beautiful women, black wine, and long days spent by the emerald lake. It has been a good life, he reflected. But now it must end. Now I must sleep... Gorofin closed his eyes and thought back to the years when he was a young man, strong and handsome and much adored by the women of the Samponi tribe. He had been the best dancer in the village and had preferred entertaining the women to going out on the hunt with the village men. For this he had been disliked by many men but their opinion had not bothered him. He had lived only to please women, to fish and dream away the long idyllic days of the planet's eternal summer. The Samponi led a simple life, as did all the tribes on the junglecovered planet. Food was plentiful and war was unknown. Gorofin's had been a happy existence -- and a long one. The average lifespan was three hundred and seventy years. Gorofin had lived long- er than most. He was four hundred years old. He sighed. The Jewels under his back had become like burrowing needles. He looked again at the candle. It was a few inches shorter and the foothills of wax were growing. In the last hours of your life shall the candle flicker and the Eyes of Flame come to judge you... The old man dozed. He slept while the candle burned down and down until it was a mere stump of what it had been. modically. He glanced around, terrified. Something was different. He looked at the pile of melted wax and saw the flame flicker. It began to change color, from orange to red to green and back to orange. It Jumped and danced like something possessed. A sharp chill hit him. It raced down his back and legs. He began to shiver uncontrollably. He shut his eyes tightly and began silently to recite the words of the ancient legend. At first they came easily, though he had not thought of them in more than three hundred years. And it shall come to pass that on the last day of your mortal life you shall be placed in the Cave of Jewels, dressed in a white robe. And the Jewels of the cave shall be lit by one large candle to symbolize the shortness of the mortal flame. As the candle burns, so does your life. In the last hours of your life shall the candle flicker and the Eyes of Flame come to judge you. If you are found wanting the Eyes of Flame shall speak appropriate punishment befitting the scope of your sins... There was more but the rest escaped him. Something about a Planet of Hell. What was it? Gorofin's heart raced frantically and his breath came in wheezing gasps. His fear knew no limits, for IF he had never believed the old legend. As a child he had joked about it. His mother had scolded him, aghast at his blasphemy. Memories burned in the old man's mind. Gorofin opened his eyes and the Eyes of Flame looked at him. They hung above the candle, two giant orbs the color of the flame that danced wildly beneath them. Gorofin was trembling convulsively, sharp chills wracking his body. His dark eyes were bulging and his once golden skin had turned the grayish white of death. His heart threatened to beat itself to a pulp. And then, suddenly, the chills passed and a delicious ease flowed through his aching body. The pain in his lungs vanished and his thudding heart slowed until he could no longer feel its beat. Gorofin relaxed and let the coolness pervade every cell of his body. The flame of the candle was now only a foot from the floor. Gorofin no longer cared about the candle or the Eyes of Flame. He felt content, tranquil and at peace. The Eyes spoke. Gorofin... There was no voice, really, no sense of speaking. Just a hearing, like hearing one's own thoughts. He answered aloud with the proper words. "'Yes, Eyes of Flame and Bearer of Eternal Life, I am your servant." Gorofin,  have come to judge you. Do you feel that you are worthy of Eternal Life? The old man was quite sleepy now. He wanted only to sleep, sleep forever. He fought off the desire with great effort, knowing instinctively that he could not sleep until he had been judged. He thought a long time before he answered. "I don't know. I never believed in you until now. Does that make me unworthy?" Not entirely. Many are like you -- souls who wasted their mortal lives with idle dreams and constant indulgence in the pleasures of the flesh.  have forgiven worse than you. I demand only that you feel a sincere repentance for your sinful life and ask forgiveness of those who judge you... "Those?" We are many who speak. But we speak as one... Gorofin, since he felt no sincere repentance, could not bring himself to say the words that would bring him Eternal Life. Besides, he knew he could not lie to the Eyes of Flame, for they could see into the deepest recesses of his mind. "I cannot ask your forgiveness, for I do not feel that I have led a sinful life. I did not believe in you because I was born with a mind that demanded facts to back up what was presented to me as truth. I was a dreamer. I did not go on the hunt, but stayed in the village or fished in the lake. I do not feel it was a wasteful life, for I brought joy to many, women." Joy? You brought joy? You charmed the maidens and spoiled them for their husbands. You did not go on the hunt because you were lazy. And you refused to do any meaningful work to improve the lot of your village and your tribe. Your life was full of sins. Gorofin, think again... The old man felt a great sadness for he knew that if he had his life to live over he would live it as he had. He felt no repentance. Gorofin, do you know of the Planet of Hell? "I have heard of it, but I cannot remember exactly what the legend says about it." Then I will ref resh your memory. There is a planet not of this galaxy where souls are sent for punishment. The souls on that planet suffer unimaginable agonies. Agonies that the people of this world could not begin to visualize -- such things as war, starvation, disease and mental agonies beyond belief. It is the only planet of its kind in this universe. Other universes hold similar planets. They all serve the same purpose. Do you wish to be sent there? "No, of course not." I will give you one more chance. It will be your last. You may have a few minutes to search your conscience before I ask for your answer... Gorofin was silent for many minutes. The candle was now a pile of wax and the flame was almost out. The Eyes watched him, pulsating slightly. The flame of the candle became dimmer. Coolness overtaking him made it difficult for him to think. I now ask for your answer. Do you repent of your sins and ask the forgiveness of those who judge you? Gorofin replied, searching out each word carefully, "I wish I could please you by responding in the manner you wish me to. But in all honesty I cannot ask your forgiveness for sins which I do not feel I committed. My answer is the same." The old man sighed as he fejt the remnants of life drain from his body. The Eyes, the candle and the cave began to recede from his vision. He felt himself sinking into a quiet, swirling blackness. The voice that was no voice but rather an intimate realization reached him in his last moments. Gorofin, you have been judged and found wanting. We are all agreed on your sentence. You are banished to the Planet of Hell, there through miserable suffering to learn perfection and truth. For only through your soul's perfection will you achieve Eternal Life. May you learn well... The flame died. green planet was lovely. But its beauty was deceiving. East of the Pacific but west of the Atlantic, south of the Great Lakes but north of the Gulf of Mexico, .on a sunny day in June, a Hawkins. He was a beautiful baby, with skin as black as coal. They named him Gordon.  IF (Continued from page #) could have equaled it for comderstanding of what went on in pleteness. If future students ever those days of growth from our need a work dealing with this pewild youth to our somewhat reriod in a microcosmic field as spectable early maturity. rich as this, they will find all they A case in point is the affair of need in the book. The price is Claude Degler or John Chrisman. fairly stiff for such a book but I read a whole set of diatribes amply justified. There are picabout and by Degler at the time tures of many of the major fans and I've watched a myth grow of the era -- and I'm still puzzled around this fan that still conabout how Harry managed to find tinues to spread in science fiction, some of them. An excellent work I met the young man at the Philof its kind, con in # -- before I knew that with was really Claude Degler. find that most major work All I can say is that he was then done in the last few months is doing nothing that earned him more in the field of fantasy than the treatment he received when in straight science fiction. The Bob Tucker recognized him, and major piece of news for readers him in fairly general conversation, beyond what science may some (I do recognize, however, that a day do is the recent announcelot of his writing as Degler had ment that Ballantine Books is been as wild as legend makes it.) scheduling a series of adult fanHarry Warner covers the Degtasies. These will bring back into ler-Chrisman episode at considerprint some of the great novels that able length -- and with a fair have long needed publication in amount of detail I had never been soft covers. Lin Carter is acting as able to discover before. I think editor of the series, this is the first time the matter The first book in the group is has been made public in a way The Blue Star, by Fletcher Pratt that I can accept as an honest at(Ballantine Books, #:). This tempt to find the truth. originally appeared in one of the This is a book that deserves to Twayne Triplets in #, where it be treated as a work of considercould never have received the able scholarship in the field and readership it deserved, as a piece of serious history. I can Fletcher Pratt was a gallant think of no other man who could and beloved friend of mine but I have done as good a job and few was never impressed with his science fiction. I had always considered him a writer of fact rather than fiction. He had, of course, collaborated with L. Sprague de Camp on a series of delightful stories for Unknown but I rather assumed that these were largely written by de Camp. Then I read The Blue Star. It knocked my preconceptions to shards. Pratt was a magnificent writer of fiction, a superb stylist, and a man who could form an integrated concept of a world and a whole set of people that exceeded the grasp of most novelists. This is a universe that might have been, where the laws of nature differ from those recognized and have their effects on the rules governing human conduct. But while one is reading about it the world he describes is far more real than many found in the contemporary novel scene. The book deals with witchcraft -- but a witchcraft which offers nothing without payment in full. And it gives a world history that I still find more convincing in fact and feel than almost anything Tve known in the worlds of science fiction. Unfortunately, it begins with a rather pointless and stilted prologue to set the scene and reverts in the end to a somewhat better but needless epilogue. But if the reader will skip them completely, nothing will be lost. It was after reading this novel that I began desperately looking for another I had missed, though I knew that George U. Fletcher was the pennarrie of Pratt. This book is also currently available, and should be a must for every sword-and-sorcery fan who likes an adult handling of such material. The Well of the Unicorn, by Fletcher Pratt (Lancer Books, #(t), may well be the best otheruniverse story written before the Tolkien books became popular. It's a brawling, boisterous and completely delightful story of a young man who sets out to overcome the forces of empire in a vaguely Scandinavian world -- and who accomplishes his aim with the help of Meliboe, an enchanter. The book was written by a man who was an expert on real history and real warfare. Background details -- including an askew view of the religion of the world, something too often neglected -- and the characterizations are rich and compelling to an adult reader. These two other-world creations of Fletcher Pratt represent all of his fiction in novel form that I can recommend. But two such fine books would have been enough to make a splendid reputation as a novelist for any other man and I'm delighted to see them both in print. Moondust, by Thomas Burnett IF Swann (Ace, #(t), is another matter. Swann has done some excellent "historical" fantasy in the past. His stories of the Etruscans and their godlings have faltered at times but have contained high moments. Swann generally has displayed an excellent feeling for the unexpected but logical development that makes good fantasy worth reading. This novel shows neither the delights in invention nor poignant feelings that have previously been so strong in his work. The nonhuman and semihuman creatures here arouse no warmth and hardly any compassion. The invented background doesn't blend in smoothly with real history. It sticks in the craw on the way down and then keeps upsetting the stomach after it has finally been swallowed. This is basically the story of the fall of the walls of Jericho. It begins in the tent of Joshua outside those walls. But don't expect the account to deal with Hebrew myths. The action carries rapidly into the city to involve a series of events somehow mixed up with Cretan and Egyptian beliefs. Then it leaves all traces of the world of its time behind and goes underground -- literally -- to a world of intelligent beasts that are the masters of the arcane knowledge of the time. These are simply ugly and unrewardingly dull. The story of Rahab, the harlot of Jericho, and her demoniac possession might have held at least some poignancy. But I could find very little here. Partly, this was because the first-person narrator in the story seemed to lack any real understanding that she had any feelings of her own. In the end, of course, the walls tumble and Joshua triumphs. It really doesn't matter, since he's of no great importance to the tale and since so little of this concerns either him or the real people of the city. Any author can be forgiven for a slip now and then. But we don't have to buy such slips. And this is a book better left unread if you have enjoyed Swann's other work. Somewhat closer to science, fiction is a series of stories that tell of a swordsman on another world, much like the exploits of John Carter on Barsoom. Priest Kings of Gor, by John Norman (Ballantine Books, #d:), is the third in this serieS,and surprisingly better than might have been expected. The first two in the series were far too close to the Burroughs stories in detail and handling and far too distant from them in talent. They deal with Tarl Cabot, who is snatched from Earth to another world, where he becomes a mighty swordsman and battle chief. This time the planet is a counter-Earth, and # " around the sun from Earth, and hence invisible to us. (Its effect on other planets would be noticed, however, so we could spot it. Anyhow, such an orbit is a lot harder to negotiate than a trip to Mars or Venus.) There we have the usual panoply of primitive races at war with each other, run by a distant set of priests. There are the strange beasts and the stranger women who are the prizes of the fighting men. The first two books left me feeling it was just Barsoom-Pah! Tarl Cabot goes through the usual routine of falling in love, rescuing the damsel, and then being shot back to Earth just as he should be settling down to a happy life of Surprisingly, the third book begins to take on a life of its own. Much of the beginning is still somewhat routine in its plotting, but the action moves convincingly and Cabot begins to come alive and develop some characteristics of his own. He has been Hero -- now he becomes Hero with feelings and attitudes of his own. He goes off in search of his mate but it soon begins to look as if this is more duty than desire. His desires humanly begin to attach themselves to other and far more interesting females along the way. And his powers begin to shape into more believable and personal ones than the cut-and-slash skill that seemed his only virtue before. The real story develops when he finally penetrates the lair of the priest kings of Gor, the counterEarth. If we were prepared for the usual set of human but evil practitioners of a false religion that controls the planet, we soon find we were wrong. These priest kings are a lot closer to Brackett than to Burroughs. They definitely are not human and their philosophy is alien to anything Cabot has found before. Naturally, there is a war between sides, with Cabot as the pivot. But it isn't as cut-and-dried as his other battles, and the humans and almost-humans mixed up with him begin to develop individuality. The priest race becomes the real center of interest. And in the end, after a scene that involves emotion rather than motion, the whole affair is far more mature and interesting than could be expected. I don't know how much further Norman can go with his series, since he has used up the chief mystery of the planet. But this is a fairly good adventure story, and I'll be interested in watching his development from now on. If he can continue doing his own work instead of what seems pure imitation, he might well capture the basic interest that was what we really felt about Barsoom. IF a name known to science-fiction readers, though I suspect fewer know him than should. He was an avid fan of the field when he was a youngster and his letters can still be found in some of the old back issues. He showed promise of becoming an enfant terrible. Then he disappeared into the maw of World War H. He came back determined to be a writer. He wrote war books and flying books and space books. He became one of the leading writers we were together several times on an all-night radio program. The last time I met him, he was talking about being determined to write a work of fiction -- science fiction. I never doubted that he would. After making much of his reputation and inhaule.d off and wrote a book attacking much of what they were doing because he was convinced his views should be expressed. The work came out as Marooned (Bantam, #, #(t). And while it was not a great piece of science fiction it was better than a lot of books that were reviewed favorably in the book columns. But it was not labeled as science fiction, and a lot of readers never knew it belonged in our field. Now he has another book: The God Machine, by Martin Caidin (Bantam, #(t). In many ways this is a smoother piece of fiction, displaying better development of his characters than found in his earlier work. But the book has something more and indicates that Caidin was again doing something he felt had to be done. The story deals briefly with the men who have created the master computer that will handle all our war efforts. Into this computer has gone everything we know and, to protect it from human tampering, it has been made almost invulnerable and totally autocratic. The "hero" is a computer-man who begins to suspect that the robot is actually taking over the men supposed to control it as well as leading the world straight to nuclear catastrophe. The story deals with the efforts of the computer and the man to kill each other. And Caidin knows enough about both sides to make the fight a good one. But underlying the action is the feeling that Caidin is mainly trying to tell us how it really is in the world of burgeoning military power. But at the end the message is not complete. The hero has to stage his final fight for story purposes. And while the device is ingenious, it seems contrived. During that fight the main theme suffers badly. The book is worth reading. And if -- as I hope -- Martin Caidin will go on to handle his basic theme more completely in either a sequel or another novel of unrecognized science fiction, it may be worth looking for. Caidin is not yet a really firstclass novelist. But if I know him -- and if he'll get to know himself a little better -- I'd hate to take any bets against his turning out to be the absolute master of most who are now recognized in either science fiction or the mainstream as major novelists. He's learning to transfer his inner intensity to the printed page. And in an era where compassion too often substitutes weakly for passion, that is a talent much to be prized. it Readers write -- and wrong! Dear Editor: Has Arthur C. Clarke let his dreams of joining the higher-reputation bracket of scientists go to his head? Has he forsaken all his many sciencefiction fans of yesterday and today? I wonder about this because a new printing -- the tenth U.S. printing -- of his Childhood's End bears a legend on the copyright page saying "the opinions expressed in this book are not those of the author." Or it could be this not indicates that he is sliding toward the new wave fiction, with its false teachings away from science. I think real science and such things as the Apollo moon trip have been increasing the interest in science fiction and will continue to do so. I came to the reading and enjoyment of science fiction about #, and since then the field seems to be trying to get away from the whole idea on which it was based. (I'm trying to complete my collection, and desperately attempting to find the April # 'first issue of Amazing Stories!) I look back on Clarke's "Against the Fall of Night" as one of the most enjoyable stories I happened to buy in the magazines. I cannot see why he should be other than proud of the expanded version, Childhood's End. I can't understand his disclaimer. And while Clarke seems to be flying away from science fiction, what about Isaac Asimov? The first of his two published Caves oj Steel novels was back in Galaxy for #. He still owes us a third and final novel. I hope it is forthcoming. Last year, the British Science Journal ran a special issue on robots and had the good Dr. Asimov round it off with his summary of his laws of robotics from his earlier stories. This is a monthly journal devoted almost entirely to the fields of hard science. It is the first science journal that I've seen which publishes s-f book reviews. I think that is something! When I heard that the British author John Wyndham had recently passed away, I had just finished a story from a # magazine entitled "The Living Lies," by John Beynon (whom IF I believe must have been J.B. Harris, or John Wyndham), It was great science fiction and I shall miss his stories. With his passing, I feel we have lost a master of science fiction, one of the few who handled this genre real well. Now to get to the main point of writing this letter, which is to suggest a few ideas on letters to the editor. For example, how about a new magazine from the Galaxy family with a whole issue dedicated to -- you guessed it -- letters to the editor, covering all past issues of the magazines you have published? Can you see the idea? Well, if not, let's have some fun like that in Stories. They had grand letter departments. -- Edward M. Osachie, # West #th, Vancouver #, B.C., Canada. And after we finish with the letterzine, maybe we can bring out a magazine with letters dealing only with letters about the letters we publish, and after that... Nope, can't see it. But we could use some of the Old Surge's zest or the great fights that took place in the letters to Planet Stories. Start shooting. Clarke's disclaimer was probably just self-defense against all the sapheads who took the ending of the book to mean that he was one of them and that he meant We All Must Be Saved By The Great Ones From Beyond. That basic idea made for good romantic fiction, but it isn't his real opinion -- despite what happened in #. Anyhow, last time I saw him a few months ago, he was still a red-hot s-f fan. As to Asimov, his failure to complete the plotted-out third novel is the result of severe writer's cramp, suffered when he is signing all the contracts high-paying fact book publishers keep forcing on him. The loss of John Beynon Harris, or John Wyndham, is one we all will feel keenly for a long time. He has been imitated much too often, but almost never equaled for the disaster story told with intensity and honesty, as well as for many other types of fiction. Dear Editor: I am continually astounded by the ignorance of some of your readers. Take for exatnple Bill Wolfenbarger, whose letter you published in your January issue. The first thing he states is that traditional s-f has been wrhten for years without style and the "new wave" introduces the concept of style in s-f. I may be ignorant of his concept of style, but I thought Henry Kuttner under his penname of Lewis Padgett had style; and J.W. C. as Don Stuart had style; or Jack Vance or Theodore Sturgeon or Cordwainer Smith or even Roger Zelazny. But he may define style as smooth-talking that covers up lousy story-telling. He goes on to call his new wavicle writers "astronauts of inncer space." I may be wrong but the only "astronauts of inner space" are called psychologists, and even some of them are on the wrong track. ' Your magazines are a nice complement to the rest of the s-f mags. Suggestions for improvement: Let Lester write some editorials; get more Niven, Harrison, Anderson, occasional essays by Moskowitz; get the coherent Zelazny; get Joe Poyer. Cut out the green pages. And most important, get the next thing Heinlein puts out. Sure wish R.A. Heinlein would hurry up and finish his superhouse. He hasn't had an original story published in # '# years and it's getting pretty hard to classify him as a contemporary s-f writer. Perhaps you should hire a task force of engineers and construction workers and get it done. I promise to yell "Vole for for a Hugo" and run through the halls of the St. Louiscon if you can get him writing again. -- Matt Hickman, # #th Street, West Des Moines, Iowa. Don't buck that "inner space," Matt. Maybe some of the new waivers do have inner space where you and  think we keep our gray matter -- if inner space is as empty as outer space. I dunno who started the "inner space" cliche, but I don't think anyone who had the least idea of good style could ever take such empty noise seriously. Anyhow, you have to realize the boys defending the new rave don't use their words with the same meaning we learned. To them, style isn't clarity and reasonable elegance: they mean tricks, such as what passes for experimental style -- and even their use of experimental is special, since they're copying, not really experimenting. If they really liked style, they might take a look at the best stylist who ever wrote science fiction, long before most of them had professors to explain such things -- Stephen Vincent Benet. He knew there was no fight between story and style; he used both. You'lh get most of your wishes, sooner or later. Lester's writing a column for Galaxy with complete editorial freedom, and the green pages are already out. As for Heinlein -- well, he finished his house without help from us, and  hear he's now doing another novel. Dear Editor: The duplication of American and Russian efforts in their space programs has often been pointed out in the press. However, the first time I have seen any mention of cooperation suggested was in the Galaxy editorial for May. Is such an event so unlikely that it could only be proposed in a science fiction magazine? I would like to see the idea plugged in newspapers the world over and put on the agenda tion is too big for any one nation to go it alone. It is more than just "bigger than both of us," as the hero used to say. Both America and Russia have had to curtail and slow down their programs because of the huge expenditure necessary. Many other nations are interested, but although prosperous in worldly terms they cannot afford to finance their own space experiments. So why not foim a League of Space, perhaps within the framework and with the cooperation of the United Nations? Why not get cracking and let our own generation experience some of the exciting possibilities? -- J. Galvin, # Windmill Crescent, Castlecroft, Wolverhampton, Staffs, England. Cooperation makes excellent sense, and in a half-hearted way it was begun. American explores the moon, Russia works on space stations: one concentrates more on Venus, the other on Mars. But that is pretty uncoordinated. Still, I'm a little uncertain about the UN angle. There's too much chance for every little nation there to throw obstacles in the way while somehow never paying freight. And can you imagine how the astronauts would be chosen? Arab bloc rejects all Jewish candidates: France turns down all who speak English; and the African bloc demands reparations for white seizure of the moon, etc. When any world organization can handle something like the Mid-East or the two Chinas, or take over the arms reduction pltin. I'll be glad to see it take over space. Until then -- well, we're doing it all wrong, but we' re at least twenty years ahead of what the UN might have done in space! IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your. friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art. Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. vanVogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Lei Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. ' r #-I from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# the edge of tomorrow...who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and damned before it was , even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # Discouilt Price...#J# #-# was he riding in a # Willys-Knight? If he was dead why wasn't he beginning a chilly half-life in the year #? And Gene Runciter -- murdered -- but sending him eerie messages from beyond the grave? Everywhere and anywhere Joe turned, in sky-writing, on a traffic ticket, graffiti, matchbook and did Joe really want to know the answer? Read this exciting, new novel that starts as an important Luna Mission and ends as a living or dying diabolical nightmare. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinister ism. lliey are daierous and Midwich must make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # #-# C. M. Kornbluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests. The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# #-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbii book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# W. Aldiss. Collected for the first time... the best SF stories of ##... AsimOv, Sheckley, MacDonald, Leiber... plus # other exciting stories... and, year, #: A Space Odyssey. This rich anthology of the year's most exciting stories from the best SF bookshelf. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# Heinlein't Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # .# DiscouitPrice...# S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessar sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What un to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi#pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# P.O. Box #, Gran Central Post OflSce, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name  address I have circled. S-I S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# Name Address  City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) An exciting collection of stories about androids -- mechanical men and women so realistic Matheson, Charles Beaumont and other sci-fi greats. # Compiled and Edited by George W. Earley with an Introduction by Ivan T. Sanderson # pages-# A Space-Age Thriller by Richard M. Garvin  Edmond G. Addeo thriller, you'll meet the man who guards this secret with his life, his brother who dares to manding officer! # A Science-Fiction Suspense Thriller by Richard Garvin  Edmond E. Addeo When Communist China develops a weapon capable of destroying objects in the air-operated entirely by parapsychology, the existence of the world hangs in the balance! Immediately the US rushes into action in a desperate attempt to stave off the holocaust. Involved are niques; spy schools and death-defying action. An action adventure story you won't be able to leave until the last page! # # Park Ave., Manhasset. N.Y. # Calif. Res. Add # Sales Tax  Include Your Zip Code Number world of the futii Take any Please accept my application for membership in the Science Fiction Book Club and rush the # books whose numbers I hare circled below. Bill me only #. plus shipping and handling, for all #. Then every month, send me the Club's free bulletin. "Things to Come", which describes coming selections. For each book I accept, I will pay only #, plus shipping and handling, unless I take an extra value selection at' a higher price. I need take only four books within the coming year and may resign at any time thereafter. delighted with my introductory package. I may return it in # days, pay nothing, owe nothing, and my membership will be canceled. Circle the numbers of the # heeks you want: # #p# # # # # # # # # # # Damon Knight. Print Name. Address. Edited by Anthony Boucher MO. A giant two-volume collection of great science fiction reading. Over # pages of exciting fiction -- four full-length novels, twelve novelettes, eight short stories by Ray Bradbury, Robert A. Helnleln, A. E. van Yogt, Pout Anderson. Arthur C. Clarke. Theodore Sturgeon. Alfred Bester. and a doxen more. Counts as I choice. Pub. ed. S#   I accept only four books counts as only a single choice! How the Clwb works: Each month it offers a really superb new science fact or fiction book at a fraction of its regular price. Even though these books sell for #, S.#S and more in their original editions, Club members get them for only # each-ln special full-length, hard-cover editions-unless you select an extra-value book at slightly higher price. And the Club tells you in advance what each monthly selection will be. During your trial membership, you agree to take as few as four books in the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. No-Risk Gwarantec: If not delighted with introductory #-book shipment, return books within # days to cancel membership. Otherwise you will be enrolled in the Club as a Trial Member. Mail coupon today to Science Fiction Book Club. Garden City, New York # City State Zip #-S# f under #, parent must sign here. (Offer good In U.S.A. only) by Kate Wilhelm. A scientist in the #rd century develops a robot with a laser eye. Pub. ed. S#.M #X#. The Fo -- d a tion Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. tltAt #. October the FM Is Too Late, by Fred Hoyle. Solar beams play havoc with time on earth. Pub. ed.S#S #. Chocky by John Wyndham. Alien powers 'posseu" small boy in shocker from author of "Day of the Triffids". #. The Past Throngk Tomorrow: "Future History" Stories, by Robert A. Heinlein. Pub. ed. SS.#S #.AWmov'sMyatcrlcs by Isaac Asimov. # lovcand-larceny meed whoduniu of the future -- puzzlen all! Pub. ed. S#A# #ia. DwcrooaVIWoos. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon, Anderson, others. Pub. ed. UM #. Twice # bv Ray Bradbury. Fourty-four stories by the Grand Master of science Action. Pub. ed. S#S Rule Golden. The Dying Man A Natural State-all complete. Pub. ed. #S #. #M#: A Spocc Odysccy by Arthur Clarke. # men and computer trigger cosmic "booby trap". Pub. ed. # #. Law Stwshlp Prom Earth by John Boyd. Young lovers flee loveless society ruled b ttoa, by Robert Silverterg.Agroupof #st century levolutionaries are banished a bOlkm years into the post. Pub. ed. #A#  ;  a startling new novella of inner space aliens The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Rey, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: For Your Information -- Willy Ley, Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IF's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room , controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and where the editors, writers and artists blast back. Dcmbr, # Vol. #, No. # Ittuo # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Frederik Rohl, Editor Emeritus Judy-lynn Benjamin , Managing Editor Lester del key. Feature Editor L. C. Murphy  Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri , Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # Easf # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #c per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright  # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Readers write -- and wrong! a letter from a guy who doesn't quite believe his senses -- who keeps trying to look behind everything he sees and listens for hidden meanings in all he hears? Who titters wetly when he talks? I've just read one of those for about the fifth time, trying to put it into printable shape and now I have it. But I can't bring myself to print it -- rfor his sake and mine. But I'll answer it. The writer admits to being "a bit suspicious" beto new ownership inevitably led to certain schedule and other complications. Despite repeated assurances that changes of date on the cover and a delayed issue did not mean that he would get fewer consecutive copies than his subscription called for, he has decided to buy us on the newsstands. That's okay. We're ahead when you buy on the stands -- you're ahead when you subscribe. Come back when you're ready and your mind's at rest. The rest of the letter has no particular pertinence -- so we file it in the round and go on. I've saved this month's space specifically for readers change of address and management. Most have rolled nicely with the punches right along with us. I particularly like the following: Dear Mr. Jakobs son: Seeing as how Hue and Cry has been miraculously preserved in the Great Changeover, I thought that I would be one of the readers to " Write -- or Wrong." And believe me, I really don't know what to say. We really haven't seen exactly what your tastes are in sf Makes it sorta hard on prospective writers, don't it? I must say, though, that from what I have heard, you seem to have good taste. A friend of mine says of the magazine you originally edited: "It usually published stories of ISCampbell didn't like." If the rates are going to be better now that you are in (Please turn to page #) I anticipate great, rollicking good times for all of us in the next decade or so, an anticipation tempered only by a minor frustration. As the old saying goes: all that blood in the gutter and me without a spoon. The springboard for my optimism is an editorial by John W. Campbell (. Analog , October, #) and if you haven't already seen a copy, don't bother. The salient points are covered here and in the November Galaxy , now at your newsstands. And the December Galaxy will bring you a brilliant novel by T. J. Bass, complete in one issue, of an Earth Society dominated by four-toed Nebishes, who are curiously -- if unintentionally -- evocative of Mr. Campbell's docile Scots. Mr. Campbell argues for a genetic study of "differences" in intelligence in U.S., based on skin color. Black and White are the words he uses -- and correctly. Considering all the places where George Washington and other prominent Caucasoids -- some of them Scots -- have slept, to call today's Afro-Americans a race would be genetically fallacious. And there is the embarrassing factor of the founder of eyed blond named White, whom some naive Caucasoids witlessly invited to attend lynchings of Negroes. Mr. White, by our genetics a Negro and by Mr. Campbell's White "Scholarly" novelist and newspaperman, wrote what many persons consider the first honest, though fairly devastating, analyses of Caucasoid "success" recorded. Skintelligence Mr. Campbell obviously must claim him on the basis of color-success -- though the late Walter Francis White would undoubtedly object wildiySkintelligence? Make sense? One is tempted to wonder what planet Mr. Campbell inhabits. After mentioning the individual achievements of a couple of Scots as proof of adaptability he writes, "The trouble is, today every effort is being made to suppress any study of difference between Black and White..." Such as, Mr. Campbell fails to point out, Chicago's Black Surgeon Daniel surgery -- the first by any surgeon anywhere in the world on a human being -- during the latter part of the nineteenth century. One difference that until recently he was denied recognition. And I suppose that in these inflated times nearly everyone knows at least to have high IQs -- one has won international recognition as an artist and a philanthropist in support of education and minorities -- and both admit to amassing their piles by understanding aire "with a tested IQ of #" whose "solid reputation for unswerving honesty has helped him build his contracting business." On what bleak and lying world is honesty priced so high? Mr. Campbell is made of strong stuff. On his planet I would rapidly the mountains eight hours after they had left the hotel. The day was only a dim paling of the sky above the ragged skyline of rock to the east when they set up their shelter in a little level spot -- a sort of nest among the granitic cliffs, ranging from fifty to three hundred meters high, surrounding them. With the approach of dawn the Udbahr natives trailing them had already begun to seek their own shelters, those cracks in the rock into which they would retreat until the relentless day had come and gone again and the light of theTiearer moon called them out. Already holed up high among the rocks, some of the males had begun to sing. "What's he saying? What do the words mean?" demanded the girl graduate student, fascinated. Her name was Willy Fairchild and in the fading light of the nearer moon she showed tall and slim, with short whitish-blond hair around a thin-boned face. He had hunted aliens on many planets. Now he had to track down the deadliest -- himself! Kiev Archad shrugged. He listened a moment. He translated: You desert me now, female Because I am crippled. And yet all my fault was That I did not lack courage. Therefore I will go now to the high rocks to die. And another will take you. For what good is a warrior Whose female forsakes him? Kief stopped translating. "Go on," said Willy. The song was still mournfully falling upon them from the rocks above. "There isn't any more," said Kiev. "He just keeps singing it over and over again. He'll go on singing until it's time to seal his hole and keep the heat from drying him up." "Oh," said Willy. "Is he really crippled, do you think?" Kiev shrugged again. "I doubt it," he said. "If he were really hurt he'd be keeping quiet, so none of the other males could find him. As it is, he's probably just hoping to lure another one of them close -- so that he can kill himself a full meal before the sun rises." She gasped. He looked at her. "Sorry," he said. "If you weren't printed with the language, maybe you weren't printed with the general info -- " "Like the fact they're cannibals? Of course I was," she said. "It doesn't disturb me at all. Cannibalism is perfectly reasonable in an environment like this where the only other protein available is rock rats -- and everything else, except humans, is carbohydrates." She glanced at one of the several moonplants growing like outsize mushrooms from the rocky rubble of the surface beside the shelter's silver walls. They had already pulled their petals into the protection of horny overhoods. But they had not yet retreated into the ground. "After all," she said into his silence, "my field's anthropropathic history. People who disturb easily just don't take that up for a study. There were a number of protein-poor areas back on Earth and so-called primitive local people became practical cannibals out of necessity." "Oh," said Kiev. He wriggled his wide shoulders briefly against the short pre-dawn chill. "We'd better be getting inside and settled. You'll need as much rest as you can get. We'll have to strike the shelter so as to start our drive at sunset." "Sunset?" She frowned. "It'll still be terribly hot, won't it? What drive?" He turned sharply to look at her. IF "I thought -- if you knew about their eating habits -- " "No," she said, interested. "No one said anything to me about drives." "We've been picking up a gang of them ever since we left the hotel," he said. "And we're protein, too, just as you say. Or at least, enough like their native protein for them to hope to eat us. Sooner or later, if there get to be enough of them, they'll attack -- if we don't drive them first." "Oh, I see. You scare them off before they can start something." "Something like that -- yes." He turned, ran his finger down the closure of the shelter and threw back the flap. "That's why Wadjik and Shant came this far with us -- so we could have four men for the drive. "Come on, we've got to get inside." She went past him into the shelter. prospecting team of Wadjik and Shant -- who would split with them next evening -- were already cozy. Johnson was hunched in his thermal sleeping bag, reading. Wadjik and Shant were at a card table playing bluet. Johnson turned his dark face to Kiev and Willy as they came in. He said, "I laid your bags out for you -- beyond the stores." "Regular nursemaid," said Wadjik without looking up from his cards. "Wad," said Johnson, quietly. "You and Shanny can shelter up separately if you want." His bare arms and chest swelled with muscle above the partly open slit of his thermal bag. He was not as big as Wadjik or Kiev but he was the oldest and knew the mountains better than any of them. "Two more cards," said Wadjik looking to Shant. The gray-headed man dealt. Kiev led the way around the card table. Two unrolled thermal bags occupied the floor space next to the entrance to the lavatory partition that gave privacy to the shelter's built-in chemical toilet. Kiev gave the one nearest to the partition to Willy and unrolled the other next to the pile of stores. The pile was really not much as a shelter divider. By merely lifting himself on one elbow, once he was in his bag, Kiev was able to see the other three bags and Johnson, reading. The card players, sitting up at their table, could look down on both Kiev and Willy -- but, of course, once it really started to heat up, they would be in their sacks too. Kiev undressed within his thermal bag, handing his clothes out as he took them off and keeping his back turned to the girl. When at last he turned to her he saw that, while she was also in her bag, she still wore a sort of light blouse or skivvy shirt -- he had no idea what the proper name for it was. "That's all right for now," he said, nodding at the blouse. "But later on you'll be wanting to get completely down into the bag for coolness, anyhow, so it won't matter for looks. And any kind of cloth between you and the bag's inner surface cuts its efficiency almost in half." "I don't see why," she answered stiffly. "They didn't tell you that either?" he asked. "Part of the main idea behind using the thermal bag is that we don't have to carry too heavy an air-conditioning unit. If you take heat from anything, even a human body, you've got to pump it somewhere else. That's what an air-conditioning unit does. But these bags are stuffed between the walls with a chemical heat-absorbent -- " He went on, trying to explain to her that the bag could soak up the heat from her naked body over a fourteen-hour period without getting so full of heat it lost its cooling powers. But the lining of the bag was built to operate in direct contact with the human skin. Anything like cloth in between caused a build-up of stored heat that would overload the bag before the fourteen hours until cool-off was over. It was not just a matter of comfort -- she would be risking heat prostration and even death. She listened stiffly. He did not know if he had convinced her or not. But he got the feeling that when the time finally came she would get rid of the garment. He lay back in his own bag, closed his eyes and tried to get some sleep. In another four hours sleep would be almost impossible even in the bags. Wadjik and Shant were fools with their cards. A man could tough out a drive with only a couple of hours of sleep; but what if some accident during the next shelter stop kept him from getting any sleep at all? He could be half dead with heat and exhaustion by the following cool-off, his judgment gone and his reflexes shot. One little bit of bad luck could finish him off. Characters like Johnson had survived in the mountains all these years by always keeping in shape. After four trips into the grounds Kiev had made up his mind to do the same thing. him. He found he had instinctively slid down into his bag and sealed it up to the neck without coming fully awake. Opening his eyes now, feeling the blasting dryness and quivering heat of the air against his already parched face, he first pulled his head down comIF pletely into the bag and took a deep breath. The hot air from above, pulled momentarily into the bag, cooled on his dust-dry throat and mouth. He worked some saliva into existence, swallowed several times and then, sitting up, pushed his head and one arm out of the bag. He found his salve and began to grease his face and neck. He glanced over at Willy as he worked. She was lying muffled in her thermal bag, watching him, her features shining with salve. "You take that shirt off?" he asked. She nodded briefly. He looked over past the deserted card table at the three other thermal bags. Johnson, encased to his nose, slept with the ease of an old prospector, his upper face placidly shining with salve. Shant was out of sight in his bag -- all but his close-cut cap of gray hair. Wadjik was propped up against a case from the stores, his heavy-boned face under its uncombed black hair absent-eyed, staring at and through Kiev. "Wad," said Kiev, "better get Shanny up out of that. He'll overload his sack in five hours if he goes to sleep breathing down there like that." Wadjik's eyes focused. He grinned unpleasantly and rolled over on his side. He bent in the middle and kicked the foot of his thermal bag hard against the side of Shant's. Shant's head popped into sight. "You go to sleep down there," Wad snarled, "and you won't live until sunset." "Oh -- sure, Wad. Sorry," Shant said, quickly A short silence fell. Wadjik had gone back to staring through unfocused eyes. Johnson woke but the only sign he gave was the raising of his eyelids. He did not move in his bag. Around them all, now, the heat was becoming a living thing -- an invisible but sentient presence, a demon inside the shelter who could be felt growing stronger almost by the second. The shelter's little airconditioner hummed, keeping the air about them moving and just below unbreathable temperature. "Kiev," said Wadjik, suddenly. "Was that old Hehog you and Willy were listening to out there, just before dawn?" "Yes," said Keiv. "This time we'll get him." "Maybe," said Kiev. "No maybe. I mean it, man." "We'll see," said Kiev. A movement came beside Kiev. Willy sat up in her bag. "Mr. Wadjik -- " "Joe. I told you -- Joe." Wadjik grinned at her. "All right. Joe. Do you mean you knew which Udbahr male that was -- the one who was singing just before Kiev and I came in?" "Sure. Didn't Kiev tell you?" Wadjik's eyes shifted for a moment to Kiev's face. "That's old Hehog you were listening to. He's picked off a couple of men in his time. And we've had him in two drives -- and lost him in both." "Lost him?" "I mean, he got away." Wadjik stared at her. "Don't you know about drives, Willy? Didn't Kiev tell you?" "He told me," said Willy. But I don't understand what you mean by got away. You couldn't very well keep him prisoner, could you? Or do you do that for a while after a drive?" "Prisoner?" Wadjik stared at her. Suddenly he gave a short, throaty laugh. "Prisoner? Did Kiev tell you we kept them prisoners?" He jolted out another laugh. "Of course we don't keep them prisoners. We kill them. That's what a drive's for -- to kill off the ones with guts enough to lead an attack at us. Prisoners?" Willy stared at him. Slowly she turned her face to stare at Kiev. Greased-up and outraged, she made a picture more ridiculous than accusing but plainly she did not realize that. "Damn you, Wad," said Johnson calmly from his bag. "Shut up. You're making trouble. drawing into her bag and turning her face away from the rest of them. Kiev drew himself down to the nose in his own sack. Silence and increasing heat held the interior of the shelter. There was no talk for a couple of hours after Johnson's words and Kiev fell into a sort of doze in spite of the heat. But with the increasing temperature even this became an impossibility -- which was a good thing. A sleeping man could instinctively pull his head down into the coolness of the thermal bag and, by breathing inside it, overload it in a few hours. Kiev came out of his semi-coma in the middle of a furious whispered argument going on across the ten feet of shelter space between Wadjik and Willy. "... you're all alike, you -- " Wadjik swore at her. "Call a monkey a man. Call him better than a man. It doesn't matter to you that real men get killed by the monkeys. All that matters is -- do the monkeys get killed. You -- " "Shut up." Willy did not use obscenity but she did not seem hampered by the lack of it in describing Wadjik to himself. She went on ragingly while he was still talking in that instinctive, venomous whisper which was easiest on both their heatdried throats. "Don't you know why IF I'm going to these prospecting grounds of yours? Don't you know about the remains of a city there built by these same Udbahrs?" "Sure, I've seen it. What of it?" "I'm telling you what of it! They had a high level of civilization once -- or at least a higher level than now. But that doesn't mean anything to you -- " "They degenerated. That's what it means to me. They're cannibal degenerates. And you want me to treat them like human beings -- "I want you to treat them like intelligent beings -- which they 'are. Even an uneducated, brutal, stupid man like you ought to understand -- " "Listen to who's talking. The kid historian speaks. I thought you were still in school, writing a thesis. You didn't tell me you'd been at this for years -- " "I may be only a graduate student but I've learned ' a few things you never did -- " Looking past Wadjik's heatreddened face, flaming under its salve, Kiev saw the upper part of Johnson's countenance beyond. Johnson seemed to be calmly listening. There was nothing to do, Kiev knew, but listen. It was the heat -- the sickening intoxication of the deadly heat in the shelter -- that was making the argument. When the heat reached its most relentless intensity only the instinct keeping men in their thermal bags stopped them from Wadjik finally broke off the argument by drawing down into his bag and rolling across the floor of the shelter to the lavatory door. He pressed the bottom latch through his bag, opened the door, rolled inside and hut himself off from the rest of the room. Willy fell silent. Kiev looked sideways at her. "It's no use," he whispered to her. "Save your energy." She turned and glared at'him. "And I thought you were different!" she spat and slid down, head and all, into her bag. Kiev backed into his own cocoon. Fueled by the feverishness induced by the heat, his mind ran on. They were all a little crazy, he thought, all who had taken up prospecting. Crazy -- or they had something to hide in their pasts that would keep them from ever leaving this planet. But a man who was clean elsewhere could become rich in five years if he kept his head -- and kept his health -- both on the trips and back in civilization. On Kiev's first trip into the mountains, two years ago, he had not known what he was after. Just a lot of money, he had thought, to blow back at the hotels. But now he knew better. He was going to take it cool and calm, like Johnson -- who could never leave the planet. Kiev meant to keep his own backtrail clear. And he would leave when the time came with enough to buy higi citizenship and a good business franchise back on one of the Old Worlds. He had his picture of the future clear in his mind. A modern home on a settled world, a steady, good income. Status. A family. He had seen enough of the wild edges of civilization. Leave the rest of it to the new kids coming out. He was still young but he could look ahead and see thirty up there waiting for him. His thoughts rambled on through the deadly hours as his body temperature was driven slowly upward by the heat. In the end his mind rambled and staggered. He awoke suddenly. He had passed from near-delirium into sleep without realizing it. The deadly heat of mid-afternoon had broken toward cooloff and with the first few degrees of relief within the shelter he, like all the rest, had dropped immediately into exhausted slumber. By now -- he glanced at the wristwatch on the left sleeve of his outergear -- the hour was nearly sunset. He looked about the shelter. Willy, Shant, Wadjik, Johnson were still sleeping. "Hey," he croaked at them, speaking above a whisper for the first time in hours. "Time for the drive. Up and at 'em." were all dressed, fed and outside, with the shelter folded and packed, along with the other equipment, on grav-sleds ready to travel. Wadjik and Shant took off to the north, towing their own grav-sled. Kiev and Johnson were left with their sled and the girl. They looked at her thoughtfully. The sun was already down below the peaks to the west. But threequarters of the sky above them was still white with a glare too bright to look at directly and the heat, even with outersuit and helmet sealed, made every movement a new cause for perspiration. The climate units of the suits whined with their effort to keep the occupants dry and cool. "I'm not going to join you," Willy snapped. "I won't be a tives." "We can't leave you behind," Kiev answered. "Unless you can handle a gun -- and will use it. If any of the males break away from the drive they'll double back and you'd make an easy meal." Inside the transparent helmet her face was pale even in the heat. "You can stick with the gravsled," said Kiev. "You don't have IF to join the drive. Just keep up." She did not look at him or speak. She was not going to give him the satisfaction of an answer, he thought. "Move out, then," said Johnson. They began to climb the cliffs toward the brightness in the sky, the grav-sled trailing behind them on .slave circuit, its lod piled high. Willy, looking small in her suit, trudged behind it. Under the crown of the cliffs they turned about, deployed to cover both sides of the clearing below and began their drive. They worked forward, each man firing into every rock niche or cranny that might have an Udbahr sealed up within it. Deep, booming sounds -- made by the air and moisture within each cranny exploding outward -- began to echo between the cliffs. Soon a shout came over Kiev's suit intercom in Johnson's deep voice. "One running! One running! Eleven o'clock, sixty meters, down in the cleft there." Kiev jerked his gaze ahead and caught a glimpse of an adultsized, humanlike, brown figure with a greenishly naked, round skull and large tarsierlike eyes, vanishing up a narrow cut. "No clothing," called Kiev over the intercom. "Must be a female, or a young male." "Or maybe old Hehog playing it incognito -- " Johnson began but was interrupted. "One running! One running!" bellowed Wadjik's voice distantly over the intercom. "Two o'clock, near clifftop." "One running! Deep in the pass there at three o'clock!" chimed in Johnson, again. "Keep them moving!" The sounds of the blasting attack now were routing out Udbahrs who had denned up for the ddy. Most were females or young, innocent of either clothing or weapons. But here and there was a heavier, male figure, running with spear or throwing-stick in hand and wearing anything from a rope of twisted rock vines or rat furs around his waist to some tattered article of clothing, stolen, scavenged -- or just possibly taken as a war prize -- from the dead body of a human prospector. The males were slowed by their insistence on herding the females and the young ahead of them. They always did this, even though nearly all prospectors made it a point to kill only the grown males -- the warriors who were liable to attack if left alive. The pattern was old, familiar -- one of the things that made most prospectors swear the Udbahrs had to be animal rather than intelligent. The females and young were gathering into a herd as they ran, joining up beyond the screen of the males following them. When the herd was complete -- when all who should be in it had been accounted for -- the males would choose their ground, stop and turn to fight and hold up the pursuers while the females and young escaped. same way, no matter whether the tactic were favorable or not in the terrain where they were being driven, Kiev thought suddenly. Everything the Udbahrs did was by rote. And strange to creatures who reasoned like men. No matter what Willy said, it was hard to think of them as any kind of people -- let alone people with whom you could become involved. For example, if he, Johnson, Shant and Wadjik quit driving the natives now and pulled back, the Udbahr males would immediately turn around and start trying to kill each other. It was only when they were being driven or were joining for an attack on prospectors that the males had ever been known to cooperate. So, as it always went, it went this sunset hour on the Udbah-r Planet. By the time the last light of the day star was beginning to evaporate from the western sky and the great ghostly circle of the nearer moon was beginning to be visible against a more reasonably lighted sky, some half dozen of the Udbahr males disappeared suddenly among the boulders and rocks at the mouth of a pass down which the herd of females and young were vanishing. "Hold up," Johnson gasped over the intercom. "Hold it up. They've forted. Stop and breathe." Kiev checked his weary legs and collapsed into sitting position on a boulder, panting. His body was damp all over in spite of the efforts of his suit to keep him dry. His head rang with a headache induced by exhaustion and the heat. The Udbahr males hidden among the rocks near the mouth of the pass began to sing their individual songs of defiance. Kiev's breathing eased. His headache receded to a dull ache and finally disappeared. The last of the daylight was all but gone from the sky behind them. The nearer moon, twice as large as the single moon of Earth by which all moons were measured, was sharply outlined, bright in the sky, illuminating the scene with a sort of continuing twilight. "What're you waiting for?" Willy's voice said dully in his earphones. "Why don't you go and kill them?" He turned to look for her and was astonished to find her, with the grav-sled, almost beside him. IF She had sat down on the ground, her back bowed as if in deep discouragement, her face turned away and hidden from him within the transparent helmet. "They'll come to us," he muttered without thinking. Suddenly she curled up completely into a huddled ball of silver outerwear suit and crystalline helmet. The sheer, unutterable anguish of her pose squeezed at his throat. He dropped down to his knees beside her and put his arms around her. She did not respond. "You don't understand -- " he said. And then he had the sense to tongue off the interphone and speak to her directly and privately through the closeness of their helmets, alone. "You don't understand." "I do understand. You like to do this. You like it." Her voice was muffled, dead. His heart turned over at the sound of it and suddenly, unexpectedly, he realized thathe had somehow managed to fall in love with her. He felt sick inside. It was all wrong -- all messed up. He had meant to go looking for a woman -- but eventually, after he'd made his stake and gone back to some civilized world. He had not planned anything like this involvement with a girl he had known only five days and who had all sorts of wild notions about how things should be. He did not know what to do except kneel there, holding her. "If you don't like it why do you do it?" her voice said. "If you really don't like it -- then don't do it. Now. Let these go." "I can't," he said. The singing broke off suddenly in a concerted howl from the Udbahr males, mingled with a triumphant cry over the intercom from Wadjik. "Got one." And then: "Look out. Stones." Kiev jerked into the shelter of a boulder, dragging Willy with him. Two rocks, each about half the size of his fist, dug up the ground where they had crouched together. "You see?" He pushed her roughly from him and drew his sidearm. Leaning around the boulder, he searched the rocks of the slope below the pass, watching the vernier needle of the heat-indicator slide back and forth on the weapon's barrel. It jumped suddenly and he stopped moving. He peered into the gun's rear sights, thumbing the near lens to telescopic. He held his aim on the warm location, studying the small area framed in the sight screen. Suddenly he made it outa tiny patch of brown between a larger boulder and a bit of upright, broken rock. He aimed carefully. "Don't do it." He jerked involuntarily, sending his beam wide of the mark at the sound of her voice. A patch of bare gravel boomed and flew. The bit of brown color disappeared from between the rocks. He leaned the front of his helmet wearily against the near side of the boulder before him. "Damn you," he said helplessly. "What are you doing to me?"  "I'm trying to save you," she said fiercely, "from being a murderer." Another stone hit the top of the boulder behind which they hid and caromed off over their heads. "How about saving me from that?" he said emptily. "Don't you understand? If we don't kill them they'll try to kill us -- " "I don't believe it." She, too, had shut off her intercom. Her voice came to him distantly through two thicknesses of transparent material. "Have you ever tried? Has anyone ever tried?" Another sudden volley of stones was followed by more dull explosions as the heat of the human weapons found and destroyed live targets. Shant and Wadjik were howling in triumph and shooting steadily. "We got five -- they're on the run." Shant whooped. "Kiev! Johnson! They're on the run." The explosions ceased. Kiev peered cautiously around his boulder, stood up slowly. Wadjik, Shant, and Johnson had risen from positions in a semicircle facing the distant pass. "Any get away?" Johnson was asking. "One, maybe two -- " Shant cut himself short. "Look out -- duck. Twelve o'clock, fifty meters." At once Kiev was again down behind his boulder. He dragged down Willy, tongued on his intercom. "What is it?" "That chunk of feldspar about a meter high -- " until his eyes found the rock. A glint that came and went behind and above it, winking in the waxing light of the nearer moon that now seemed as bright as a dull, cloudy day back on Earth. The flash came and went, came and went. Kiev recognized it presently as a reflection from the top curve of a transparent helmet bobbing back and forth like the head of someone dancing just behind the boulder. A male Udbahr's voice began to sing behind the rock. Man with a head-and-a-half, come and get your half-head. Man with a head-and-a-half Come so I can kill you. Ancient, my enemy. Ancient, my enemy -- IF "Hehog," snapped Johnson's voice over the helmet intercom. Silence held for a minute. Then Wadjik's voice came thinly through the phones. "What are you waiting for, Kiev?" Kiev said nothing. The transparent curve of the helmet top, rose again, bobbed and danced behind the boulder. It danced higher. Within it now was a bald, round, greenish skull with reddish, staring tarsier eyes and -- finally revealed -- the lipless gash of a fixedly grinning mouth. "What is it? What's Wadjik mean?" Willy asked. Her voice rang loud in Kiev's helmet phones. She had reactivated her intercom. "It's Hehog down there," Kiev said between stiff jaws. "That's my helmet he's wearing. He's had it ever since he first took it off me, my first trip into the mountains." "Took it off you?" "I was new .  I'd never been on a drive before," muttered Kiev. "I got hit in the chest by a stone, had the wind knocked out of me. Next thing I knew Hehog was lifting off my helmet. My partners came up shooting and drove him off." "What about it, Kiev?" The voice was Johnson's. "Do you want us to spread out and get behind him? Or you want to go down and get the helmet by yourself'" Kiev grunted under his breath, took his sidearm into his left hand and flexed the cramped fingers of his right. They had been squeezing the gunbutt as if to mash it out of all recognizable shape. "I'm going alone," he said over the intercom. "Stay back." He got his heels under him and was ready to rise when he was unexpectedly yanked backward to the gravel. Willy had pulled him down. "You're not going" He tongued off his intercom, turned and jerked her hand loose from his suit. "You don't understand," he shouted at her through his helmet. "That's the trouble with you. You don't understand a damn thing." He pushed her from him, rose and dived for the protection of a boulder four meters down the slope in front of him and a couple of meters to his right. A flicker of movement came from below as he moved -- the upward leap of a throwing stick behind the rock where Hehog hid. Kiev glimpsed something dark racing through the air toward him. A rock fragment struck and burst on the boulder face, spraying him with stone chips and splinters. Reckless now, he threw himself toward the next bit of rocky cover farther down the slope. His foot caught on a stony outcropping in the shale. He tripped and rolled, tumbling helplessly to a stop beside the very boulder behind which Hehog crouched, throwing stick in one hand, stone-tipped spear in the other. Kiev sprawled on his back. He stared helplessly up into the great eyes and humorlessly grinning mouth looming over him inside the other helmet less than an arm's length away. The spear twitched in fhe brown hand -- but that was all. Hehog stared into Kiev's eyes. Kiev was aware of Willy and the others shouting through his helmet phones. A couple of shots blasted grooves into the bouldertop above his head. And with a sudden, wordless cry Hehog bounded to his feet and dodged away among the boulders toward the pass. The bright beams of shots from the human guns followed him but lost him. He vanished into the pass. ing inside. He awoke to the fact that he was still holding his sidearm. A bitter understanding broke upon him with the hard, unsparing clarity of an Udbahr Planet dawn. He could have shot Hehog at pointblank range during the moment he had spent staring frozenly at the spear in Hehog's hand and at the great-eyed, grinning head within the helmet. Hehog had to have seen the gun. And that would have been why he had not tried to throw the spear. Kiev cursed blackly. He was still cursing when the others slid down the loose rock of the slope to surround him. "What happened?" demanded Shant. "He -- " Kiev discovered that his intercom was still off. He tongued it on. "He got away." "We know he got away," said Wadjik. "What we want to know is how come?" "You saw," Kiev snapped. "I fell. He had me. You scared him off." "He had you? I thought you had him , damn it!" "All right, he's gone," Johnson said. "That's the main thing. Leave the other bodies for whoever wants to eat them. We've had a good drive. We'll split up, now." He looked at Wadjik and Shant. "See you back in civilization." Wadjik cursed cheerfully. "Team with the heaviest load buys the drinks," he said. "Come on, Shanny." The two of them turned away, dragging their loaded grav-sled through the air behind them. IF K iev, willy and Johnson reached Dead City a good two hours before dawn. They had time to pick out one of the empty, windowless houses, half-cave, half building, to use as permanent headquarters. Tomorrow night they would cut stone to fill the open doorway but for today the shelter, fitted doublethick into the opening, would do well enough. No singing came from the surrounding cliffs. Johnson crawled in. Kiev lingered to speak to Willy. "You don't have to worry." The words were not what he had planned to say. "The Udbahrs are scared of this place." "I know." She did not look at him. "Of course. I know more about this city and the Udbahrs than even Mr. Johnson does. There's a taboo on this place for them." "Yes." Kiev looked down at his gloved right handand spread the fingers, still feeling the hard butt of his sidearm clamped inside them. "About earlier tonight, with Hehog -- " "It's all right," she said softly, looking unexpectedly up at him. Her intercom was off and her voice came to him through her helmet. In the combination of the low-angled moonlight and the first horizon glow of the dawn, her face seemed luminescent. "I know you did it for me -- after all." He stared at her. "Did what?" She still spoke softly: "I know why you let that Udbahr male live. It was because of what I'd said, wasn't it? But you need to be ashamed of nothing. You simply haven't gone bad inside, like the others. Don't worry -- I won't tell anyone." She took his arm gently with both hands and lifted her head as if -- had they been unhelmeted -- she might have kissed his cheek. Then she turned and disappeared into the cave. He followed her after some moments. A small filter panel in the shelter had let a little of the terrible daylight through for illumination. Here artificial lighting had to be on. Kiev saw by it that she had piled stores and opened some of her own gear to set up a four-foot wall that gave her individual privacy. He laid out his own thermal bag. The heat was quite bearable behind the insulation of the thickwalled building as the day began. Kiev fell into a deep, exhausted sleep that seemed completely dreamless. He awoke without warning. Instantly alert, he rose to an elbow. The light was turned down. He heard no sound from Willy. Johnson snored. Kiev remained stiffly propped on one elbow. A feeling of danger prickled his skin. He found his ears were straining for some noise that did not belong here. He listened. For a long moment he heard only the snoring and beyond it silence. Then he heard what had awakened him. It came again, like the voice of some imprisoned spirit -- not from beyond the wall but from under the stone floor on which he lay. Man with a head-and-a-half, come and get your half-head. Man with a head-and-a-half , Come , so I can kill you. Ancient, my enemy. Ancient, my enemy The singing broke off suddenly. Kiev jerked bolt upright and the thermal bag fell down around his waist. Suddenly more loudly through the rock, and nearer, the voice echoed in the dim interior of the stone building: of each other! Man with a head-and-a-half, come and get your half-head. Man with a head-and-a-half... T HE singing continued. Fury uprushed like vomit in Kiev. He swore, tearing off his thermal bag and pawing through his piled outerwear. His fingers closed on the butt of the weapon. He jerked it clear, aimed it at the section of floor from which the singing was coming and pressed the trigger. Light, heat and thunder shredded the sleeping quiet of the dimly lit room. Kiev held the beam steady, a hotter rage inside him than he could express with the rock-rending gun. He felt his arm seized. The sidearm was torn from his grip. He whirled to find Johnson holding the weapon out of reach. "Give me that," Kiev said thickly. "Wake up," Johnson said, lowvoiced. "What's got into you?" "Didn't you hear?" Kiev shouted at him. "That was Hehog -- Hehog! Down there!" He pointed at the hole with its melted sides, half a meter deep into the floor of the building. "I heard," said Johnson. "It was Hehog, all right. There must be tunnels under some of these buildings." Willy chimed in. "But Udbahrs don't -- " Kiev and Johnson turned to see her staring at them over the top of her barricade. Kiev became suddenly conscious that, like Johnson, he was completely without clothes. Willy's face disappeared abruptly. Kiev turned back to look at the hole his gun had burned in the IF stone. It showed no breakthrough into further darkness at the bottom. "All right," he said shakily. "I'm sorry. I woke up hearing him and just jumped -- that's all. We can shift to another building tomorrow. And sound for tunnels before we move in." Johnson turned and returned to his thermal bag. Kiev resumed his cocoon. He lay on his back, hands behind his head, staring up at the shadowy ceiling... Ancient, my enemy... ancient, my enemy... The memory of Hehog's chant continued to run through his head. You and me, Hehog. I'll show you, Udbahr... After some time he fell asleep. night, as soon as the sun was down. Kiev and Johnson quarried large chunks of rock from the wall of an adjoining building, melted them into place to fill up the new door opening, except for the entrance unit, which was set up double as a heat lock and fitted into place. Now the shelter air-conditioner could keep the whole interior of the new building comfortable all day long. The night was half over by the time they finished. Kiev and Johnson had some four hours left to trek to their prospecting area. The gold ore deposits in the neighborhood of Dead City were almost always in pipes and easily worked out in a few days by men with the proper equipment. Kiev hesitated. "I'll stay," he said. "With Hehog around, someone's got to stay with Miss Fairchild." Johnson regarded him thoughtfully. "You're right. If we leave her here alone Hehog's sure to get her. And who would sell us gear for our next trip if word got out about how we left her to be killed?" He hesitated. "Tell you what -- we'll draw straws." Kiev said, "I'll stay. Drop back in a week. I'll tell you then if I need you to take over." Johnson nodded. He turned away and began his packing -- food, weapons, equipment, a water drill for tapping the moon flower root systems. Also, a breathing membrane for sealing the caves they would be denning up in by day. Kiev, squatting, making a final check of the seal around the entrance, saw a shadow fall across a seam he was examining. He stood up, turned and saw Willy down the street, taking solidographs of one of the buildings. Johnson stood just behind him, equipment already on his backpack. "We haven't had a chance to talk," Johnson said. "No." "Let me say now what I've wanted to say. Why don't you pack up and go back -- and take the girl with you?" "I've got my stake to make out here -- like everybody else." "You know there's more to the situation. Hehog's changed everything. Also, there's the girl -- we both know what I mean. And there's something else -- something I don't think you're aware of." "What?" "You've heard how sometimes the males -- if they've just fed so they aren't hungry and there's only one of them around -- will come into your camp and sit down to talk?" Kiev frowned at him. "I've heard of it," he said. "It's never happened to me." "It's happened to me," said Johnson. "They .ask you things that'd surprise you. Surprise you what they tell you, too. You know why Hehog's broken taboo and come right into Dead City?" "Do you?" Johnson nodded. "There's a thing the Udbahrs believe in," Johnson said. "They figure that when they eat someone they eat his soul, too?" "Sure," said Kiev. "And that soul stays inside them until they're killed. Then, when they die, if no one else eats them right away, all the souls of all the bodies they've eaten in their lives fly loose and take over the bodies of pups too young to have strong souls of their own." Johnson nodded. He tilted his head at the distant figure of Willy. "You've been learning from her," he said. "Her? As a matter of fact, I have," said Kiev. "But you were the one told me about Udbahr cannibalism -- a year or more ago." "Did I?" Johnson looked at him. "Did I tell you about Ancient Enemies?" Kiev shook his head. "Once in a while a couple of males get a real feud going. It's not an ordinary hate. It's almost a noble thing -- if you follow me. And from then on the feud never stops, no matter how many times they both die. Every time one is killed and born again -- when he grows up it's his turn to kill the other one. The next time the roles are reversed. You follow me?" Kiev frowned. "No." "Figure both souls live forever through any number of bodies. other physically." Johnson looked strangely at Kiev. "The only thing is that no soul ever remembers IF from one body to the next -- they never know whose turn it is to be killed and which one's to be the killer. So they just keep running into each other until the soul of one of them tells him, 'Go!' Then he kills the other and goes off to wait to die." Johnson stopped speaking. Kiev stared. "You mean Hehog thinks he and I -- he thinks we're these Ancient Enemies?" "Night before last," said Johnson, "you and he were face to face, both armed -- and neither one of you killed the other. Yesterday -- while we were denned up -- he showed up here in the Dead City where it's taboo for him to be. Being Ancient Enemies is the only thing that'd set him free of a taboo like that. What do you think?" Kiev turned for a second look down the street at Willy. "Hehog's not going to leave you alone if I'm right," said Johnson. "And he's smart. He might even of us so he could stay close to you. And the easiest one for him to kill would be that girl. And it's true what I said. We lose a human woman out here and no supplier's going to touch us with a ten-foot pole." "Yeah," said Kiev. "I'm not afraid of Hehog, myself. But I've got no place else to go. I plan to die out here some day -- but not yet for a few trips. Take the girl and head back. Give up the mountains while you still can. Kiev -- I mean it." "You can't make us leave," Kiev said slowly. "No," said Johnson. His face looked old and dark as weatherstained oak. "But you keep that girl here and Hehog'll get her. She doesn't know anything but books and she doesn't understand someone like Hehog. She doesn't even understand us." He took a step back. "So long, partner," he said. "See you in three nights -- maybe." He turned and walked away slowly, leaning forward against the weight of the pack, until he was lost among the rocks of the western cliffs. Kiev turned and saw the small shape of Willy even farther down the street, still taking pictures. the next two days and nights, which were quiet. He spent most of his time studying the aerial maps of areas near Dead City he had planned to work during this trip. Actually he was getting his ideas in order for explanation to Willy, who seemed to be having the time of her life. She was measuring and photographing Dead City inch by inch, as excited over it as if it were one large Christmas present. She had changed toward him, too, teasing him and doing for him, by turns. Hehog did not sing from underground in the new building. On the third night Kiev invited himself along on her work with the City. He realized now that what Johnson had told him was true. Johnson's words had been the final shove he had needed to make up his mind. The fact that he and Willy had met less than a week ago meant nothing. Out here things were different. He had worried about how he would bring up the subject of his future -- and hers. But it turned out that he had no need to bring it up. It was already there. Almost before he knew it they were talking as if certain things were understood and taken for granted. He said, "I've got at least five more trips to make to get the stake I need for a move back to the Old Worlds. You'd have to wait." "But you don't need to keep coming back here," she said. "I know how you can make the rest of the money you need without even one more trip. I know because a publishing company talked to me about doing something like it. There's a steady market for information about humanoids like the Udbahrs. Books, lectures. Acting as industrial and economic consultant -- " He stared at her. "I couldn't do anything like that," he said. "I'm no good with words and theories -- " "You don't have to be. All you have to do is tell what you've seen and done on these trips of yours. You'll collect enough on advance bookings alone for us to go back to any Old World you IF wantafter I get my doctorate, of courseand settle down there. Don't forget I've got my work, too. I'll be teaching." She stared at him eagerly. "And think of what you'll be achieving. Intelligent natives are being killed off or exploited on new worlds like this one simply because there's no local concern over them and because our civilization hasn't understood them enough to make the necessary concessions for them to accept it. You could be the one to get the ball rolling that could save the Udbahrs from being hunted down and killed off -- " "By people like me, you mean," he said, a little sourly. , "Not you. You haven't yet been infected with the sort of and even Johnson -- have." "It isn't a lust. Out here you have to kill the Udbahrs to keep She looked at him sharply. "Yes -- if you're a savage," she said. "As the Udbahrs are savages. I couldn't love an Udbahr. I could only love a man who was civilized -- able to keep the savage part inside him chained up. That Ancient Enemy business Hehog sang at you -- that's the way a savage thinks. I don't expect you not to have the psychological if you're a healthy-minded man you can keep that sort of Ancient Enemy locked up inside you. You don't have to let him take you over." He opened his mouth to make one more stubborn effort to explain himself to her, then closed it again rather helplessly. He found a certain uncomfortable rightness in part of what she was saying. Although from that rightness she went off into left field somewhere to an area where he was sure she was wrong. While he groped for words to express himself the still air around him was suddenly torn by the sound of a gun-bolt explosion. He found himself running toward the building they had set up as their headquarters, sidearm in his hand, the sound of Willy's voice and footsteps following him. The distance was not great and he did not slow down for her. Better if he made it first -- or if she did not come at all until he knew what had happened. He rounded the corner of the building and saw the shelter entrance hanging in blackened tatters. He dove past it. By some miracle the light was still burning against the ceiling but the interior it illuminated was a scene of wreckage. Concussion and heat from the bolt had tom apart or scorched everything in the place. With a wild coldness inside him, he pawed swiftly through the rubble for whatever was usable. Two thermal sleeping bags were still in working condition, though their outer covering was charred in spots and stinking of burned plastic. Food containers were ripped open and their contents destroyed. The water drill was workable and most of one air membrane was untouched. "What happened? Who did it? Kiev -- " Willy was with him again, literally pulling at him to get his attention. He came erect wearily. "I don't know," he said, dully. "Maybe some prospector has gone out of his head entirely. Or -- " IF He hesitated. "Or what?" He looked at her. "Or an Udbahr male has gotten hold of the gun of a dead prospector." Her face thinned and whitened under the light of the overhead temp. "A dead -- " She did hot finish. "That's right," he said. "One of our people, it could be -- Wadjik, Shant or Johnson." "How could a savage who knows only sticks and stones kill an experienced, armed man?" Willy sounded outraged. "All sorts of animals kill people." He felt sick inside, hating himself for not having set up at least a trigger wire to guard the building area. "We've got to get out of here. We can't spend another night in a building, anyway, without a shelter entrance." "Where'll we go?" "We'll head toward Johnson," Kiev said. "He isn't digging so far away that we shouldn't be able to make it before dawn -- if he isn't dead." They started out on the bearing Johnson had taken and soon left the city behind them. Fully risen moonflowers -- some of them giants over three meters high -- surrounded them. They were lost in a forest of strange, pale beauty, where by day there would only be the bare, heat-blasted mountainside. "Aren't we likely to pass him and not even see him?" asked Willy. "No," Kiev said absently. "He'll be following contours at a constant elevation. So are we. When he gets close enough, we'll hear static in our earphones." He did not again mention the possibility of Johnson's being dead -- partly because he wanted to be easy on himself. They tramped on in silence. Kiev's mind was busy among the number of problems opened up by their present situation. After about an hour he heard the hiss of interference in his helmet phones that signaled the approach of another transmitting unit. He stopped so suddenly that Willy bumped into him. He rotated his helmet slowly, listening for the maximum noise. When he found it, he spoke. "Johnson? Johnson, can you hear me?" "Thought it was you, Kiev." Johnson's voice came distorted and weakened by rocky distance. "The girl with you? What's up?" "Somebody fired a gun into our building," said Kiev. "I scraped together a sort of maintenance kit out of what was left -- but I'm carrying all the salvage." "I see." Johnson did not waste breath on speculation. "Stop where you are and wait for me. We better head back toward Wad's and Shanny's diggings as soon as we're together. No point your burning energy trying to meet me halfway." "Right." Kiev loosened his pack and sat down with his back to the trunk of a moonflower. Willy sat beside him. She said nothing and, busy with his own thoughts still, he hardly noticed her silence. By the time Johnson found them Kiev had already worked out the new compass heading from their present location to the diggings where Wadjik and Shant had planned to work. A little over three hours of the night remained. "Do you think we can make it before dawn?" Kiev asked as the three of them started out on the new heading. "You've been through that area before, haven't you?" Johnson nodded. "I don't know," he said. "It'll be faster going once the moonflowers are down." He looked at Willy. "We'll be pushing on as fast as we can. Think you can keep up?" "Yes," she said without looking at him. Her voice was dull. "Good. If you start really to give out, though, speak up. Don't overdo it to the point where we have to carry you. All right?" "Yes." Soon the moonflowers had drawn in their petals until they were hardly visible under the hoods and begun their retreat into the ground. The men were now able to see, across the tops of the hoods, the general shape of the terrain and pick the most direct route from contour point to contour point. Willy walked between them. The moonflower hoods still stood above her head -- tall as she was for a woman -- but did not seem to bother her. She looked at nothing. Johnson glanced at Kiev across the top of her helmet, and tongued off his helmet phones. He let her walk slightly ahead, then leai.ed toward Kiev until their helmets touched. "I told you," Johnson said softly through the helmet contact. "She didn't understand or believe. We were something out of books to her -- so were the Udbahrs. Now she's trying hard to keep on not believing. You see why I told you yesterday to get her out of here?" Kiev said nothing. Johnson pulled back his helmet, tongued his intercom back on, kept walking. After a while the sky began to whiten ominously. The nearer moon was low and paling on the horizon behind. Johnson halted. Kiev and Willy also stopped. IF "It's no good," said Johnson, over the intercom to Kiev. "We're 'going to have to take time to find a hole to crawl into before day. We're going to have to quit now and wait for night." Kiev nodded. "A hole?" echoed Willy. Kiev looked at Johnson. Johnson shrugged. The message of the shrug was clear -- there were no caves in this area. But they hunted until Johnson called a halt. "This will have to do." He pointed to a crack in a rock face. He and Kiev attacked the crack with mining tools and their guns. Twenty minutes' work hollowed out a burrow three meters in circular diameter, with an entrance two feet square. Above the entrance the crack had been sealed with melted rock. The trio crawled inside and fitted the breathing membrane in place against the opening. Kiev waited until all were undressed and in their thermal bags before setting the light he had saved from the building in place against the roCky ceiling. The cramped closeness of their enclosure came to solid life around them. The den was beginning to heat up. The place had no air-conditioning unit -- the shelter had been a palace by comparison. Even Kiev had to struggle against the intoxicating effect of the heat and the claustrophic panic of the enclosed space. Willy went out of her head before noon. Kiev and Johnson had to hold her in her thermal bag. Shortly after that she went into syncope and stayed unconscious until cool-off. Haggard with exhaustion, Kiev leaned on one elbow above her, staring down into her face, now smoothed out into natural sleep. Teetering on the verge of irresistible unconsciousness himself, he felt in him the strange clearheadedness of utter weariness. She had been right, he thought, about that primitive part in him and all men -- the Ancient Enemy. The prospectors did not so much fight the Udbahr males out here as something in themselves that corresponded to its equivalent in the lust that could get you to the point where you no longer cared if you were killed yourself. thought. When he opened his eyes the membrane was down from the entrance and outside was the cool and blessed moonlight. He crawled out to find Willy and Johnson already packing gear. "Got to move, Kiev," said Johnson, seeing him. "If Wad and Shanny are alive and headed home we want to take out after them as soon as possible. One long night's walk can put us back at the hotel." "The hell you say." Kiev was astonished. "They didn't come all the way out with us and then cut that far back to find a digging area." "No," Johnson said, "but from here we can hit a different pass through the border range. Going back that way makes the hypotenuse of a right triangle. Coming out we would have dog-legged it to reach this point like doing the triangle's other two sides. You understand?" Within half an hour they were on their way. And within an hour, as they were coming around a high spire of rock, Johnson put out his arm and stopped. "Wait here, Willy," Johnson said. "Come on, Kiev." The two men rounded the rock and stopped, staring down into a small open area. They saw the scattered remains of working equipment and of Wadjik and Shant. At least one day under the open sun had mummified their bodies. Wadjik lay on his back with the broken shaft of a spear through his chest. But Shant had been pegged out and left to die. Their outerwear and guns were gone. "I thought I saw sign of at least half a dozen males back there," Johnson said. "Hehog, all right -- with help. He must be swinging some real clout with the other males to have kept them from eating these two right away." He glanced hard at Kiev. "And all for you." Kiev stared. "Me? You mean Hehog tied Shanny up and left him like that on purpose -- just so I could come along and see it?" "You begin to see what Ancient Enemy means?" he responded. "We're in trouble, Kiev. Two guns missing and one of the local males grown into a real hoodoo. We'll get moving for civilization right now." "You're going to bury them first," Willy said. The men swung around. She was standing just behind them, looking at them. Her gaze dropped, fixed on the bodies below. For a second Kiev thought that the sight had sent her completely out of her mind. Then he saw that her eyes were clear and sane. Johnson said, "We haven't time -- and, anyway, the Udbahrs would come back to dig them up again when they were hungry enough." "He's right, Willy," said Kiev. "We've got to go -- fast." He thought of something else and swung back to Johnson. "That pass you talked about -- they'll be laying for us there, Hehog and IF the other males he's got together. It's the straightest route home, you say, and they know prospectors always head straight out of the mountains when they get into trouble." Johnson shook his head. "Don't think so," he said. "You're no prospector to Hehog. You're his Ancient Enemy, looking for that one spot where you and he come face to face and one of you gets the word to kill the other. He'll be right around this area, waiting for us to start hunting for him. If we move fast we've got as good a chance as anyone ever had to get out of these mountains alive." Several times -- before the nearer moon was high in the sky and the moonflowers were stretching to full bloom -- Willy tripped and would have gone down if Kiev had not caught her. But she did not complain. In fact, she said nothing at all. Shortly after midnight, they broke out from under the umbrellas of a clump of moonflower petals and found themselves in the pass Johnson had talked about. "We made it," said Johnson, stopping. Kiev also stopped. Willy, stumbling with weariness, blundered into him. She clung to him like a child -- and at that moment a thin, bright beam came from among the trunks of the moonflowers behind them. The side of Johnson's outerwear burst in dazzle and smoke. Johnson lunged forward. Kiev and Willy ran behind him. Three more bright beams flickered around them as they lurched over the lip of the pass, took half a dozen long, staggering, tripping strides down the far side and dived to shelter behind some waist-high chunks of granite. Male Udbahr voices began to sing on the far side of the pass. Johnson coughed. Kiev looked at him and Johnson quickly turned his helmet away, so that the face plate was hidden. "Move out," Johnson said, in a thick voice, like that of a man with a frog in his throat. "Are you crazy?" Kiev had his sidearm out. He sighted around the granite boulder before him and sent a beam high into the rock wall beyond the lip of the pass, on the other side. The rock boomed loudly and flew in fragments. The singing stopped. After a moment it started again. "I can't help you now," Johnson said, still keeping his face turned away. "Move out, I tell you." "You think I'm going to leave you?" Kiev sent off another bolt into the rock face beyond the lip of the pass. This time the singing hardly paused. "Don't waste your charges," Johnson said hoarsely. "Get out. Half an hour puts you -- hotel." He had to stop in mid-sentence to cough. "Forget it, partner," said Kiev. "With my gun and yours I can hold that pass until morning. They can't come through." Johnson gave an ugly laugh. "What partner?" he asked. "This partnership's dissolved. And what'll you do when dawn comes? Cook? You're still a good hour's trek from the hotel." Kiev became aware that Willy was tugging at his arm. She motioned with her head for him to follow her. He did. She slid back down among the rocks until they were a good four meters from where Johnson lay, head toward the pass. Willy tongued off her intercom and touched her helmet to his. "He's dying," she said to him through the helmets. "All right." Kiev stared at her as if she were Hehog himself. "You couldn't get him to the hotel in time to save his life even if there weren't any Udbahrs behind us. And we'll never make the hotel unless he stays there and keeps them from following us." "So?" She took hold of his shoulders and tried to shake him but e was too heavy and too unmoving with purpose. "Be sensible." She was almost crying. "Don't you see it's something he wants to do? He wants to save us -- " Kiev stared at her stonily. "Shanny's dead," Kiev said. "Wad's dead. You want me to leave Johnson?" S HE did begin to cry at that, the tears running down her pale face inside her helmet. "All right, hate me," she said. "Why shouldn't I want to live? This is all your fault -- not mine. I didn't kill your partners. I didn't make Hehog your special enemy. All I did was love you. If you were back there I wouldn't leave you, either. But that wouldn't make my staying sensible." "Go on if you want," he said coldly. "You know I can't find the hotel by myself!" she said. "You know I'm not going to leave you. Maybe you've got a right to kill yourself -- maybe you've even got a right to kill me. But have you got the right to kill me for something that's got nothing to do with me?" He closed his eyes against the sight of her face. After seconds he opened his eyes, looked away from her, and began to crawl IF bafyc up the slope until he once more lay beside Johnson. "It's Willy," he said, not looking  the other man. "Sure. That's right," said Johnson hoarsely. A flicker of dark movement came from one side of the pass and his gun spat. The pass was clear of pursuers again. "Damn you both," Kiev said, emptily. "Sure, boy," said Johnson. "Don't waste time, huh?" Kiev lay where he was. The nearer moon was descending in the sky a little above and to the right of the pass. "I'll leave my gun," Kiev said at last. "Don't need it," Johnson said. Kiev reached out and took Johnson's gloved hand into his own. Through the fabric the return pressure of the other man's grip was light and feeble. "Get out," said Johnson. "I told you I figured on ending out here." "You told me not for some trips yet." "Changed my mind." Johnson let go of Kiev's hand and closed his eyes. His voice was not much more than a whisper. "I think instead I'll make it this trip." He did not say any more. After a long minute Kiev spoke to him again. "Johnson -- " Johnson did not answer. Only the gun in his hand spat light briefly into the wall of the pass. Kiev stared a second longer, then turned and went sliding down the hill to where Willy crouched. "We go fast," said Kiev. ing back. Twice they heard the sound of a gun behind them. Then intervening rocks cut off whatever else they might have heard. They walked without pausing. After about an hour Willy began to stumble with exhaustion and clung to him. Kiev put his arm around her; they hobbled along together, leaning into the pitch of the upslopes, sliding in the loose rock of downslopes. The moon was low on the stony horizon behind them. Ahead came the first whitening in the sky that said dawn was less than two hours away. Willy staggered and leaned more heavily upon Kiev. Looking down at her face through the double transparencies of both helmets, Kiev saw that she was stumbling along with her eyes tightly closed, her face hardened into a colorless mask of effort. A strand of hair had fallen forward over one closed eye and his heart lurched at the sight of it. Not from the first had he ever thought of her as beautiful. Now, gaunt with effort, hair disarrayed, ' # she was less so than ever -- and yet he had never loved and wanted her more. It was because of the mountains, he thought. And Hehog, Wad, Shanny -- and Johnson. Each time he had paid out one of them for her, the worth of her had gone up that much. Now she was equal to the total of all of them together. She stumbled again, almost lost her footing. A wordless little sound was jolted out from between her clenched teeth, though her eyes stayed closed. "Walk," he said savagely, jerking her upright and onward. "Keep walking." They were on the Track, now, the curving trail that all the prospectors took out of the valley of the Border Hotel. "Keep walking," he muttered to her. "Just around the curve there -- " A bolt from a gun behind them boomed suddenly against the cliffbase to their right. Rock chips rained down Willy's knees. She lurched toward the shelter of the nearest boulder. He jerked her upright. "Run for it. Run -- " Jolting, stumbling, they ran while bolts from the gun boomed. "They can't shoot worth -- " Kiev muttered through his teeth. He stopped talking. Because at that moment they rounded curve and saw the sprawling concrete shape of the Border Hotel and its grounds -- and saw Hehog, holding a sidearm, stepping out from behind a rock twenty feet ahead. In that instant time itself seemed to hesitate. Kiev's weary legs had checked at his sight of Hehog. He started forward again at a walk, half-carrying Willy. Her eyes were still closed. He thought, She doesn't see Hehog. He marched on. Hehog brought up the gun, aimed it -- but he, too, seemed caught in the suspension of time. He wore the helmet he had taken from Kiev two years before and now he also wore the white jacket of Shant's outerwear suit -- which almost fit him. He stood waiting, one sidearm in a jacket pocket, one in his hand, aimed. Kiev stumped toward him, bringing Willy. Kiev's eyes were on the bulging eyes of Hehog. Their gazes locked. The only sound was the noise of Kiev's boots scuffing the rock underfoot. From the hotel in the valley below, no sound. From the other Udbahr males that had been firing at them from behind, no sound. Kiev marched on, Hehog growing before him. The great eyes danced in Kiev's vision. There was a wild emptiness in Kiev now, an insane certainty. He did not move aside to avoid Hehog. They were ten feet apart -- they were five -- they would collide -- IF Hehog stepped back. Without shifting the line of his advance an inch, without moving his eyes to follow Hehog, Kiev marched past him. The trail to the hotel sloped suddenly more sharply under Kiev's feet and now he looked only at what was manmade. All the Udbahrs were behind him. And behind him he heard Hehog beginning to sing softly. Man with a head-and-a-halj, come and get your half-head. Man with a head-and-a-halj. Come, so I can kill you... The song faded behind him until his stumbling feet carried him in through the great airdoor of the hotel and all things ended at once. covering and three days after that sitting around the Border Hotel, making plans for the future with Willy. They had adjoining rooms, each with a balcony looking out to the dawnrise side of the hotel. Heavy filterglass doors shut out the sunlight and protected the rooms' air-conditioned interiors during the daytime. Kiev had agreed to go back to the Old Worlds with Willy, to get married and write and tell what he knew. There was nothing wrong with making a living any way you could back on the Old Worlds, even if it meant writing and lecturing. Only once did Willy bring up the subject of the mountains. "Why did Hehog let us pass?" she asked. He stared at her. "I thought that your eyes were closed." "I opened them when you halted. I closed them when I saw him. I thought it was all over then -- and that he was going to kill us both. But you started walking and he let us pass. Why?" Kiev looked down at the thick brown carpet. "Hehog's never going to get the message," he said to the carpet. "What?" "Ancient Enemies -- Johnson told me. Hehog thinks he and I are something special to each other with this Ancient Enemies business. We're doomed to have one of us kill the other. We're supposed to keep coming together until one of us gets the message to kill. Then the other just lets it happen. Because he's doomed -- there's nothing he can do about it." He stopped talking. For a minute she said nothing, either, as if she was waiting for him to go on explaining. "Hehog didn't get the message when we walked past him?" she asked, at last. "Is that it?" "He'll never get the message," said Kiev dully. "He had two clear chances at me and he didn't do anything. It means he thinks he's the one who's doomed. He's waiting to die -- for me to kill him." "To kill him? Why would he want you to kill him? " Kiev shrugged. "Answer me." "How do I know?" Kiev said exhaustedly. "Maybe he's getting old. Maybe he thinks it's just time for him to die -- maybe his mate's dead." There was momentary, somehow ugly silence. Then Willy spoke again. "Kiev." "What?" "Look up here," she said, sharply. "I want you to look at me." He r.aised his gaze slowly from the thick carpet and saw her face as stiffly fixed as it had been in the helmet on the last long kilometer to the hotel. "Listen to me, Kiev," she said. "I love you and I want to live with you more than anything else for the rest of my life -- and I'll do anything for you I can do. But there's one thing I can't do. I just can't." He frowned at her, uneasy and restless. "I can't help it," she said. "I thought we were getting away from it here and that it wouldn't matter But it does. If I can feel it there in you I go dead inside -- I just can't love you any more. That's all there is to it." "What?" he asked. Her hands made themselves into ineffective small fists in her lap, then uncurled and lay limp. "There are so many things I love about you," she said emptily, "I thought I could ignore this one thing. But I can't think so anymore. Not since we saw those two dead men -- and not since the walk back here. Our love is just never going to work if you still want -- want to kill. Do you understand? If you're still wanting to kill it just won't work out for us. Do you understand, Kiev?" The bottom seemed to fall out of his stomach. He was abruptly sick. "I told you that's all over!" he shouted furiously at her. "I don't want to kill anything!" "You don't have to promise." She rose to her feet, her face still tight. "It doesn't matter if you promise. It only matters if you're telling the truth."... She turned and walked to the door of his hotel room. "It's almost dawn," she said. "I'm going down to see if the authorization for our spaceship tickets has come through for today's flight -- before the sun shuts off communications. I'll be back in half an hour." She went out. The door made no noise closing behind her. the bed, stared up at the ceilIF ing. Everything was wonderful -- or was it? He tried to think about the future in safety of the Old Worlds but his mind would not focus. After a bit he rose and walked out to the balcony. Before him stood the ramparts of the cliffs. On the balcony was an observation scope. He bent over it and fiddled with its controls until the boulders a kilometer away seemed to hang a dozen meters in front of him. He turned the sound pickup on. It was nearly time for the Udbahrs to be hunting their dens for the day but he heard no singing. He panned the scope, searching the rocks. There it came -- a faint wisp of melody. He searched the rock. The stone blurred before him. He lost then found the song again and closed in on it until the image in the screen of the scope locked on the figure of a male Udbahr standing deep between two tall boulders -- an Udbahr wearing a transparent helmet and white jacket, with a sidearm in his hand. The song came suddenly loud and clear. Ancient , my enemy. Ancient, my enemy. No one but ourselves has the Man with a head-and-a-half, come and get your halfhead. Man with a head-and-a-half Kiev stepped back from the scope. His head pounded suddenly. His stomach knotted. His throat ached. A fever blazed through him and his skin felt dry, dusty. He turned and strode across the room to his bag. He plowed through it, throwing new shoes, pants and shirts aside. His hand closed on the last hard item at the bottom. His gun. He jerked out the weapon, snatched up the long barrel for distance shooting and was snapping it into position on the gun even as he was striding toward the balcony. He applied the magnetic clamp of the gun butt to the scope and thumbed up the near lens of the telescopic sight. The red crosshairs wavered, searched, found Hehog. It was a long shot. The lenses of the sight held level on the Udbahr in a straight line; but below them, on their gimbals, the barrel of the automatically sighting weapon was angled so that it seemed to point clear over the cliffs at the day that was coming. Kiev's dry and shaking fingers curled around the butt. His forefinger reached toward the firing button and instantly all the shaking was over. His grip was steady. His blood was ice but the fever still burned in his brain. As clearly as a vision before him, he saw the mummified figures of Wadjik and Shant -- and Johnson as he had last seen the older man. Kiev pressed the firing button. From the cliffside came the sound of a distant explosion. A puff of rockdust plumed toward the whitening sky. A rising murmur, a mounting buzz of voices began beyond the walls of his room. People began to appear on the surrounding balconies. Kiev faded back two steps, silent as a thief. Hidden in the shadows of the balcony he could still see what the others could not. Hehog lay beside one of the two boulders between which he had been standing. A blackish stain was spreading on the right side of his white jacket and the sidearm had fallen from his grip. He was plainly dying. But he was not yet dead. He began to sing again. Man with a head-and-a-half... come and get your... halfhead. Man with a head-and-a... Through the pick-up of the scope Kiev, frozen in the shadows, could hear the Udbahr's voice weakening. Then the door to the room slammed open behind him. "Kiev, did you hear it? Someone shot from the Hotel -- " Willy's voice broke off. He turned and saw her just inside the door. She was gazing past him at the scope with its picture of Hehog and the sound of Hehog's weakening song coming from it. She stared at it. Then, slowly, as if she was being forced against her will, her eyes shifted until they met his. All the feeling in him that the sight of Hehog had triggered into life went out of him with a rush, leaving him empty as a disemboweled man. "Willy -- " He took a step toward her. Her face twitched as if with a sudden, sharp, unbearable pain and her hand came up reflexively as if to push him away, though they were still more than half a room apart. Her throat worked but she made no sound. She struggled for an instant, then shook her head briefly. Still holding up her hand as if to fend him off, she backed away from him. The door opened behind her and let her out. The door closed, leaving him alone. He swung slowly back to face the scope. Hehog still lay framed in the lens and above that image the ominous light of day was fast whitening the sky. Hehog was still feebly singing; but the song had changed. Now it was the song Willy had asked Kiev to translate when she had first heard an Udbahr male. Kiev turned and flung himself facedown IF on the bed, his arms over his head to shut out the sound. But the song came through to him. You desert me now, female. Because I am crippled. And yet, all my fault was That  did not lack courage. Therefore I will go now to the high rocks to die. And another will take you... The slow rumble of the heavy, opaque, thermal glass, sliding automatically across the entrance to the balcony, silenced the song in Kiev's ears. Beyond the dark glass the sun of day broke at last over the rim of the cliffs and sent its fierce light slanting down. There was no mercy in that relentless light and all living things who did not hide before it died.  In the Next Issue tells a mind-wrenching story of love, politics and genetic prejudice that reaches from Earth's bio-laboratories through the halls of Congress to the farthest stars. A timely classic of our tomorrows -- about a man and a woman reduced to their basic male-female essences who, with nothing else in common, pointed to each other in hostile universe and insisted -- Also takes a look at man's future in space -- An Illustrated Feature dead world. It was a grunting, hurried protest, a way of saying they still lived. It was perhaps more sane than laughing and safer than crying -- and easier than being alone. Better, it was a way to ignore each other. The too-bright sun of that dead world began to set and the shadows from the tall, broken towers of the city, mute testimonies of an alien and forgotten architecture, lengthened and covered them over. If the silence of a dead world can be said to do so, the silence grew deeper. At night it sometimes seemed to the two of them that they were the only life that world had ever seen and that the city was only a skeletal outcropping of rock and stone. It would then seem to them that the past had been quieter and that treaty with the night. They would the future was nonexistent. It was talk but they had long ago reached not a pleasant feeling -- but ifnan agreement never to say anynatural silences have a way of thing. Two people alone, alone working on your mind. They knew and scared, cannot afford to bethis and felt lucky to escape so come the best of friends. Friends easily. ' confide truths; that hope was lost. In the darkest parts of the night for instance. So all they could do they would try to talk and that was become lovers, seldom seemed to work. "I wonder -- " Cary mumbled. Unknowingly, even to themHe reached reflexively into his selves, they had arrived at a partial shirt pocket, searching for a pack of cigarettes that was never there. "What do you wonder?" Natalie asked him, thinking he expected a reply of her. "I wonder about death. I wonder what happened here. I think that they'll never find us and I wonder if they'll care. I wonder why I came here -- and whether I would have if I had seen what was waiting." He grinned and leaned across the alley toward her, "Sometimes -- sometimes I wonder if I had met you back home -- would I even have learned your name?" "Of course," Natalie said. "We moved in the same circles and knew all the same scavengers. Sooner or later there would have been one piece of carrion we both would have gone for. It just happened to be this one, that's all." Of the two of them Natalie was more frightened of friendship. Often she would have to go out of her way to remind him of the danger. But she was not a cruel woman. She was merely young -- and young people should never have to face death. It destroys their perspective and makes them fearful. Cary was older than she but he was still young enough. So he played the game, too.  "I'm going exploring," he said. "Want to come?" "You going to the map room?" "Maybe. I suppose so." "You go ahead then." "Well, all right. See you later?" "I'm not going anywhere." ways until he came to the main quadrangle of the city. At first glance it seemed identical .to the other hundreds of quadrangles. It was a small, square area, towers rising from each of its four corners. Tall, those towers were, some more than a hundred stories. They were wide at the base and tapered smoothly to the top story. Yet they had an aura of being squat and ugly -- of being somehow evil. Cary had long since ceased being awestruck by the towers. You can get used to anything after a while, even to a repetitive architecture, alien and cold. But what never failed to arouse an emotion in him was a small statue on a pedestal in the middle of the blue lawn of that one quadrangle. It was small, no more than three feet tall, and it was of a man and a woman. Cary moved closer and squatted d#wn to study it as he had done nearly every day since the crash. It had been the first thing they had found that gave any hint of the city's past. Hint? No, more of a puzzle-piece, a very small one. But it was still the only native object of art they had found. Cary, for what must have been the hundredth IF time, wondered what kind of people would live in a city where there was only one statue. No paintings, no fountains, only a small statue of a man and a woman. The figure of the man lay curled up, his hands pressed to his ears, his head bent over, seemingly ground into the stone pedestal. He seemed to be trying to cause himself pain. The figure of the woman stood straight above him. Her head was tilted back and her eyes seemed to focus on a point above the tops of the towers around her. Cary raised himself to his feet and stood over the statue. He looked down into the blank stone eyes of the woman. "Whom are you looking for?" he whispered. Not that he expected she would answer him. He was twenty-four years old. His best friend had died in the crash and he expected to die soon himself, once the food at the ship gave out. He no longer expected answers. Because he was young he refused simply to wait to starve. He made love and he explored. He wondered. One of the places he wondered about the most was in the map room. He entered the map room through the doorway in the base of the largest tower in the city. The doorway was the only other piece of ornamentation in the city. It was carved with what appeared to be designs but could have been lettering -- or, for all he knew, warnings against unauthorized personnel. He and Natalie referred to it as the map room but it was more of an auditorium than a room. Whatever it was, all of the immense first floor of the tower was devoted to it. The ceiling was a hundred feet overhead. It was the only tower they had found where the lighting system was still in working condition. The light had a slightly reddish cast, which was strange. The sun outside the tower was as yellow as that of Earth's. The red light was one more puzzle-piece -- like the statue and the carvings on the door. But the walls of the room were the main body of the puzzle. The keystone that seemed to say to him that all the other pieces would fit snugly if he could only decipher the one big mystery. From the ceiling to ten feet above the floor, the walls were engraved with maps -- starmaps. From the floor to the level of the maps, on each wall, were switches and dials and speaker grills, arranged in columns and sections. One part of the right wall contained four maps in a column and below it there were four speaker grills. Each speaker was surrounded and separated from the others by switches and dials. The first day Cary had spent in the room he had counted the speakers and maps. Simple multiplication had supplied him with an accurate count, since everything was arranged geometrically. There were ten thousand each of maps and speakers. The maps seemed engraved on the walls, which the reddish lighting of the room made appear deep black. Stars were shown as luminescent points of white. Many of the star patterns repeated and all matched the constellations that could be seen outside at night. But, breaking the sameness of the patterns, tiny yellow crosses appeared at different places on each map, one on every map. Carry ran his hands softly over a group of switches. As he had done many times before he closed one of the switches and, as usual, the speaker below it began to hiss softly, like a radio tuned between stations. It meant nothing to him and he cursed and almost savagely returned the switch to its previous position and the speaker to silence. Unnoticed above him a scarlet cross returned to glowing yellow. Y OU were out late last night," Natalie said. "Did you find any food?" She managed to keep her voice noncommittal. "There's none to be found. Any that might have been here spoiled a few centuries ago. You know that." Cary talked to her with only one part of his mind -- the other was still in the map room. "Perhaps we should cut back on the rations." "But we're already on half-rations. Look, there's no need to fool ourselves. The Institute could only afford to send out one probe and we were it. There's no help coming -- so there's no need to pretend there is." Cary looked reflectively at his empty ration bowl and stood up. "Where are you going?" Natalie asked. "I don't know. Outside." "You're going back to the map room, aren't you?" Her voice was frightened and small. "What of it?" "I don't know, Cary. I just wish you'd stay away from there. It frightens me. The stars and the statue -- the red lighting." Her voice changed to a more pleading tone. "Are you sure we've looked everywhere for food?" "Yes," Cary said angrily. "And as for the map room -- for all we know it might hold the key to what we came here for, to Celestial Anomaly One. We were sent here to explain it and I'm not going to give up on it. Otherwise I IF might as well lie down and wait to die." Half ashamed of his outburst, Cary threw his ration bowl into the trash receptacle and stalked out and away from the ship. Natalie watched him until he turned a corner and one of the towers of the city hid him from further view. she went out to water the flowers, the flowers Dr. Cahn of the Institute had presented to her as a bon voyage gift -- the flowers they had planted on Skip's grave. They blossomed on a small plot of ground marked by a small white aluminum cross on the far side of the ship, away from the gaping rent the crash had ripped in the smooth alloy of the hull. They hadn't wanted to bury their friend and pilot in a place where the ruined ship might seem to accuse him of failure. At times Natalie dreamed of the crash and she would awaken screaming or whimpering. She had been at her post in Life-Support Systems Control and Cary had been in the Engineering and Power Section. Skip had been on the Bridge. After they realized that the instructions they had been supplied with were useless they had decided to land on the planet. She had heard Skip scream, and knowing it was impossible for Cary to leave his own post during a landing, she had run to the Bridge to find their pilot moaning and ripping at the earphones he wore, whispering over and over, insanely, "Tell them to stop!" She seemed to remember Cary shouting instructions to her over the intercom as the ship made its first contact with the planet's atmosphere, trying to tell her how to control the ship. She thought that Skip might have come to his senses near the end and also have tried to help -- but none of it had been good enough. Someone had forced her to the couch and had strapped her in. And then -- chaos. When it was over Skip was dead. No one had strapped him to a couch and he had been too busy fighting the controls to do it for himself. She and Cary had been left alone on the planet -- a planet that had no business even to exist. She imagined Skip's voice. Tell them to stop! Shivering, she finished her task and returned to the ship. She went to the recorder she kept in her room and began speaking this day's entry into it. She could not have said why she bothered. It might have been for no other reason than to hear herself talk, to fill the silence. She definitely never expected her notes to be found. "Day Ninety-One," she began. "It has been two weeks since Cary found the entrance to the map room and he now is spending more and more of his time there. I am worried about him -- he grows more morose and sullen each day. He may be worrying about how we'll get out or be feeling guilty that he has not yet found a way for us. But there is no way out. Every day our stores are depleted by two more ration packs and there is no food to be found in the city. It is a fact of life that in twenty-one more days I will report that all our stores have been used. Shortly after that I will be too weak to make further reports. And after that I shall be dead. "Celestial Anomaly One still remains unexplained. I am beginning to doubt that we even arrived in the right place. Cary has told me that mistakes in the Schubert Drive computers are impossible. Yet the Drive is so hew that I cannot help but wonder. Certainly there is no trace of a neutron star anywhere in this region of this galaxy -- let alone a neutron star with a captured secondary. "I am beginning to feel that we may have stumbled onto a more complex mystery than the Institute sent us to find. The map room hints -- " She stopped and threw the microphone across the room. It hit the tapestry on the wall and slid to the top of her bed. "It only hints," she said, seating herself on the edge of her bed and rubbing her fists into her eyes. "It only hints -- " T HE map room occupied her thoughts for some time that night. That, and the  words in her own report -- twenty-one days and she would begin to die by starvation. She felt lonely and frightened. She tried to wait up for Cary but he was later coming back than was usual. She feel asleep. She dreamed. She was back on the ship -- but instead of Skip, Dr. Cahn of the Institute sat in the control chair. Where the bulkhead and the control panel should have been the hull of the ship was transparent. A mist like a huge, dirty cloud seemed to form outside the ship. The cloud cleared and grotesquely, horribly, she saw a gigantic head floating in space where the planet should have appeared. It was Skip's head and it was turning around and over, bobbing obscenely back and forth. "Pulsars," Doctor Cahn said, "may be very peculiar things." In her dream Skip's head rotated so that they were coming at it from beneath. Where the bloody stump should have been was only a smooth expanse of skin, as if no body had ever been attached there. She screamed to warn old Dr. IF Cahn of the impending crash but he ignored her. Skip's head and terrifying neck loomed larger and larger as they approached it. "You may find a neutron star," Dr. Cahnremarked, unperturbed, "or you may find something even stranger." He laughed, The ship's orbit carried them around to the other side of the head-planet and she could see that Skip was laughing, too. His eyes were wide and bloodshot. Drool dripped from the corners of his mouth and formed silvery moons around him. "In nineteen seventy-three," the doctor continued, "radio observatories throughout the world were surprised to find a pulsar with an exceedingly rapid period suddenly transmitting from the vicinity of the Lesser Magellenic Cloud. They were further stunned when, a year later, it stopped broadcasting as suddenly as it had begun." Skip was trying to say something to her but she could not make him out. Every time his immense mouth moved Dr. Cahn would speak over Skip's voice, which sounded like weak vibrations bouncing off the hull. "Celestial Anomaly One," the doctor said, "may tell us what the pulsars are, how they were formed and how they die. While the new Schubert Drive is still only experimental, the Institute has wrangled permission to send a probe out to the vicinity of the anomaly -- roughly five hundred light years from Earth -- " She noticed that Skip was leeringat her. She shuddered. "Anything you see while you are there, we on Earth will not have a chance to observe for five hundred years -- even providing that the pulsar syndrome does begin again." She could almost make out what Skip was shouting. "It's a riddle," old Dr. Cahn said. "It's a riddle." Skip's head loomed larger and larger. Near the end she could just make out what he was saving. "Help me!" Skip's head said. "Help me, help me. I'm dead. I'm dead! Why didn't you help me?" The last thing she saw was a huge tear falling from his eye and then they crashed. She awoke screaming. S HE told Cary about the dream the next morning. "Don't worry about it," he said. "You'd just finished watering the flowers on his grave. With everything else that's happening to us it's only natural you should be having your share of nightmares. I shouldn't have left you alone last night. I'm sorry, Natalie, but the more time I spend in that room, the more I think that it will take just one more small thing -- a clue I almost have and don't see -- and the whole thing will come clear. But don't worry any longer about the dreams. You'll take a pill tonight and it will keep dreams away." "You don't understand," she said. "It was horrible. That head. He had no body at all, Cary. He couldn't move out of our way -- all he could do was talk and no one could hear him until it was too late." Exhausted, she cradled her head on her arms. She listened to the hard clicking noises Cary's boots made as he paced up and down the stateroom. "No body at all," she mumbled sleepily. She heard him pull out a chair and seat himself. "Wait a minute," he said thoughtfully. "Wait just one minute." She raised her head to glance at him. His face was thoughtful and his fingers drummed on the table top. He stared directly into her eyes and she shivered. His face had taken on the same expression Skip's had worn before Cahn had crashed into it. "What did you say?" he asked. "Repeat what you said about Skip in your dream." "It was horrible," she said. She closed her eyes and she could still see it. "He had no body. All he could do was talk. And we couldn't hear him and then the ship just -- " "Come on," Cary said. He stood up and placed his hand on her arm. "Let's go." "But why, Cary?" "I think you've given me an idea. I hope I'm wrong, though. I only hope I'm wrong." Shortly they came to the main quadrangle and, without pausing to look at the statue, Cary propelled her into the map room. "All right," Cary said. "Start pulling switches." He demonstrated by pulling an oblong switch above one of the speakers. The speaker hissed and a yellow cross turned scarlet. "You're crazy." Natalie said. "Pull the switches!" he said; surprised to hear himself shouting. "The oblong ones over the speakers -- do it now." He slammed home another switch. "But, there are ten thousand of them," Natalie said, angry and confused. "Start!" He continued pulling switches, his back to her. But when he heard the clicking as she also began pulling the switches he smiled grimly. In approximately three and a half hours they had finished. Ten thousand scarlet crosses glittered on a background of stars. IF O NE entire section of the far wall swung silently open to reveal a short staircase. They climbed the staircase to the second floor of the tower. They were in another map room much like the one beneath it but in this one there were only one thousand maps and one thousand sets of switches and no speakers. Each map had ten yellow crosses. There were one thousand of the oblong switches, all closed. It took them less than an hour to open them all and soon there were one thousand scarlet crosses. And another door. They lost no time in opening it. Wordlessly, they entered the third level where there were one hundred maps and one hundred switches, no speakers and one hundred crosses on each map. They were soon in the last level which proved accessible to them. There was one map. It was a map with ten thousand crosses shining on it and it stretched from one end of the ceiling to the other and covered the walls to within four feet of the floor. The room was shaped like a half-sphere, so that the map appeared to be the actual sky outside the tower -- as if seen on a clear night through a glass plate emblazoned with ten thousand illuminated crosses. There were two switches. One was quite large and was surrounded by a hundred dials, all of which were registering at the far left of their scales. But on the other side of the room was a much smaller switch and below it dangled a pair of earphones. "Natalie," Cary said, "I'm going over there and putting on those earphones. If for any reason you think you should do so, pull them off me." He put on the earphones. Within two seconds he was clawing at them and whimpering. Natalie screamed his name. She felt unable to move. Cary fell to his knees, then full length to the floor. His body curled into the fetal position. He appeared to shrivel. His eyes closed. His mouth opened as if he were about to scream but no sound came. Sweat glistened on his brow and ran down over his eyelids. Small beads of blood dripped from his palms where his fingernails had dug in. His throat vibrated rapidly as his neck muscles worked -- still he did not scream. Natalie finally managed to pull the earphones from his head. For a moment there was no discernible change in his position, or his rigidity. Then he began to cry. Dry, moaning sobs racked his body. He raised himself to his knees, then to his feet. Natalie drew back as he glanced at her. His eyes seemed haunted. They did not focus on her. It was as if he had gone blind. "What happened? Oh Cary!" "I can't explain," Cary said. His voice was still unsteady. He took the earphones from her. "Put these on for a second -- then you'll understand. No, wait -- I'll hold them to your ears and then yank them off. More than a few seconds wouldn't be safe. I at least had an idea what to expect." She was too fearful to protest. The next thing she knew she was whirling. Her identity spun around and around. Voices, all speaking unknown languages, hammered at her. One, two, one hundred, a thousand, ten thousand voices, perfectly distinct, competing, blending, all battering at her mind. And all ten thousand of them were voices of terror. It was like ten thousand heretics screaming at the stake. Like the wails of ten thousand women being stoned -- like the screeches of ten thousand hopeless, helpless people about to die. And all of them were audible. The young ones and the old ones. The women, the men, the babies. Harsh gutteral words and soft, singing Cantonese cants. Monosyllabic grunts and polysyllabic wheezes. All of them like waves wearing away at butter-soft limestone. She felt her mind eroding, too. She screamed. Cary's face swam into focus before her. His concerned eyes looked deep into her. "Are you okay?" he asked. "They're all dead," she heard herself say. "They're all dead. Aren't they?" "I think so," Cary said. "What is this place?" "I think I know now, Natalie. It doesn't help us any. We're still going to die. But at least we'll be able to think, to know, that we're only a small part of a larger tragedy. That our deaths will be meaningless and therefore unimportant. You may want to die after you know what I know now. They had no body, Natalie -- all they had was a voice."lCary. I don't want to go insane alone." She moved closer to him and sat beside him on the floor under the huge map. But she did not touch him -- she was afraid to touch him. She had barely enough courage to listen and that was courage bom of the first stages of insanity. To listen was to take the first step to fulfillment of a deathwish. As he began to speak she could see the chasm gaping open before her, ready to receive her mind. She knew that she would fall. "We discovered a faster-thanIF light drive, Natalie, but they missed it. It's not surprising, really. It was mostly an accident that we found it at all and we didn't really need it. But they looked for it when they needed it -- and it eluded them." He was quiet for a moment. He lay back and stared up at the map. The tiny points of light from the crosses and stars illuminated his face dimly and glints of light reflected from his eyes. "This world found only a voice. There were ten thousand others. It must have been frustrating. To listen to the voices from far worlds, to learn other beings' languages and never be able to meet them. Hundreds of years -- and every few years a new voice would be discovered. And then something happened -- some threat came. Whatever it was they couldn't meet it and they couldnlt escape it." "So they called for help." Natalie said for him. She heard her own voice fill with the agony that had been in Cary's. She shared the secret with him. "They built this city two hundred years ago, in nineteen seventy-three, as a relay station. Ten thousand worlds cried for help, and this one place blended the called, broadcasted them and waited. No help came and the voices were silent." "Yes," Cary said. "That would explain it. Two hundred years ago a pulsar formed here -- one more powerful than any other known -- and only a year later it had vanished. When Earth could, it sent someone to find out the cause. That's us. We got here a hundred and ninety-nine years too late. But we found a tombstone. One desperate circuit left on broadcasting on a regular frequency on a normal wave. Like a shroud." It was again quiet in the room until Natalie spoke. "Is that what happened to Skip? The tombstone broadcast?" "I suppose so. We knew -- or at least had an inkling -- of what to expect and we heard it only for a few seconds each. He was forced to listen for nearly an hour. It's no wonder he went mad." "What can we do?" Natalie asked. Cary walked to the large switch and threw it open. A soft and genthe vibration shook the room. "I've turned the pulsar back on," he said. "They'll send someone else out here now. We'll likely be dead by then but we'll leave our notes to be found." "If only they had used lightspeed transmissions," Natalie said. "We could have deciphered those." "What good would that have done?" Cary asked. "It would have reached us one hundred years from now -- and as it stands we're nearly two hundred years too late." "Let's go back to the ship," she said. walked more than half-way back to the ship before they could no longer hear the humming of the generators, the vibrations of the pulsar. They slept. They ate. Their rations disappeared as inexorably as before but they no longer noticed. They no Longer cared. "We'll die here," Natalie said one night as they lay together. "It seems to be a place to die." Cary reached across the bed and pulled her closer to him but there seemed to be no meaning in his action. His body was as lifeless as his words. "There have been so many deaths -- I doubt that two more will even be noticed. How many lives could end on ten thousand worlds?" There was no answer to his question and the silence again covered them. Each lay awake and imagined shapes and nightmares fleeing through the dark. Each of them thought of the towers and the city and of what it would be to share death with so many. They did not make love. They had not made love for many nights. Death had made them friends and they knew each other too well even to pretend they were strangers. They could not substitute life for death or love for fear -- and they would not lie to each other or to themselves. Day came and they scarcely heeded it. Their actions were routine, automatic, divorced from what they thought and felt. Cary ran his hands over the controls of the ship. He tested the circuits of the Life-Support Systems as he had every day. He made his daily entry in the log and checked all functional instrument readings. For a moment he did not believe what he saw on the board. He double-checked the reading and verified it. He waited for the wave of emotion to hit him. He was not surprised to notice that what he had seen did not affect him. "Natalie," he said and then realized he was whispering. He repeated her name more loudly and she turned to him. "Normalspace radar has picked up another ship just outside atmosphere. I can't signal them but they must be here for us. We're rescued." He tried to inject gaiety into his voice but he could only think of death. Natalie leaned over the board to check the reading. When she spoke her voice, too, sounded drab and lifeless. "So they sent another ship," IF she said. "So old Cahn must carry more weight than we thought -- they did outfit a second expedition. How long before they get here?" "A couple days maybe." "Are you happy?" she asked.  "No. I don't know, I guess I am. But it all seems so useless." They spent the night talking like sad children. They were trying to recapture their images of Earth, their will to live. But in the morning they felt the same. "There's someone outside," Cary said. "I'll open the hatch for him." Natalie and Cary watched on the viewscreen as the man outside stepped through the dilating hatch. "Not our uniform," Natalie said. "Have you ever seen one like that before?" "No," Cary answered. "But look." He pointed at another section of the board. "According to our radar the ship is still in orbit. I don't understand -- " . "Perhaps they sent down a shuttle vehicle. They're here, I suppose that's all that matters." The man entered the control room. He was taller than he had appeared on the viewscreen, he smiled at the two of them. Cary motioned him to sit and gave his report. He told their rescuer about the tombstone they had landed on and about death. He listened to himself talk and was surprised that his voice remained so steady. He saw Natalie standing and crying silently in the far corner of the control room. He knew she was not crying from relief. He wondered how long it would be before he broke down himself -- and whether he would ever be able to fit the pieces back together once he let them fall. He doubted he could but he didn't care. Suddenly he saw that the man he was speaking to was smiling widely. He stammered and broke off his report. "And where are the skeletons?" the man asked. Cary was speechless. He forced himself to control his anger. "I don't know. What difference does it make? Perhaps they had no bone structure. It doesn't matter. They're dead. Haven't you heard anything I've said?" The visitor grinned. "Listen to me," he said, "it was decided there is a debt that must be paid. There are things you have to know -- it would not be right if you never learned them. I am part of a rescue attempt. But not your rescue -- that will not take place for another twenty-two hours. My own rescue mission stretches across seven centuries and involves the people of four galaxies. "Ten thousand worlds did cry out for help and you two heard them. But not too late. When you are rescued you will file a report with the Institute. We know this because we have that report, that report which had been saved in the computer files for decades, centuries. Nothing, Cary, is beyond man's grasp. First he wanted to fly and he built himself wings. Then on to the planets of his own system and then to the stars. Whatever man has wanted to do, whatever he felt a strong enough desire to do, he has or he surely will do. "A strong desire." The man repeated the words and he seemed to be holding back his own tears. "To save a life is one desire. To save the lives on ten thousand worlds became nearly an obsession. A way was found. Seven hundred years from now, in your time, that way will be found and it will be applied. In my frame of reference, it has been applied." He extended his hand toward them. "The people of ten thousand worlds have asked me to extend their hand of friendship and thanks to you, Natalie and Cary, across the boundaries of both time and space. You were the ones who heard their cry for help. It took us seven hundred years to find a way to answer but without your understanding the cry might have gone unheard." Cary took the man's hand and Natalie placed hers on both of theirs. "Rescued through time," Natalie said softly. "But still -- how can we believe you? How can we ever know for sure? We must be sure." "I can tell you nothing else," he said, "only that you had better go quickly when your second expedition arrives. The catastrophe you thought had already happened will begin two months from this time-date." He laughed, "It wouldn't be healthy to still be around. Be sure and file that report -- oh, hell, I know for a fact that you did." He left then, and Natalie and Cary awaited their own rescuers. For a while they still had their doubts and fears, but then they remembered and understood. It was Natalie who first said it. "The statue," she said, and she smiled for the first time in many days. "The statue!" Then Cary remembered also and together they took one more walk on the world that had never died. They walked to the main quadrangle. There, on the blue lawn, was the small statue. Of a man and of a woman, overcome by a cry for help. A tiny statue -- and they now knew whom it honored.  IF time machine could not be innation of the inventor's ancestors vented, of course. For that reason, by a disgruntled legatee. That it never was invented. Go look it kind of thing. Because it could up. The paradoxes negating the not happen, it did not happen, possibility of the device are too There never was a time machine, prohibitively profound. Consider: Was there? the jaunts, the murders, the alterTime is a constant. Think about it. (Planck and Einstein had some thoughts on the matter, as well as myself.) It moves forward, only forward, creating chains of purposeless causality, tearing at everything that resists it -- making shreds and pulp of endeavor, creating what becomes known in retrospect, then, as "memory" or "loss." Turn it around, stumble to the imploding mouth of time and you'll only get a sound, wrenching bite on your meddling fingers. So there. You can't fool around with time. As I said, think about it. Max Robin did. He couldn't think very well, of course, having been deprived of the educational advantages of secondary school, undergraduate school, graduate school, professional school. Nevertheless, and within certain crude limits, Jie tried. He was a born thinker. So much so that he even ended up in the library now and then and struggled with microfilms of obscure professional journals -- not that he was sure he understood what they were all about. He went through the almost unbearable exegesis of men who probably looked much like himself -- he did so with loathing but nevertheless driven. Eventually, of course, the effort drove him even crazier than he had been in the first place. Consider Max. He is one of those dim, anonymous men you find eating lunches from paper bags at the Automat, steaming cups of tea somewhere to the left of the numb, stricken, stunned gaze. Or -- oh, yes -- going through microfilms and ancient newspapers at the public library. Wide, staring eyes slammed into a face emerging almost indifferently from a drab checked shirt, uncashed unemployment check nestling in the breast pocket. That kind of thing. Now and then he cursed strange young women on the subways for displaying their bodies. But Max had (or has) this one enormous obsession. It redeems him. It even purifies, as great obsessions have been known to do. He wants, to travel in time. All the way back. All the way forward. What's the difference? The important thing is to punch through to the end and get some damned answers. Probably looks the same at either end. Never mind why. Who knows? Why do some men go to the West Coast, some become touts; still others yearn to be published writers -- these are the really dangerous ones -- or absconding stockbrokers. The analysis of selection is not within our compass. This is a fiction piece. Max Robin wanted to move in time. It would be really great to know the way everything is -- put me one up on the sonsofbitches. Unlike potential writers or absconders, however, Max's possiIF bilities were not clearly defined for him. He lacked precedent, a sense of history. The writer always has the rejection slip, the stockThe potential time traveler, however, is in a bind. As you know, time machines do not exist at present -- neither do time travelers (this proves the point that it was never invented -- surely we would otherwise have been visited.) Not even what we might call prevailing literature; exists on the subject, let alone a how-to kit. Oh, there are science-fiction stories and novels, of course, but for Max at least these did not count. They deal with extrapolation, speculation and so on, usually with an almost apologetic air of clinging disreputability. Despite the increasing popularity of these works in the Speculative Sixties, Max Robin found himself repelled by the category. It ain't got nothing to do with reality... Consider him now more specifically if you will, please. Max Robin, forty-eight years old, more than a little battered on the top with white patches which would be less ominous if they were simple baldness, the familiar dull eyes now suspended openly in his skull as he looks at something -- a contraption -- he has constructed in his room. I did it. nd I ain't even got no degrees. I built it myself, by golly! He means this to be a recollection but since you and I are already in the room the thought comes out rather as an announcement. T HE something we are looking at is about four feet high and wide, six feet in depth (the proportions, then, very much like Max's own), made of coils and wires and dangerously frayed electric cords of some sort. Power must be on because static leaps from one coil to the next but it does so without purpose, without even that venom and air of danger which can be associated with bad machinery in abrupt decline. Suspended at the heart of the network is a pocket watch which dangles from an uncoiled paper clip. It ticks feebly. It indicates to us -- we have excellent eyesight, the two of us -- that the hour is two-thirty and we make the inference that it is morning from the absence of light through the uncurtained windows. Then again, thanks to certain architectural innovations, it is almost always dark in Max's tworoom, furnished. He prefers it that way. "Son of a gun," Max says reverently. "I think I've gone and invented it. It really looks as if it's going to work. It's my time machine, all mine." He can be excused, after all his months of struggle, a little megalomania. "No one else would have had the guts to do it," Max says. "Only Max Robin could work it out." He would prefer, of course, to address these remarks to an audience. Max, like most creative geniuses, is not above a little human contact applied in small doses, used sparingly. Unfortunately he has no companions in these rooms. There have been no visitors since the day several months ago when Max, taking his ease in customary fashion, was interrupted by his landlady's demands for rent. After he subsequently took her firmly by a heavy arm, threw her out of what he called his "chambers" and stated that if she ever returned he would evict her, his rooms have been without guests. Since the lady at issue is something of a sadi-maso (I hope I am using these terms correctly; I am not a specialist) she accepted this dictum without wonder and their relationship, such as it is, has more recently devolved around Max's occasional, convulsive payments of rent. At the moment, locked in his regret. Max would even have settled for his landlady. Since you and I are already here, however, we may suffice. Ordinary fellows, both of us, but in the "right place at the right time" as they say, and therefore the best of all alternatives. It is necessary, however, to introduce ourselves. I do so in the most graceful -- if abrupt -- manner possible. Max is not a man interested in social intricacies. Stepping forward the few necessary inches to bring Max's attention to me, I say, "Congratulations? Is that the time machine? Did you just invent it?" All questions. I am not sure of anything. Max considers us with mild approbation, satisfied that we exist and not interested in pursuing the matter beyond that. It would be strange if he did. Max takes most things in his life -- there being so very, very few -- for granted. "Yeah," he says, "that's mine. I did it." "Does it really work?" "I'm pretty sure it does. I don't know for a fact, though. It's never been tested. I'll be making a trial run in just a minute, now, just as soon as I knock off this cigarette." I note that Max's eyes, during the last part of this, have wandered over and set on you, without eagerness, but with that slow, dawning suspicion which is, perhaps, Max's most characteristic manner of confronting the universe. Anxious to avert a scene -- which for reasons I will not go into would be highly complex -- I say hurriedly, "He's a friend of mine. He just came along with me." You nod to this, beam and try in your various ways toerify this IF statement for Max. Like me -- although speechless in your case -- you do not wish to involve Max in an extended analysis of your presence. But he averts all this by shrugging and turning away. It is difficult, at times, to maintain the fiction that important inventors maintain their own fiction of involvement. Max knocks out the cigarette, considers the machine for some time and says, "Well, I guess I'd better get going if I want to take it for the trial run." "We'll be watching," I say. "It's geared to send me back fifteen minutes in time and leave me there. Just for the trial run, that is. I figure if I'm lucky I meet up with myself and we have a conversation or something -- then I vanish. Or go away. I ain't gone any further than that. I don't have that kind of mind." "That's perfectly all right," I assure him. "I mean, how much can a man do?" Max asks rather sullenly, I think. "I invented the damned thing. That's enough. How do I know how it's going to work or anything like that?" "Sounds all right to me," I say. "Doesn't it?" I indicate that you should nod and obediently you do, roundeyed. With a sharp, covert gesture I indicate to you that you are on the point of sucking your thumb and warn you to withdraw it, sir. "Of course," Max says, "it could go completely haywire. Nobody ever done this kind of thing before. How can I make any guarantees? I don't know i I should be on the trial run. I invented it, after all. I'm too important to waste. What if it blows?" "I'm sure it couldn't," I say. I consider him with what I hope he interprets as high admiration, even trust. For reasons which will develop shortly I am not interested in crossing Max. "You want to go?" he asks. "Can't do it," I say regretfully. "Wish I could but I have a bad stomach. I can't take conveyances of any kind." "Oh, you really wouldn't be traveling, you know. You'd just sort of be moving along in -- " "I'm sorry," I say delicately. "All the same principle. Terrible nausea. I might spoil your machine if you put me in there." "That's a point," he says. He tilts a finger to his chin, considers the ceiling. "That makes sense. What about him, then?" He points to you. "Oh, he's just along to keep me company," I say. "Here for the ride, so to speak. I don't think he'd make the right subject for an experiment. He can't talk, you see, and he couldn't tell you any of his impressions. He came out that way. He just couldn't -- " "Well," Max says cunningly. "Well." The cunning is manifested as a subtle flush which cleaves his face in half, gives those halves the preternatural appearance of gloating cross-eyed at one another. "It doesn't matter that he's a dummy or something. The important thing is that he breathes and we'll know if he keeps on breathing." He reacts in an explosion of agility, a series of motions too rapid to follow even if I have any interest in following them, which I certainly do not. When it is all over you have been hurled into dead center of the contraption, a belt winched loosely around your waist. Max rubs his hands and moves toward a switch. "Look, Max," I say, trying to explain, even though there is nothing after all, to discuss. "You shouldn't have bothered doing that. You see, you'll only -- " "Too late, brother," he says with some satisfaction. A switch is closed and there is a sound of breaking glass, a dispersion of smoke. When I recover my vision it is quite obvious that you are gone. I take this with regret, if without surprise. It means that I must go almost all the rest of the way alone, now. "Well, it does something," Max says, considerably subdued by that knowledge. The ultimate pity of his condition is that he did not believe the machine would work. He had not fully realized this truth about himself until this moment and the resultant depression was strong, even for Max Robin. "Now I guess we have to wait and see if the guy comes back in fifteen minutes. If he does, I guess I got it made. I'll get a patent." "No, you won't," I say sadly. "He's never coming back." "How can you say a thing like that? Just tell me how you come off saying something like that!" Max shouts. Suddenly, he is completely discomfited, riding on the raw edges of his Automat-nerve, back with the microfilm. "If it works he'll come back." "They never come back. Because time moves ahead," I say, still feeling the pointless sorrow. "So his fifteen minutes will never catch up with yours. You'll run in a straight line forever, like blind cross-qpuntry runners. We could have told you all of this if you'd listened. That's what we came back here for, as a matter of fact. To tell you. But now it's entirely too late and things will just have to work themselves out." "What work themselves out? What cross-country runners? What coming back?" It is a little too much for Max. "Listen, I don't really have to listen to this. I'll go out for a drink or something and leave you here. The hell with you." IF "You can't leave. You see, you can't get out. Max," I say, hoping that he will listen, spreading my arms to convince him of my utter sincerity. "Max, you're already in the machine." "Me? In the machine?" "Whom do you think you put in there?" Max blinks, shakes himself slightly like a confused dog. "This is just like science fiction," he says. "I told you, there's no such thing. I figured it all out. Time is time -- you can't fool around with it. You never meet yourself and you never change the past, you just kind of move around in it all the way back and forth. I know that." "That's your theory. Now, if you'll excuse me, my fifteen minutes are up. I really can't stay, you see. Not any longer." I leave. Actually it has been extremely close. I clear Paradox by only a matter of seconds. But clear it I do and now I am gone. Quite alone in his room, then, the inventor Max Robin stands in the silence, looking at his machine. It hums peculiarly and there is a sawing noise, then a sound of distant plopping. Max stares with wonder. It is happening now. Right this moment, it is happening. But there is no one to warn or even to audit him so Max can only watch it occur. And so, then, from all corners of the mighty time machine -- from all the crevices and interior spaces -- Max Robin is coming out. There are five of him, ten of him, eleven, fifteen and a thousand and they are all falling on the floor, struggling against one another to wizened, tiny feet, trying to stagger toward him. Their eyes are wild. They are almost as wild as his own. The mouths -- wee, gaping mouths -- are saying words. They are trying to make some kind of a point. Unfortunately they are barely coherent. "I told you not to mess around with this, you bum," is what they are trying to say. "If you had stuck to your rolls and your sex-dreams none of this would have happened. But now, look. Look -- " Since they are all Max Robin himself, however, this fails to come out with the necessary forcefulness. Max never had much selfrespect anyway. Then they turn on him and begin to strike. That works. It should. He is, after all, severely outnumbered.  all I ever was or might be was collapsing inexorably inward, toward that imaginary point two inches behind my eyes where the essential me had always dwelt. I was dying. I was a bodyless point of ego in a sea of final nothingness, a mote beating frantically against the night. I was dying. Never to breathe the air of Earth again, never to feel Loy's body against mine, never to know pain, never even to drift in the private world behind my own eyelids. I was dying and, as men do when they have time to contemplate the moment, I was dying badly, a crazed whimpering thing crying futilely against the dark. I I shrieked once in my fading mind, had time to think briefly of Loy, to say goodbye forever to the image of her in my mind. And I was not. I had gone, I had not been and now I was. For a long moment I uld think of nothing else. To S isted and then to be. I be sweeter? What ven could anyone ask? and knew walls gave lying on my mp rock. I rcle around bloated naked brains, pulsing and squirming hideously, brains supported by slimy green bodies like dog-sized slugs. This was not heaven. This was the fifth planet of a yellow sun far, far from Sol. I was alive and I began to remember. The first thing I remembered was Loy. Where was she? What were they doing to her? I found myself screaming her name. I felt a pressure in my mind, a presence, cold and v clammy, without passion, without malice, without emotion, without mercy. A pressure that was a questioning, a search, a leaching. I began to remember more. Fifth planet of a yellow sun. A fair green world, not like the others Loy and I had found. Loy -- my love, my woman, my wife. A honeymoon world, a world fit for colonization, hence a world where, by the terms of the contract, we could spend the remaining six months of our Honeymoon Year enjoying the green grass and the blue sky and the fresh clean air. No more weeks in space in the cramped two-place Scout, no more methane worlds, chlorine worlds, jungle worlds, desert worlds. The Honeymoon World, the Jackpot World, the Bonus World. Death World. "Loy. Loy. Loy." The circle of gray, quivering brains seemed to pulse faster, as if with some not-quite-familiar strain, and I felt the pressure in my mind change, reach for language concepts in my brain, pick, choose and form words. The woman is elsewhere , the words that were and were not of my mind told me. Elsewhere. The fog began to evaporate from my memory. We had surveyed the planet from orbit and, finding it fair and habitable, we had landed the Scout in a lush green meadow close by wooded hills. Loy smiled at me as we stepped out of the airlock and inhaled the fragrant heady odors of growing things. "There," she said, putting her arm around my waist. "Now aren't you glad we decided to take a Honeymoon Contract?" "We were so right," I said with a little laugh. The idea had been hers in the first place. My attitude had been that the government was not about to give something for nothing. A Honeymoon Contract sounded like the best of all possible deals. The government provided any couple who could pass the minimal physical and psychological tests with a two-place Scout to roam the stars together for a year. All we had to do in return was make a brief survey of each planet we found and, if we were lucky enough to find one suitable for colonization, we could spend the rest of our year on it and collect a bonus that would set us up for life when we returned to Earth. Of course, the government did not act out of sentiment. The human race needed room to expand and expansion meant new planets. Perhaps one out of fifty solar systems had a habitable one. The economical way to find it was to send out plenty of cheap, twoplace Scouts. Under ordinary conditions, two people simply could not stay sane cooped up alone for a year in the vastness of interstellar space. But a man and a woman? Necessity had made a hard governmental policy out of an ancient romantic notion -- the stars were for lovers. Loy had not seen harsh fact. To her all creation was designed for our pleasure and enjoyment. The most natural thing in her world was for a thoughtful government to provide us with a free honeymoon. The succession of chlorine worlds, dead rocks and gas giants we had discovered in the first six months of our Honeymoon Year had left her attitude largely untouched -- after all, we had each other. The most beautiful thing about Loy was that she could make me see things her way. So we were as children together on a summer Sunday in the park. IF It was that kind of world, a world of low, broad-bladed grass, brilliantly feathered birds, high blue sky, small six-legged rodents, berry bushes, fruit trees. A happy, innocent Honeymoon World. You can see how sappy and wrapped up in each other we had become. No world is a park or a garden. The absence of a full spectrum of predators usually means that something sentient has wiped out the competition -- so they told us in our briefings. Finally, after days of -- I don't know what else to call it but romping in the meadow -- we decided on a little real exploring in the nearby woods. Loy was all for traveling as lightly as possible, taking only a sleeping bag and some concentrates to supplement the local fruits and berries, which had proved edible and tasty. We had the closest thing we ever had to an argument when I insisted on taking energy rifles along. "It's just not right, Bill," she said, pouting and canting her blond head to one side at an engaging angle. "This planet has been so nice to us. It trusts us and it's only right that we trust it. Carrying those ugly guns -- it just isn't right, it's being, well, you know, nasty." I tried to win the argument with a kiss but she turned sulkily away. "Look, honey," I said, "we don't know what's in those woods. Things may be there that are nastier than we are. An energy rifle can stop an elephant. When it's scary and gloomy in those woods, with strange night noises and things scuffling in the dark, you'll be glad I insisted on bringing the rifles even if we never use them." "But Bill -- " "Look at it this way. If we don't have the guns, we'll have to be suspicious and cautious every time we hear a strange sound -- we won't be able to trust anything. But if we do have the guns we won't have to be leary because an energy rifle can stop anything." "Masculine logic." She sighed, but the sound had a giggle behind it. I gave her a hug and we took the rifles. T HE woods were dark and dense with gnarled, thicktrunked trees and tightly interlaced networks of leafy branches. But the undergrowth was very light, we saw no dangerous animals and we made good time. By nightfall we had reached the base of the low, rolling hills. Loy cooked a meal of concentrates, topped off with local fruits and berries. We crawled into the sleeping bag early. After several hours of enjoying the cool woods and the night sounds and each other, we drifted off into a pleasant sleep. At some time during the night, half in dream, half awake, I felt an odd pressure in my mind. The feeling was strange, but not really menacing. It was an awareness of an interest not my own, a cold, emotionless questing for knowledge rifling through my mind as if it were some encyclopedia. A questing, a questioning, a knowledge-vacuum, with no form, no flavor, no personality behind it. I lay motionless, my eyes closed, in that gray borderland between sleep and wakefulness, wondering whether or not I was dreaming and not really caring. Suddenly Loy screamed beside me. I was instantly wide awake, eyes open, and I saw them. Encircling our sleeping bag were ten monstrosities about the size of large dogs -- bodies like great slimy slugs, supporting what appeared to be naked living brains, wet and pulsating, ten times the size of a human brain. The things had no arms, no legs, no tentacles, just ghastly brains on slimy slug bodies. Loy was clinging to me, shaking and sobbing. I reached instinctively for the energy rifle close by the sleeping bag. Something froze my arm, then the rest of me. I was paralyzed and now I was aware, dreadfully aware, of the alien presence in my mind. I felt it grope in my mind for words, memories of concepts,, pick, choose and form words in my mind. Who? From where? What? Dazed, numb, only partially in control of the inner workings of my own mind, I found myself forming mental answers to the mental questions. We're humans from Earth, another world circling another star. Other intelligences, the presence thought into my mind. Other races. Interesting. Possibilities of much new data. Knowledge-expansion. Good. There was no emotion behind any of it, unless you consider an almost obscene lust for knowledge tions tried to form themselves in my mind. I felt the mental presence beat them away with casual indifference. Different , the presence said, growing ever more facil with the borrowed words. You and the other are different from each other. Your physical structures are not contributing to the same mental structure. Do separate races share your planet? I was in no mood to answer inane questions. Loy had gone quiet in my arms, as paralyzed as I was. I knew that she was still terrified, and I had to act, if only mentally, to remove the cause of her fear. But my mind was not my own. I felt my total mental reIF sources struggling to answer the alien's questions, my entire stock of memories and mental capacities rise to do its bidding, to fill the yawning knowledge vacuum. I watched, almost as an outside observer, as my mind marshaled itself and answered. I found myself explaining what I had never even stopped to consider: what it was to be a human being, the difference between men and women, how Earth was inhabited by billions of separate organic systems called men, whose mental structures were distinct and separate and separate mental universes arising from an equal number of physical organisms. I felt the alien presence in my mind boggle, almost stagger, undisbelieve. In that moment of confusion I felt the thing's control over my mind waver for an instant, and I used that moment to shape my own confusion into a demand, a question. Who , what are you? Then I tried to reach for the energy rifle again and felt the presence resume its iron control. I sensed a securing hesitation in the thing, then reluctant decision. I felt words forming themselves in my mind. Knowledge on your part may facilitate accumulation of data. I...am. I do not think of my mental structure as "I." The presence detected by your mental structure is that of the mental structure of this planet. This planet bears many species of organisms. The organisms you now see are one such species. They are so specialized that their separate physical structures give rise to one unified mental structure; that is, to what you think of as "me." These organisms have no other function but the erection of this mental structure. The mental structure thus erected may control the physical structure of this planet, the sentient being, the intelligent race. According to all previously accumulated data, I had hypothesized that I was the only such mental structure that existed, the only center of awareness in the universe. Now data is made available to the effect that at least one planet exists where tures, so that in effect your planet races. This promises a vast new area of knowledge and much data that may now be accumulated. It was my turn to boggle, to be by the very nature of the contact -- to disbelieve. An intelligent of individual organisms giving rise to but one mind. A mind alone, without companionship. without love or hate or jealousy -- without, I suddenly realized, the concept of death. Emotions, hopes, fear -- which in the last analysis is always the fear of individual death -- how could a mind alone know any of these? What could motivate such a mind, impel it to action? Suddenly, I felt myself virtually unable to think. The alien mind was dampening my thoughts with irresistible power. It seemed to rejoice, to loll in a kind of obscene anticipation. Such knowledge. Such a rich store of new data! Such a wealth of new possibilities to explore, experiments to perform! And I realized that only one thing could occupy such a mind: a quest for knowledge that was not abstract, not cold and intellectual, but raised to the level of a basic emotion -- the basic emotion, a drive virtually sexual in its power and intensity. I felt Loy tense against me. I sensed her fear and shared it. We had no point of empathy with such a mind. This entity was asocial, hence amoral, to its very core. And we were totally in its power. Let us go, I said wordlessly to the world-mind. Let us go and well tell you all you want to know. When we return to Earth well send back scientists, men who specialize in knowledge. You can learn more from them than you ever can from us. Yes, that will be good. Later. After all possible data has been accumulated from you. Much is to be learned. It will take a long time to exhaust the possibilities. Especially concerning the peculiar states of mental structure you call emotions. And most particularly the emotion you call love. It seems to be the most powerful and the most important. But this other . the one you call death -- that will require much, much experimentation. A ND I remembered, now I remembered all. How the alien mind had seized control of our bodies, how we had been trotted against our wills unerringly through the night to the system of caves in the hills, surrounded by the brain-slugs. How Loy had been separated from me in the caves. How I had been lying on the cave floor for an unknown length of time, somehow needing neither food nor water, feeling neither hunger nor thirst, totally controlled by the world-mind. I remembered the probing, the endless rifling of my mind for things of significance and things trivial until everything I had ever known, every memory I had ever had, matters I had thought I had forgotten or had never known I knew had been sucked from me iF and greedily devoured by the knowledge-crazed mind. And then they had started in earnest the experiments, the endless, horrible experiments. Pain, hunger, ecstasy, fear, lust, the whole spectrum of emotions and drives -- the thing made me experience them over and over again, while it hovered in my mind, observing, clucking to itself, recording, evaluating, savoring. I remember asking again and again what was happening to Loy and finally, when the world-mind was good and ready, it let me know. Loy was conveyed into the chamber by a bevy of our captors, her body thin and drawn and not her own. I was forced to watch, immobilized, while what had been done to me was done to her. I watched the pain and the fear and the lust play over her features, and i all the while I could feel the presence in my mind assessing my reactions, accumulating the knowledge of how a man feels when he is watching his bride being tortured. Then the process was reversed and Loy was forced to look on while the world-mind did things to me. Finally the thing was satisfied. Most interesting , the words in my mind said. Although your two mental structures are separate entities , there seems to be some interaction between them. If one of you undergoes unpleasant stimuli both of you react. It is as if your mental structures were partially connected.' This seems to be at least the major part of the phenomenon you call love. Interesting. Love would seem to be one of the two strongest aberrations called emotion to which your mental structures are prone. One may consider it one pole of your emotional spectrum. The other pole seems to be a fear of this phenomenon you call death. That will have to be investigated most thoroughly. Loy had been led out and I died for the first time. Now I truly remembered everything. This was not the first time I had died and been reborn. How many times had I died? I had no way of knowing. Each death had been real -- a death without memory of the earlier ones. Each time had somehow been the one and only time, all-obliterating death itself, and -- Very good , the presence in my mind said. You have died one hundred and seventy-three times. Much data has been gathered, much has been understood. This death is the worst possible thing that can happen to you, the permanent destruction of your mental structure. You now understand death totally. You know in detail heroes die but once just what it is to die. Nothing that you can experience is more unpleasant. The same reaction was observed in all the woman s deaths as well. I cried aloud, " You filthy -- " It cut me off impatiently, the brain-things pulsing and squirming in the pale blue light. It was necessary that she undergo the same experiences, both as a control and as a condition of the final exp erim en t. In my mind I responded fearfully. Final experiment? Yes. All possible data has been accumulated, except for one most interesting experiment. It has been established that one pole of your emotional spectrum is love. The other is fear of death. It but remains to determine which is stronger. At the conclusion of this experiment, one of you will be permitted to return to your own planet. I gasped. One of us? Of necessity, the presence said. The purpose of this final experiment is to determine which is the stronger stimulus: love or death. You will both undergo the experience of death one final time. This time you will be permitted to retain the memories of all your previous deaths as you die. But this time you will really die. You will not awaken from this death. Each of you will have only one way of saving yourself -- you must sacrifice the other. You have only to declare in your mind that you wish the other to die in your place and it shall be done. Then you will be allowed to return to your planet. It should be a most informative experiment. And once again I felt the blackness closing in, numbness overwhelming my extremities, my body sloughing away from me. I felt myself sinking slowly but inexorably into nothingness. But this time the terror was even greater, for now I remembered this happening before, again and again and again. As each tiny fraction of my universe was chipped away, I was anticipating, knowing how it would be, fearing it an instant before it came, out of my deep knowledge of exactly what it was really to die. And I knew that Loy was feeling it, too. I felt my consciousness collapsing upon itself, contracting, fading to a point and every moment I was anticipating the next, dying a thousand deaths in one. Inward, ever inward, the screaming animal thing that was me contracted, faded, beating hopelessly against that final, infinitely anticipated oblivion. And Loy was dying, too. I was reduced to a mote of consciousness, a thing in itself, by itself. A thing fading, shrinking -- and all around was the night, IF the consuming, endless night. The end of me-ness, of hope and fear and pain and love. Of all I ever was, ever would be. And Loy was dying, too. The words were a constant refrain. No amount of bravery could save her. I could not save her. Nothing, no one could. We were both dying and only one of us could live, the one wtio doomed the other. I was no longer a man, no longer a husband, no longer a lover. I was a thing, a mewling, screaming, panicked thing, a thing that had died and died and died and remembered every moment of those multiple deaths. I was a dying thing, an ego hungering for another instant of life and the black was closing in. And then there was nothing left of me but a howling maddened voice shrieking against the night -- no! Screaming and begging, holding on to each instant like a man hanging irom a cliff by his fingers, each moment a little more of the edge crumbling beneath his fingernails. And Loy was dying, too. I could not save her. I could only save me. And suddenly love was a faraway thing of another world, another plane of existence. There was no love. There was no Loy. Only me. And soon there would be an end to me and there would be nothing, nothing, nothing, howling and empty and everything lost to me forever. And before I had decided anything, before I realized what I was doing, I was screaming: "Her. Kill her. Not me. Not me. Her. Her. Her." A presence far away said simply, You shall live. The blackness closed in but I was no longer afraid. to the ship. Two of the brainslugs stood beside me. In front of me stood Loy. She was staring intently at the ground. Interesting , said the worldmind. The experiment is concluded, and the results are as anticipated. It was, of course , not necessary that either of you actually die. You are free to leave. The two brain-slugs began to wriggle swiftly away toward the hills, leaving twin trails of translucent slime in the grass. Loy and I stood for long moments not speaking, not able to look at each other. Finally, after what seemed an eternity, our eyes met for the briefest instant. But I knew from that flicker of a moment that all that had ever been between us was dead and gone forever. I only needed that momentary glance into her eyes to know with terrible certainty that Loy had made the same choice I had.  The most dangerous question in the Universe may be -- What's new? hall of the Record Registry was to feel one plodded through deep dust, although the floor was spotless, clean and firm underfoot. A hard heel could make it ring but so vast was the hall that echoes died on the way to the walls and roof which might have reflected them. That which lay here deep and made the going heavy was despair. At certain points on the wall, at about the height of a man, red figures shone: a one, a zero, a three, a nine and a four. Last year the group had ended in a three. Next year it would most likely end in a five. Below, above, on every side was a feeling of pressure, a sense that the air was being made to shimmer -- from this shimmering sifted down the intangible motes of hopelessness that settled not on the bodies but on the minds of those who came here. The weight of those particles which were without weight was graphed by apathy: less laughing, more anger; less anger, more sighing; less sighing, more silence. This was the Record Registry in which had been stored data about the achievements of every intelligent race known to have inhabited this galaxy: the Frotuglize, the Zyphrians, the Homoclawk, the Madgerive -- facts garnered from serve as a yardstick for the current precariously dominant species, the oxygen-breathing biped known as Man. This was the place to which proud spokesmen from thousands of the planets that Man now occupied had come, anxious to have their accomplishments also marked in the imperishable pattern of the computer memories as they who did it.  This was the Ultimate Arbiter: the passionless machine that ate the energy of the stars for food and stored the knowledge of the galaxy for -- satisfaction? Here, now, hoping against hope that the long, long time they waited for a verdict on the offerings they had brought -- the pansensory tapes, the certified time marks, the attestations and documentary evidence and other things by the shipload -- indicated that they would finally secure a place in the Record list and cause the figures on the wall to revert to zero, were four isolated individuals, two women and two men. By turns, each watching for onethird of a standard day, they monitored display panels set into the wall upon which the verdicts must eventually appear. By custom those who had been here longest waited farthest from the entrance. By custom, also, one did not speak of the hoped-for record-breaking accomplishment that had caused the people of a whole faraway planet to send its delegates to the Registry. All too easily two delegations might have come here to post an identical claim. That suspicion was haunting, inescapable; drawn apart, the four no longer spoke excitedly to one another but remained quiet and revolved in their minds the terrifying possibility of null achievements. As the red-glowing, figures showed, it was ten thousand three hundred and ninety-four years since a new Record had been entered on the list. peared in the enormous doorway the soft, directionless voice of the automatic enunciator caused those who were already waiting to turn incuriously and look that way, but only the newest IF of the former arrivals retained enough spirit to raise a glass and inspect him at a distance. The others were content to wait -- he would, by custom, come to them. More than likely he would bring a breath of intolerable excitement with him and be bewildered by their dullness. And it would be too great an effort to explain the reason. The glass showed, in fine longrange detail, a very old man indeed, his brown skin networked with lines, his scalp showing through the scattered white hairs that crossed it, his back bent, his scrawny arm requiring the support not of an automated walker but of a simple staff. His only visible garment was a long gray robe that brushed the insteps of feet aged nearly to translucency. Breathing with some effort, he leaned on his staff and gazed across the hall for a long moment, his eyes at least suggesting alertness and vivacity. During that time the voice of the machine that enclosed them all stated some simple facts about him. "The newcomer wishes to be known as Alexander. He is a human male of the genetic strain qBA. He is aged one thousand one hundred and sixty-four and his planet of origin is Earth. Of the Records in the current list held by human beings twenty-two per cent were established on -- or by citizens of -- Earth, more than any other single planet. But the last one hundred applications for new Records by citizens of Earth have all been adjudged unacceptable." At the startling figure of twenty-two per cent the four who were already present turned in unison to stare at Alexander. At the conclusion of the machine's remarks, they uttered simultaneous sighs of relief. Nothing -- nothing in the universe -- could conceivably be more galling than to assist at the Registration of someone else's Record, while having one's own rejected. There was a moment of renewed silence. At the end of it Alexander gathered his failing strength and began to walk. speak with the man who waited farthest from the door. This was a hulking fellow in a tight garb of dark green. His beard hung untrimmed to his waist and his fingernails were overgrown and chipped. In a thin voice and a polite manner the old man said, "As you have been told, I am Alexander and I come from Earth." The hulking man moved only his eyes. The slumped weight of his body remained inert on the folding metal chair that supported him. It was not until it became clear that the intrusive stranger was patient and did not plan to go away of his own immediate accord that he summoned enough energy to grunt a harsh response. "I'm Cridge, from Balkistan. Anything else you want to know or will you leave me in peace?" "Thank you," said Alexander sadly and moved to speak to the next in line. This was a woman, a very stout one, whose gross body matched the inflatable armchair under her, and who leaned one elbow on the side of the chair so that her fingers were conveniently located to pluck at her underlip -- brrup, brrup, brrup. She wore no clothing at all but nudity was customary on many worlds. Alexander addressed her in the same words and after a longdrawn-out sigh she consented to reply. "I'm Gailalu and I come from Ludgerworld. Welcome to the Registry. And now, if you don't mind, I'd like to go on watching my panel. I'm expecting a verdict any moment." Alexander inclined his head and moved on toward the third of those waiting -- again a man but this time one of middle age and medium build, with the contrast of dark skin, pale hair and a bodyharness of flexible gold that located his ancestry to within a few hundred parsecs. While on the verge of approaching this man's nullgravity couch and a third time uttering his introduction, Alexander checked, glancing toward the door. A man had appeared there, young and vigorous of stride, in gaudy yellow and blue, and at the sight of him the fourth person waiting -- a girl with a bright smile and a sweep of clear red hair -- had jumped up in delight and gone running to meet him. His eyes following the girl, Alexander spoke to the darkskinned, pale-haired man and received much the answer he had been expecting. "I'm Phraticor and I come from Loghious. You're from Earth, are you? Well, I wish you as much luck with your application as I'm having with mine -- I've been here three months already. Obviously it's taking a lot of time to process our Loghian data. But the chances are that when the breakthrough comes it'll be sudden -- so I'd better not waste time chatting right now. Later, maybe." And with that his mask of civility gave way to the same expression his companions wore. A lexander made to move on. But before he had covered the distance that separated him from the stool on which the girl had been keeping her watch, she had brought the newcomer to IF meet him, her arm linked with his. "Hugo, this is Alexander and he's from Earth -- can you imagine it?" she exclaimed. "The world we all started on thousands of centuries ago! I'm Doha, by the way," she added to Alexander. "And Hugo, of course, is my relief. He came for me early so we could have time together." She gave the arm she held an affectionate squeeze. Alexander looked at them for a long time. At last a smile crossed his face, so that one might have imagined his dry old skin crackling like ancient parchment. He said, "I see you are very happy with one another." Hugo nodded and gave an answering smile that turned his features from regular to handsome. "And you are from what world?" Alexander pursued. "Oh, from Coraline." Doha shrugged. She gave her words an embarrassed inflection. "A very new world -- you probably won't have heard of it. This is our first application to the Registry and we're terribly excited. Everyone seems to think we have a very good chance because it's taking so long to process our evidence. Usually the first time a new world sends a delegation here it's turned down right away. But we've been here over a month and they're still processing." "You mean it's still processing," Hugo corrected her gently. "This place isn't run by people -- it's all machines." "Slip of the tongue," Doha said with a grimace. "Oh, we're holding up Alexander from posting his evidence, aren't we? I'm sure you must be very eager to get on with it." She checked and a tiny frown drew her brows together. Uncertainly she added: "Are you the entire delegation from Earth, by the way? Or are there others to follow?" "Good point." Hugo nodded. "There are only five of us from Coraline but we're still very underpopulated. I know the Loghians sent sixty -- and I don't think I've managed to count the delegations from Ludgerworld and 'Balkistan." "I'm by myself," Alexander said. Doha gasped. "But aren't you going to find it terribly tiring -- having to watch the screens all the time on your own? Or have you brought enough equipment to let you stay here all the time? Even so -- " She broke off doubtfully. "You were perhaps going to say," Alexander supplemented, "that it will be a long and tiring wait nonetheless? Ah, there you're wrong, though I appreciate your concern for my well-being. You see, I shall not have to wait. I know that I'm going to set an incontestable Record." The ensuing silence was not surprised but stunned. It was broken by the sound of movement from behind Alexander. He turned to see that his three other listeners had stirred from their dull postures of waiting and were gazing at him with dismay. Phraticor, the nearest, responded first, jumping to his feet with a display of bluster. "You say you know you'll set a Record? Then you're mad. You need medication, sedation, psychotherapy. Yours is a delusion of grandeur." Hauling her ponderous mass to the floor, waddling toward Alexander with a furious scowl, the woman Gailalu chimed in to support Phraticor. "Yes -- yes. You have to submit your evidence to the machines. They compare your claim with all data they have in store. No one can claim to predict a Record." And, disturbed at last from his apathy, the hulking Cridge also strode over shouting, "You're mad! You have to be mad! If any man can say what's a Record -- and what's not -- there's no point in coming here, no point in waiting all these months and years for a verdict." "Do you want your verdict, then?" Alexander said and drew his scrawny body up with the help of his staff, so that sudden authority rang in his voice like a brazen bell. "What?" Taken aback, Cridge stumbletongued. Then he retorted, "Of course I want my verdict. Why else should I have sat here day by day for all these unendurable months?" "Because you found the waiting more endurable than the verdict," Alexander answered. "The circuits of the Registry work at the speed of light. The verdict on any application may be had between one heartbeat and the next." "What?" Hugo stepped forward. "You mean we didn't have to come here and waste all this Time -- you mean we could have just come and gone home again?" "Would you rather be home again?" Alexander countered. "Of course! Do you think it's any fun for Doha and me to be cooped here on this sterile artificial planet with the dreary company we have to keep -- always being told to go sit here in this horrible hall for hours of every day -- when we could be at home swimming and dancing and being happy together?" Beside him, in answer to an unspoken question from Alexander, Dolia gave a firm nod. "It is as I feared," Alexander said and the whole weight of his IF years seemed to settle on his shoulders in a moment, so that he had to take a grip on his staff with both hands. But the others had exchanged glances in the meantime and, with acid formality, Cridge had decided to live up to his declared pretensions. He said, "I defy you to prove your assertion, sir. I think you're lying -- and when I've shown that you are I think I shall have you expelled from the Registry. This place is the repository of the known achievements of intelligent life in this galaxy and as such it might well be termed sacred. It is not to be mocked." "Oh, for -- " Alexander ended his exclamation with a sound epitomizing disgust. "Have your verdict, then, before you rot into the floor." and raised his staff to tap on the nearest of the uncountable wall-panels that displayed verdicts concerning applications for a new Record. "What do the people of Balkistan think they've done that's new?" he demanded -- and his voice faded into a wheeze on the last word as though to suggest that the very concept of newness must be dead by now. "The people of Balkistan have reorganized their society so that novelty is illegal," said the automatic voice from the air. The wall-panel simultaneously displayed the words. "They claim that this is in itself unprecedented." "Have we gone that far?" Alexander whispered, while noting that all the other listeners -- even Doha and Hugo -- had relaxed perceptibly. Evidently they are claiming a different Record or Records. "And?" "This had already been done by the following species: the Zyphrians, the Homoclawk, the Madgerive, the -- " "Stop," Alexander said. And with reluctance added: "Dead species?" "All of them," replied the machine. He saw that Doha was turning pale and wondered whether she had insight into the terrible suspicion he hdjut heard made a certainty. But he had no time for speculation. Now the die was cast and he had to hurry. "Balkistan has its verdict," he told Cridge, "and could have had it within an hour of your arrival. Are you pleased with what you've heard?" "It must be a lie," Cridge said uncertainly and was interrupted by Gailalu. "Of course it's not a lie! Something as stupid and obvious as that was bound to have been done already. I'm prepared to hear the verdict on our achievement right away, if you can honestly make it come out of the machine." "You doubt me?" Alexander said. "No, not me but those who were faint of heart before you. Little by little, ten thousand years ago, people grew discouraged by the negative verdicts that kept coming out of the machine, one, ten, a hundred, a thousand. There is something missing from the air of this place -- without which no human being can survive." "You're crazy. We were told the place was -- " "I don't mean oxygen," said Alexander. "What I'm talking about is hope." And, not giving Gailalu time for a reply, he asked the machine to utter its verdict on the application from Ludgerworld. "The population of that planet have turned it inside out," reported the machine. "Now they live on its interior and the hot core is a tiny artificial sun." Hearing the words, Gailalu drew herself up proudly and sneered at the others. "There's an unprecedented feat for you!" she cried. "The Record in this respect is held by the Frotuglize," said the impersonal machine. "They turned the second planet of #CAvgridH inside out approximately thirty thousand years ago." "They, too, shut out the universe," said Alexander. "And went their private way to death. Well, Phraticor?" The dark man, with a glance at Gailalu, whose face had taken on the emotionless expression of someone who has survived an earthquake but lost in it both family and friends, said challengingly, "There's no need to ask the machines what we have done. We made a star -- yes! From the separate atoms of hydrogen drifting in nothingness we pulled together mass enough to make it glow, a new light in the pattern of the heavens!" Doha and Hugo, as one, drew in their breath in wonder, but Alexander shook his aged head. "Poor Phracticor," he said. "Poor people on an isolated world. Machine, tell them the truth and end their misery." "What misery?" barked Phraticor. But the machine had already begun to speak. "The majority of the Population I stars in the galaxy are now known to be the products of an unnamed race of approximately years ago, whose factory was responsible for clearing the volume between our galaxy and the Greater Magellanic Cloud of all hydroIF gen, totaling approximately -- " "Stop," Alexander directed and the machine fell silent. The face of Phraticor had turned gray. "But -- " Doha spoke after a terrible struggle with herself. "But I thought the Zyphrians -- " "Were the first race we have any knowledge of?" Alexander sighed. "No, alas, my dear. Only the first race whose achievements we have so far matched -- or rather, had matched. To outdo the Starmakers we should have to build a galaxy -- and the raw materials for that do not exist anywhere in the plenum." With a wry moue he added, "Anyway, where would you put it?" Recovering slowly from his shock, Hugo said, "In that case -- I think it best not to even mention our own petty little application. If the creation of a star turns out to be the pointless reenactment of some previous Record we might as well quit and go home." Doha nodded and they turned toward the door. "Wait." The order came from Cridge, whose despair had given way to rage on digesting the fact that his own world's boasted achievement was likewise the mere shadow of something long ago. "Not so fast. Are we 'to be cowed by this -- this intruder, this lunatic? Didn't you hear him say that he was certain of establishing a new Record? I want to know what the people of Earth can do that's so superior, so novel and so fantastic that it'll be accepted here." "Yes!" Gailalu cried. "Yes!" Phraticor agreed, marching threateningly close to the old man. away but he resisted and spoke over the girl's bright red casque of hair. "Sir, I think you owe us that, at least. If you do not prove what you claim we shall have no grounds to believe you on any score. I always understood that to secure a verdict from the Registry the applicant might have to wait for weeks, months, even years." "Fair," conceded Alexander. He repeated more softly, "Fair -- " He grew brisk, "Well, then, since doubtless it will be you who by chance are elected to convey news of this event to the rest of the galaxy -- and to do so you'll need all the data you can get -- I suggest that we begin in inquiring what the last Record was that was set by the people of Earth. Machine, enlighten my friends on that score, please." "The largest information-processing system in the galaxy," said the mechanical voice, "the Record Registry, was set up by the people of Earth approximately thirteen thousand two hundred years ago. No known previous and no subsequent installation of the kind outdoes it for (a) storage capacity, (b) speed of response, (c)-" "Stop," said Alexander. And, turning to Doha, added: "You have a question?" "Yes!" She was almost weeping and her nails were dug deep into her palms. "If it's supposed to be so fast, why have people had to come here and sit around, wait months for a verdict, come here day after day after day?" "Not because of the machine." Alexander sighed. "But because of their own reluctance to face the kind of truth that led us, the people of Earth, to create the Registry in the first place. You see, Earth is -- uh -- was a very old world. There had been men on it, naturally, who spoke and used tools and fire and re after a fashion intelligent, for perhaps as the dawn of the age of Space and the colonization of all your other planets. We had time to relax, sit back, meditate, hear the news, while you on Loghious and Balkistan and Coraline and all the other planets of other stars were busy getting on with your lives, taming strange environments, adapting to new foods, learning to love new mountains and new oceans. You do love your worlds, don't you?" He glanced at the others, who had grouped before him in a semicircle. Dolia finally answered him with a nod and a smile. "As I expected," Alexander muttered. "You from the youngest world find it easiest to reply. So I must ask your forgiveness for our disastrous mistake because there is no one else to ask it of and no one else to do the asking. "It seemed to us -- as we saw the people of Earth grow less enterprising, ambitious, adventurous; more complacent, contented, repetitious in their lives -- that something had to be done to jolt the species out of such a rut. This is what we did -- we created this Registry, where the achievements of every species that to our knowledge preceded us are recorded. It was intended to act as a perqnnial spur, as a creative force to, pose new goals and new ambitions for Mankind. We did not know of the Starmakers when we designed and built the Registry -- had we known, perhaps our decision would have been otherwise.   worked. As we had anticipated, men came from all over the galaxy to inform the machines of new accomplishments and the tidings spread rapidly IF when some great breakthrough was accomplished. To spur men on still further, we made sure that anything that was a copy of the work of other species was dismissed as such. But this was a terrible horror -- and, I confess, it stemmed from arrogance. What business had we -- who a mere fellows to suck the marrow from their bones -- to match attainments with races who lasted as many years in space alone, who -- as we belatedly discovered -- were capable of shaping the very galaxy we inhabit to suit their tastes? "You, friend from Loghious who built a star! Your feat was marvelous, fantastic, incredible. I salute you -- were it not that these old bones are stiff and slow, I'd go down on my knees to kiss your sandal strap! And you from Ludgerworld who turned it inside out, who made your own small sun to suit your needs -- you, too, I admire and salute, for you saw a peak of accomplishment and with single-minded determination scaled it!" Now the old man's voice was ringing so loudly it could almost call echoes from the far-distant walls of the great hall. He had forgotten his age and the prop of his staff in his excess of pride at the successes of the species he belonged to. "From you and your people, Cridge, I can, however, do no more than beg forgiveness. We unwittingly sent you down the blind alley in which you became lost -- and not only you but everyone who has visited this hall for the past ten millennia." Alexander's staff made a contemptuous jab at the red-glowing figures on the wall. "We turned what should have been a challenge into a foregone conclusion. It has been believed for thousands of years that anyone who came here to apply for the listing of a Record was bound to have it rejected -- and so the custom has grown up of not asking for the verdict until all patience has run out, until the weight of boredom and desperation becomes intolerable. Once hundreds of planets every year sent eager delegations to the Registry -- and now, in this hall that could hold a thousand, I find only you people waiting. Oh, it's sad, it's sad... "So, as a result, on thousands of human worlds life grows drab, pointless, monotonous. For everything that one can think of to do has already been done and the unquestionable authority of the Record Registry says it's been done. And in the end..." He drew a deep breath and clutched his staff tightly to him. "Yes! In the end. "Friends, I know you hate me. Why should you not? I come here, I tell you why your hoped-for Records are a waste of time. I claim to be about to register a Record of my own -- certainly you must hate me. I see you shake your head, Doha, and I'm grateful. But that's because you're young, and you have your man beside you -- and you've not yet been disappointed often enough to become cynical about those good things which are, after all, the real prizes of life. I understand and respect, I even accept, your detestation. I shall make it worse. I shall say that I am about to post two Records -- and that in itself will be a third. Machine! Has any delegation from any planet registered two Records on a single visit?" "No," said the voice from the air. "I thought not. Well, then, let me deal with the first. Machine, what is the planet which has been longest inhabited by mankind and is now uninhabited?" "The planet Earth," said the machine. T HE silence this time was terrible -- a silence like the implacable noiselessness between the galaxies. At last Hugo said faintly, "Earth is -- " "Earth is empty," said Alexander. "The reason for that is what you've witnessed here. You, Cridge. Tell us what went on in your mind while you were sitting here waiting for the verdict." "I -- " The hulking man had to swallow. "I suppose I thought about what we would do to exceed our own Record -- if one were granted to us -- and I couldn't think of anything." "And to postpone your confrontation with that terrifying knowledge, the realization that you had nothing left to work for, no ambition, no plans, hopes, schemes, you waited here. You sat and stared at a blank wall panel and put off the moment of truth. Am I not right?" Cridge nodded. "You, too, Doha, and your man Hugo -- you'd have suffered that fate," Alexander sighed. "Already, by accepting the idea that one must wait for the machines instead of coming right out and asking for their verdict, you'd taken the first step toward catastrophe. I wouldn't wish that doom on you, young, lively, vital -- it was dreadful enough seeing it overtake the tired, bone-weary folk of Earth. First one wondered: why have children since their lives will be a mere repetition of other lives? Then it was: why marry, others have already done the same? And at last it was: why live? IF "I alone survive to register my Records. You already know the third one. Before naming my first, I must give you instructions. I must tell you to go and rouse your companions. Order them to go back aboard their ships and to leave the Registry. And tell them not to go home at once -- but to to warn other ships not to approach closer than that." "What?" Cridge's normal hectoring manner seemed to be returning by the second now that he was free of the weight of hopelessness that pervaded the Registry. "Why must we keep everyone else away? For all we know a new Record could be established by the next visitors!" "Your thinking belongs to the past," Alexander said sadly, raising his staff before his face. He gave the ends a twist and lowered it again. "My first Record has been iet. The machines here are very perceptive -- why don't you ask them just what that Record is? You know, don't you?" .he asked the air. "The person who wishes to be known as Alexander," said the machine, "is the first visitor who ever brought to the Registry without being detected a bomb of sufficient power to destroy it." Cridge, Gailalu and Phraticor exclaimed in horror and instantly took to their heels. Hugo would have done the same but Dolia clung to him and made him wait. She asked, "Is it true?" Her voice trembled. "Quite true." Alexander sat down on her stool and with one thin hand caressed the staff absently. "I should hurry if I were you. You have only an hour to get away." "But you -- " "I have nothing to get away for." Alexander shrugged. "A thousand years has been enough for me." "Dolia, come on," Hugo cried. "He's crazy -- dangerous, too." "No he's not crazy," Dolia said. "Just sad. Will there be another Registry?" Alexander promised. "By then we should have enough Records of our own. For the time being, though, isn't it better to do what one wants to do -- without worrying about whether or not it's already been! done?" "I'm young enough to remember what it was like the first time I -- " Dolia checked, glanced at Hugo and colored. "Well, the first time, anyway." "In that case," Alexander said, "you are unusually wise. Remember that to be wise is a very precious thing." "I'll try," she whispered. She put out her hand uncertainly, ( Please turn to page #) i Hilton Inn, San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests of Honor: Miriam Allen de Ford and E. Hoffman Price. Fan Guest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: # now, # after January #st, # at the door. For information: Quinn Yarbro, # Columsa ##, Berkeley, California #.  Andrews Hotel, Minneapolis. For information: Jim Young, # Ulysses Street, N.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota #.  Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: #. For information and registration: Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York #.  California. Guest of Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest of Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California #I . AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. All convention functions will be held at the Staadthalle in Heidelberg; members of the convention will find accommodations in hotels in town. The accent of this con will be an international one, with fans and pros coming from all over the world. Guests-of Tubb (England) and Dr. Herbert W. Franke (Germany). Toastmaster: Lester del Rey. Memberships: # (supporting membership, receive all progress reports), # (attending); after December #, #. #. For Germany. Make all checks payable to Mrs. Molly Auler. IF IN Glenn Chang, at J# , isJalre National Merit Fin High School, Hawaii, he entered Northwestern University this fall -- on a scholarship -- to major in chemistry. Already a veteran of survival by his own admission, Glenn has written -- for his IF First -- a story of survival. And creation. both realized the implications. "Dissolution," he said. "Yes," she replied. They looked into each other's eyes. "I do not want this." He stated it flatly. "Nor I," she breathed quickly. "Oh, my love, can't we go on even for a little while longer?" He shook his head. "No, impossible. I am old and the law must be obeyed." oqfcj.n "We are both old." Her tone was dull and resigned. He leaned forward and clasped her hands tightly in his. "Yes, that is true. We are old. But we have lived -- and we have lived together. And I -- I remember." He looked deep into her eyes and saw longing there. "I remember when I first saw you and realized that I loved you. I remember the quiet walks we took, the children's games we played, all the joys and sorrows we shared. I know the beauty of your soul, the gentleness and the deep sensitivity of your manner. That is the essence of you, my darling, that I have loved all these long ages of existence." "And I love you, too," she said tremblingly, eyes bright. For a space the two bowed figures sat facing each other, seemingly oblivious of their fate -- to have their ancient, decrepit bodies Dissolved, the chemicals and particles transformed into pure energy, their existence snuffed out. The two last humans in the universe. Suddenly his head snapped up. She looked at him, startled, and then, noting his expression, hopefully. "We cannot ask the Machine for continuance," he began, "for our ruler's word is irreversible. Yet possibly -- yes -- I believe I have thought of another way -- " He took her hands again and rose to his feet. "Our physical selves are not important. They are only so much organic material that dies and regenerates again and again until it is worn out -- it has no soul. Let the Dissolution process take it and break it down into atomic components -- we do not need it. We can find an alternate to flesh, a body not of organic compounds which wear out so quickly. We can go to the machine and petition for rebirth," he finished excitedly. "Oh, yes!" And so they went before the Machine -- the vast, mile-square electronic complex that was their god -- and pleaded their case. Their request was irregular, though not the first of its kind. "I can grant you no organic hosts," the Machine said. "My postulate must remain unchanged, even though you may be the last survivors of your race." "We know that," he said. "We merely ask that you grant us a receptacle -- just so we may still exist and retain sentience." The Machine paused as if in thought. They waited silently. Finally, the Machine spoke. "I will do it," it said. "You will have your rebirth. You will become parts of me, each of you controlling a component computer section. You will have no organic bodies but metal-and-integratedcircuit hosts. End of transmittal." "Thank you, Machine," they said humbly. reached out for each other. "I cannot feel you! I have no hands!" she cried -- yet she did not cry aloud though he received her message. "Nor can I feel you." She received his thoughts in the same manner that he received hers -- on IF the swift wings of quark energy. "No arms, no legs -- I have no body!" she radiated. The force of her panic pounded at his mind. "No eyes to see you, ears to hear you, lips to kiss you -- " "They are only tools of your senses. You can feel me but not that way. This way -- " And his mind reached out, touched hers gently with hesitant, probing tendrils. She felt him and reached out likewise. Her touch was soft, gentle, wondering. "It is strange," she emanated. "My physical senses are gone but I can feel you, touch you, even though we are trapped in these metal prisons. I can sense your soul, your strength, your firmness of character. For the first time, I can really feel you" "Which is enough," he said. A ND so they existed, doing their part of the work for the Machine, with only free moments now and then to communicate with each other. But at least they were permitted this small privilege and they were content. Yet Time is unstoppable and brings with it decay and change. The millennia came and went with amazing speed. Even the Machine was not immortal. So the year came when they knew that the Machine was running down -- perhaps even dying -- and would soon be gone and with it would go their own existence. Nothing could be done. They could only take comfort in each other's mind-touch. Reality often encounters strange accidents -- in this case a nearby star was going nova. The cataclysmic nature of its death let loose strange and destructive forces -- these enveloped the surrounding area in a holocaust of heat and hard radiation. All matter was vioquanta of hard radiation and energy, including the metal-and-circuitry substance of the Machine -- save the two life-essences that had been trapped in its immobile metal body for eons. "What happened?" she asked. "A miracle. We are free. The nova has somehow pried us loose from the Machine and now we are pure energy." His life-essence twisted and darted in space joyously, easily and with the speed of thought skirting the nova-caused scenes of destruction. "Come," he radiated to her. "Use your powers. We are free -- free to do anything." She joined him and the two tumbled and cartwheeled among miles in mere minutes. "Oh, my love!" Her message held cosmic laughter. "We have succeeded beyond our wildest hopes! We shall be together forever!" "Yes," he replied, coming back to her side. "We shall be immortal -- an undying monument to our love." But their joy was short-lived, for as they traveled through the cosmos they found no sign of life. The entire universe was barren of any other living things. A terrible loneliness possessed the two lovers. And even as they realized this, they noted something else. Everywhere they went they passed dead stars, lifeless planets wandering aimlessly in deep space, entire galaxies glowing with the radiation of their death-throes. Watching all this, seeing that their cosmos was crumbling around them, it was plain to them what was happening. The universe was dying. He drew her attention to the stars. "Look, already it begins to contract." And, indeed, the very fabric of space-time was pulling closer together -- the universe was collapsing upon itself. "Is there nothing we can do?" shp pleaded. His answer was negative. "Even we cannot halt its death." Yet an idea began to dawn on him. "But," he said excitedly, "perhaps we can survive oblivion by transferring ourselves somehow to the next universe, one yet to be born. Yes, we can do it, for sure." "How?" "Maybe like this." Hesitantly, fine lines of coruscating energy began forming in the area surrounding them. As she watched, wondering, the lines thickened, grew more profuse, became almost solid. "There -- and there. Ah, like that." The energy net became a wall around them. "Do as I do and make it as strong as possible. It will protect us against the final holocaust." When they had finished, the energy net was like a huge cocoon completely enveloping them. He examined it, satisfied. "Yes, it is good. We shall lie dormant here and perhaps -- " he paused. "Perhaps we may survive the final death and the violent reprehensive, they cut off their consciousnesses and waited. The universe contracted japidly until all remaining matter was clustered so close together that tremendous mutual gravitational forces induced great collisions, giving rise to energies that initiated new collisions. The chain reaction was so devastating that every bit of matter was transformed into free energy and the cosmic egg lay there, seething with rampant energy -- rampant except for a strange energy cyst that had somehow resisted the tendency toward absolute entropy. IF Then rebirth began. With another violent upheaval the compact mass began to expand -- and with expansion, energy transformed into elementary particles -- matter -- and clumped and coagulated into shapeless masses. The seething proto-universe gradually cooled. Galaxies of dust formed, then stars, then, molten and primeval, the planets. And the energy cyst opened. Consciousness returned. He looked out and saw the new universe. "We did it." She saw, too. "Yes," she said unbelievingly. "We live!" He wanted to fly, to cavort in triumph -- but he could not. In his dormancy he had offered much of his power to buffering the energy cyst and so had she. The two survived -- but with only a small fraction of their former capabilities. "I am weak," she said. Indeed, her emanations were fluctuating and hard to read. He felt the same way. They drifted together, each helping the other. "We cannot exist long like this," he said. "Our powers are ebbing steadily. And if each transferral to a new universe is so taxing: -- I am not sure I would like to continue after this one is gone." "But we have love still," she said hopefully. "Yes, we have our love." Suddenly he guided her to a bright, hot star, its newly formed planets just beginning to orbit. "A monument, then, to our love," he declared. "We return to matter, from whence we came." Her aura seemed to brighten. "Yes, I see what you mean!" "I will be this star," he said and his life-essence diffused into the ball of plasma and gas. "And I will be this planet," she stated, doing the same to one of the molten satellites. They sucked up quarks and quintessences of energy. "Oh, I feel stronger already," she exclaimed. "I, too." The sun seemed to burn brighter. "You alone, of all these planets, will receive my blessing. On you will I make life flourish as a symbol of my love for you." "Then I will return that love and bloom rampant with life. Our monument will live for as long as this universe endures." "And that," he said, "is enough." A ND when the life-forms gained sentience .they marveled at the vast profusion of life on their world. Looking up at their star, they paid homage to the power that had bestowed its blessing on them alone and called it Sol. And his mate -- their mother-planet -- they called Terra.  most impossible to find a book by an unknown writer in the fields of science fiction or fantasy. The author either had already established himself with shorter works or his novel had been serialized in the magazines long before it appeared in book form. This no longer holds true. From even a hasty scanning of the shelves, it is obvious that a great many writers today are breaking into print initially in books. Delaney and LeGuin built their reputations outside the magazines and many more current examples exist. It is still a happy occasion when a first appearance represents both good writing and a gift for storytelling, however. The Warlock in Spite oj Himself , by Christopher Stasheff (Ace, #c) probably has the year's worst title and it is the work of a writer unknown at least to me. He also, unforgivably, combines science fiction and outright fantasy in the same story. On top of that, the publishers make the book seem one of those repulsively mechanical attempts at humor in a singularly unappealing blurb. Nevertheless, this rather fat book is a cracking good tale and a well-integrated story, told with a smooth command of the language. After the first few pages even the humor quiets down to a gently effective sense of fun. The story takes place on Gramarye, a world colonized and then lost to the records. But apparently this planet was settled by rich and eccentric members of the Society for Creative Anachronism who were determined to recreate feudalism in all its aspects. Rodney and Fess -- an epileptic robot horse -- are sent to Gramarye to bring some measure of democratic government into its medievalism. They soon find evidence that other forces are tinkering behind the scenes, trying to create either absolute dictatorships or total anarchy. The young queen is wilfully busy alienating all her lordly friends by experimenting with a feudal welfare state. Rodney naturally winds up in the middle of things. His general attitude is properly science-fictional, as are many of the trappings. Even such things as time machines don't phase him and his wizardry is based solidly on technical tricks. But' at least half of Gramarye works by magic. There are witches galore and elves all over the landscape, all mixed up in the government. There is even a group of fine, upstanding ghosts who dutifully haunt an ancestral castle. And Rodney is recognized by all as a genuine warlock. Maybe he is, despite his protests. In the end most of the magic elements become integrated into the science framework. But it isn't one of the horrible "logical" endings that so often ruin science fantasy. The Little People are far more than mutations and the ghosts remain honest ghosts. The mixture should not work at all -- but somehow everything comes together into a good and satisfying adventure. The story is not a major one or particularly significant but it's more fun to read than anything I've seen by a new writer in much too long a time. There's room here for a sequel, since Rodney really should be proved an authentic warlock eventually. I hope Stasheff is working on it. M ichael crichton was also unknown before his book The Andromeda Strain (Alfred A. Knopf, #). And though his book is currently on the bestseller list and has drawn rave reviews as science fiction all over the country, I rather wish he'd stayed unrecognized. This is just the sort of thing that the general reader will take as science fiction. It has a future setting, a threat to the world, lots of talk of science and innumerable tricks, all too clever. It labors desperately to let the reader know the writer is aware of every little detail. It has computer pictures and even a bibliography of reference works from its future time. And to me it's about as convincing as pink cheese as the basic Lunar surface. The initial situation isn't bad, though we've all seen it before. A satellite set to probe near space brings back a sample of something from a few hundred miles up. That sample turns out to be, apparently, a deadly plague from space. The men who locate the thing immediately die and investigators find a whole village where death seems to have come almost instantaneously. There are, however, two puzzling survivors -- a prying infant and a drink-sodden old man. Four doctors are chosen to find the nature and cure for this danger. (They all have names and carefully worked out characters but I find almost nothing that sticks in my memory about them since they never quite came to life.) With the survivors and samples, they are sealed into a great underground laboratory that has already been constructed to meet the danger of plague from space. AH the scenes you might expect are there. Every theory turns out to be wrong, of course. And there's even a faulty computer and an atomic power pile set to blow up and wipe them cfut when the emergency button is pressed. Naturally it gets pressed and the people have to run about until the last second to turn it off. (Obviously, however, they must have succeeded for their names to be mentioned in the bibliography. Some of the too-conscious work of making this all "real" backfires here.) The chief plotting trouble, however, comes in the nature of the plague. It's impossible to accept long before the story ends. Apparently Crichton felt that science-fiction touches should be used with a shotgun and without aiming. We're told that this plague acts as a blood disease. Then we find it's a crazy crystal that needs nothing from the blood it can't get from the air. We learn next that it somehow works by "atomic fusion" -- which is interesting indeed, since it seemingly produces no great amount of energy. And about then the plague seems to realize that with all that gadgetry it has no need to infect humans in its development, so it stops infecting them and begins to infect machines! Anyhow, it only worked for people who had a normal hydrogenion or pH reading; no reason we can see, it just worked that way. In the end, the whole intent of the book becomes anti-sf. The plague killed off perhaps a hundred people -- one village and a few others. It then began mutating into something harmless. But somehow the result of this unmanned flight accident proves conclusively to the nation and the scientific community that all IF manned (sic!) flight into space must be discontinued because of danger. If you're looking for social significance the book has a message in its final chapter. That message . can best be summed up as: "Man wasn't meant to... T HE theme of danger to Earth from space aliens is also covered in The Pollinators of Eden, by John Boyd (Weybright  Talley, #) -- but with a completely different approach. Here the basic idea is made convincing by some rather sharp characterization and a much higher level of writing. Boyd is still a new writer but hardly an unrecognized one -- this is his second book. His first won excellent reviews. The basic situation here is developed directly. The material is familiar but its handling is fresh and thp, developments of the basic idea are generally good. Freda Caron is a botanist. Her fiance sends her some seeds and two "tulips" from the newly discovered planet of Flora, where flowers have filled most of the ecological niches. The tulips are not only singularly beautiful -- they emit sounds and even mimic words. The big problem is that nobody can figure how they pollinate. She sets about discovering this in collaboration with a young man who had been with her fiance, Paul. Hal, their assistant, somewhat sloppy in his methods. Through these people's eyes, we see a step-by-step development of the danger from the flowers. The tulips take over, adapt hornets to pollinate themselves and begin to exert a strange sexual influence on Freda. And they refuse to be restrained. Every effort to limit their spread seems to be doomed. Hal by supersonics. Freda is faced with other difficulties. Her career at her university is being undermined by academic politics and she is forced to testify with disastrous results on the national political scene. Her own character is changing during this time, increasing the tension. Thr author does not, however, merely tell another story of the plants that conquer a world. The menace is real but solutions are possible. The plants can be subdued. The factors in Freda's personal life are less easy to cope with. All this builds up nicely through more than eighty percent of the novel. Then everything changes. Freda manages to get herself sent to Flora to join Paul in his Eden island where he is studying some extraordinary orchids. And the final twenty percent of the book manages to undo almost everything that the author has developed to that point. Every character undergoes a sudden change. Paul, portrayed as a puritanical intellectual, turns out to be a sloppy hedonist, easily dominated by his plants. Freda's sexual problems vanish immediately as she imitates her fiance. Dead Hal is recast into a man capable only of claiming credit for another's work. And when Freda is sent back to Earth the story development manages to deteriorate even further. From now on, she has one simple solution to every problem -- she reads men's minds and satisfies their bodies, gaining her goals with all the ingenuity of a female turtle. On page #, this was a darned fine book. By #, it had gone pretty much to pieces, with most of what had gone before destroyed. The final twenty-two pages simply grind along somehow to an ending that means nothing emotionally (except for minor shock value) to anyone but Freda -- if she has any real emotions left by this time. T HE schizoid story seems to be a rather standard trap into which many beginning writers fall after their first success. (The first book usually has to be more traditionally organized to sell at all, and writers with any talent seem to know this by instinct.) It usually has a sort of set pattern, known by some editors as the "steak and whipped cream" story. The first part will be a sort of wish-dream fluff, filled mostly with yearning and hot air. I've heard a lot of theories about why this is so. My own guess is that the writer has some grandiose idea dear to his heart but one he never could quite turn into a story. Now, flushed with initial success, he digs it out and insists on writing it. It won't really work by itself, so he goes back to his skill to construct a story before it. Then he tries a "daring" or "experimental" trick of breaking from that over to the thing he wanted to write with total lack of critical judgment all along. The pattern is usually the same. Aside from the sudden break in the plot, there will be a radical change of character. This has to be, since the real characters of his hard section would not fit with the nebulous grandeur or emotional wallowing of the second. And the second part is usually an emotional dream where every wish is gratified or an intellectual one where vast ideas are displayed. A fully developed writer would spot the danger in his idea and never write it. But such self-analysis comes to many only after long IF practice and a spate of well-argued rejections. We can understand the writers, perhaps. But there is more difficulty in seeing why an editor lets his authors get away with such stuff. When he lets something as obvious as the "steak and whipped cream" story get by, he is neither protecting his readers nor helping his writers to develop. There was enough material in Boyd's first eighty percent to justify a complete reexamination. Almost certainly, Freda could have met her problems on Earth by simply facing them. Or the affair on Flora might have been developed into a novel. As it is, the reader has been robbed of two stories. fers from some of the same trouble, though to a lesser extent. And that's something I regret very deeply. I feel that Shaw is potentially one of the finest of the new writers who are beginning to emerge. His short fiction has been excellent and his first novel from Ace presented a writer in full control of his abilities.  The Palace of Eternity , by Bob Shaw (Ace Special, #c) is even better for much of its length. It has good characters, good background and a quite interesting situation featuring aliens. The writing is sharp, the action deft. Tavenor has been orphaned by a seemingly senseless alien raid and has spent most of his life in the military, fighting to avenge his parents' death. But now he has retired and moved to Mnemosyne, a planet that seems to have attracted all the artists and poets. For some reason inspiration flows there as nowhere else. Suddenly Tavenor finds that his Elysium has not only beeir embroiled in the Earth-alien war but Mnemosyne is now the very center of that war. Completely understanding both sides, he watches the military bureaucracy trample down the character of this unusal planet. He's almost alone in this understanding, save for a few rebels whom he recognizes as gallant but futile visionaries. His only real contact is an odd, fey girl-child of three years -- a serious tot with a strange touch that heals. A series of events forces Tavenor to help the rebels. His position as a professional soldier of thirty years' experience lighting the aliens offers them their only chance to survive. Yet he cannot deny the need for the military forces, particularly since it is obvious to him that men are losing the war and that Mnemosyne may soon feel Good. It's a complex story, just moving forward toward its meaning, toward a resolution for the planet, the human race -- and for Tavenor. Then we get a sudden jarring development that's like an ice cube down the back. Tavenor is taken out of the action. I read on, hoping that this meant Shaw had something big enough in mind to dare a trick that only seemed outrageous. But I waS'Wrong. The steak is done and from that point -- about two-thirds of the way through the book -- there is only a spate of uncritically presented "big ideas" filled with hokum. We're given immortal souls that are being killed by men. (What these souls really do with all their time is left unstated. Look, they're souls, dig? Ain't that a big enough idea? Souls don't need development, characterization, purpose beyond survival, all that guff. This is deep philosophy, man! Like love.) Tavenor gets his own soul planted in his infant son. And all the fun begins. Once a strong and thoughtful man, he now becomes a human jellyfish. The mother, fine enough to attract Tavenor in his original form, is now a lump -- literally, almost. The little girl grows up in the background but is abruptly a selfish and badly spoiled normal kid. Tavenor no longer acts. He has things happen to him, while he vaguely feels unhappy. He and the now-grown girl are caught by the horrible aliens. Okay, now we get the motivation for the strange actions of the aliens? We do not! They were great as distant menaces but they're pretty silly when we meet them in their cages! All the toughness and reality developed through most of the story are gone. When we finally find that our girl is a new kind of man, the savior of mankind and soulkind, the discovery is convincing as learning the new reality about a rather nasty and selfish Little Nell! After a fine beginning, it's hard to take a conclusion that is emptily grandiose. And for most readers, I suspect the few rewards won't make it worth while to try to take it. A fairly bad book -- as a totality -- doesn't bother me much. But the loss of the story Shaw could have made from the first twothirds is a tragedy.  IF Willy Ley OF T HE only thing classical writers had to say about coal was that it emitted a bad smell when burning and that it was inferior to "true coal" -- meaning charcoal. Still, the classical w # ord for coal -- carbo -- was used to designate the geological period during which most coal originated. (Lignite, also called "brown coal," originated much more recently, during the Tertiary period.) The Carboniferous Era Twentieth century man has the tendency to ask what people thought about this or that at a certain time in history. The answer is that often they did not think. In our particular case nobody wondered about the nature of coal -- it was something you found in certain places just as you found iron ore or copper ore in others. The first man who speculated on the nature of coal was that French all-around genius, the Count de Buffon, who lived from # to #. Coal, he wrote, was the result of the luxuriant forests that grew when the continents were first formed. When the trees died of old age and collapsed they either decayed on the spot or were carried by river floods to the sea where they finally came to rest in a quiet bay. And there they became coal. To strengthen the picture Buffon mentioned travel reports. He was director of the Jardin du Roy (the King's garden -- or botanical garden in our terminology) and saw many travelers' written accounts of their journeys. "The number of trees which a river like the Mississippi floats to the sea is incredible -- at times the number of floating trees is such that navigation on the river is rendered impossible. It is the same with the Amazon river and the majority of other rivers in thinly settled countries... Travelers in such forests (in Guiana) pick the spot where they intend to spend the night by the health of the nearby trees so that they might not be killed in their sleep by a falling tree." The fact that many coal mines feature a number of coal seams separated by stone seemed to go well with Buffon's idea. The coal seam was plant matter scooped up and brought to the sea by a river's spring flood. The stone was the condensed result of the sand, mud and clay carried by the same river during the rest of the year. The theory worked out so neatly that nearly a century passed before its major error was recognized -- namely, the water transport of the vegetable matter. Evidence grew that the coal seam was where the forest had flourished; large rootlike fossils (called stigmaria) were found and occasionally a whole tree trunk that had turned to stone got in the way of miners who hacked away at the coal seam. The important point was that these trunks did not lie across a seam but stood upright. Naturally scientists wanted to know what plants had gone into the making of coal. There were two ways of finding out. One was to look for recognizable fossils -- the other was a microscope examination. Both courses of investigation strangely enough, were difficult, though for different reasons. Fossils simply were rare -- only occasionally did a fossil leafprint turn up and always in the stone layers that separated the coal seams. The ones that were found usually looked like fronds of large ferns. Microscopic examination suffered from coal's blackness. In the last decade of the nineteenth century, all microscopes required light shining through the specimen. The specimen was mounted on a thin piece of glass, about ## of an inch wide and # inches long and placed under the microscope. A mirror below it sent natural or artificial light through it into the tube. Coal, no matter how thin the specimen, simply blocked the light. Could one bleach coal? It could be done only by using low-strength nitric acid. The process entailed an element of risk. An organic substance bleached by nitric acid becomes an explosive. The danger could, however, be minimized by gentle handling of the slides and by avoiding open flames in the room. IF M icroscopic examination showed clearly that the coal consisted of the cells of plants. Moreover, a botanist could tell what kinds of plants. All the cells that could be identified were cells of what was then called "diversified cryptogams." The modern botanical name of this group is pteridophyta. It included all ferns, club mosses ( Lycopodium , and no matter what the popular name says they are not mosses), and scouring rushes, also known as horsetails ( Equisetum ). Except for the ferns which still are trees in the tropics, these plants now grow small. But during the Carboniferous period they formed enormous forests with four main types of trees. One type was tree ferns; two others, Lepidodendron and Sigillaria were club mosses while the fourth, Catamites, was a horsetail. The name Lepidodendron was constructed by combining the Greek words lepidotos (scaly) and dendron (tree) because its trunk looked as if it were covered with scales. The trunk of Sigillaria looks as if somebody had stamped his seal on every available square inch of the trunk. Artists who painted scenes showing a coal forest -- and there are many such paintings -- instinctively arranged the various kinds of trees in clusters, a bunch of Catamites at the left, a group of tree ferns background center and a copse of Sigillarias to the right. In all probability they were right. Plants have a tendency to cluster together and exclude other species in a given and usually small area. A man of our time who has an eye for trees and could walk around a coal forest (high rubber boots are recommended) would soon be able to tell the different types at a glance. Catamites would differ from current horsetails mainly by their size -- they grew fifty feet tall. Tree ferns would pose no recognition problem. The Lepidodendrons could be recognized immediately because they were old-fashioned in the evolutionary sense -- they formed neither twigs nor branches as we use these term. Like one of the trees of that old Devonian forest (called the Naples Tree, because it was found near Naples, N. Y.) the Lepidodendrons simply forked. First the trunk divided, then the two prongs -- and so on until death or infinity. The Sigillarias , on the other hand, thrust a straight trunk up to one hundred feet, with a maximum diameter of six feet and a bundle of sword-shaped leaves on top. The seal-like impressions on the trunk are the marks where leaves grew when the tree was younger. One of the most interesting trees belonged to the fern group but only a botanist might recognize it. Smallish, it bore nutlike seeds at the tips of its leaves. All living ferns, including the tropical tree ferns of today, bear spores. The carboniferous seed ferns (there were several) formed a separate botanical order that has been named Cycadofilicales to indicate that they must have led to the seed-bearing cycad trees. Cycad trees are still with us, though they are not common. But the seed ferns became extinct soon after the end of the Carboniferous period. A variety of detached fossil seeds have been found but it is not always known which trees bore them. They cannot be pigeonholed as fern seeds because we know of a seed-bearing tree that was not a fern. Its name is Cardaites, a slender tree often a hundred feet tall with dagger-shaped leaves twelve to fifteen inches long. It bore small winged seeds and it was clearly an early member of the order of gymnosperms ("naked seeds") which at present is mainly represented by the pine trees. Do we know anything about carboniferous plants that were not trees? We know of some. Of course there were many small ferns of the size we are most familiar with. Some ferns of the period were climbing types that used the bigger trees for support. Then there was an interesting plant named Sphen ophyllum that grew to a height of about two feet. If it grew now no layman would pay much attention to it because it would look perfectly natural in a wet area. It was shaped -- though the two plants are totally unrelated -- like today's goosegrass, Galium apar ine to the botanist. In Sphenophyl lum a dozen or so vertical stems grew from a common root. The leaves made whorls around the stems -- six, nine, or twelve usually leaves forming a whorl. Between twenty and forty whorls grew per stem, depending on its length. Most of what we would call underbrush in the carboniferous forests consisted of Sphenophyllum. The animals of these forests included our first fliers -- dragonflies in shape and by relationship -- but they had wingspreads of up to twenty-eight inches. In some forests they had yard-long but thin centipedes for company -- remains of them came to light only in recent years in West German coal mines. Arachnids were present, too, both scorpions and spiders. They were not gigantic forms and the scorpions may still at that time have been water-breathing, a fact recently established for their Devonian ancestors. Three-inch cockroaches crawled over fallen tree trunks. In the waters of the Carboniferous period lurked the first fourlegged vertebrates known. They were long-tailed amphibians with five toes on their hindfeet and four toes on their front feet. They were IF not large, averaging four to six feet in length in their early forms, though by the end of the Carboniferous period some attained lengths of eight and nine feet. The general shape of one of them (Diplovertebron) reminds one of a big fish with four legs and a long mouth full of teeth. Because of the construction of their skulls the name of the whole group is Stegocephalia or "roof skulls' One geological period later they were to give rise to the reptiles which, in turn, would produce the mammals and finally the birds. The Carboniferous forests were swampy lowlands covered by generations of growth. Trees fell into swamp water which, being virtually devoid of oxygen, prevented rotting. It is easy to visualize the build-up of a thick layer of plant matter under these circumstances. A river that changed course after especially heavy rains flooded the whole forest, bringing with it a cover of mud and sand. After the flood had run off, the original forest was drowned, dead and buried. But the mud-and-sand cover was not infertile -- in time a new forest would grow on top of it, making a second coal seam. One site in Silesia showed clearly that such cycles had taken place there twentyseven times. But a time came when the plants that formed the coal forest would not grow again. In some places a topographical change might have caused such an area to become too dry for a coal forest -- but the Carboniferous period as a whole seems to have ended because the climate grew too cold for its plants. And the Permian period began. -- say # years ago -- geologists ran into a problem. The collision was first hinted at in a relatively harmless manner. Somewhere in South Africa, not too far from Cape Town, glacier scrapes had been found in rocks dating from the Permian period. Glacier scrapes, in case anybody wonders about the meaning of the term, are scratches in rock caused by the slow motion of a glacier which has stones embedded in it. The discovery did not disturb anybody's sleep. It simply indicated that the site of the scratches must have been in the path of a glacier which had come from a nearby mountain range. Soon after a similar discovery was made elsewhere in South Africa. Another one was reported from India. Then the Russians began to talk of signs of a cold period in their territory. Logically enough, their findings centered in the District of Perm, which had furnished the name for the period. Everyone, of course, knew about the glacial period that had preceded our own -- was it possible that there had been one like it much earlier in geological history? Astronomers and those scientists especially interested in our sun were most doubtful. Their concern was the source of the energy the sun radiated into space every second of every day. The only large-scale source of energy anyone could think of at the time was the heat produced by contraction of the sun under its own weight. But if this were the case the sun should once have been hotter then than it is now -- so how could there have been an early glaciation? At this point the Swedish chemist Svante Arrhenius (#-#) appeared on the scene with a new idea. It did not matter so much how much heat was received from the sun -- what mattered was how much of that heat could be retained by the earth. It is obvious that dense clouds and especially areas covered with freshly fallen snow will reflect sunlight back into space. Dark ground will absorb the sunlight but reradiate it as infrared (heat) which can escape into space as easily as visible light unless stopped by something in the atmosphere. That something, Arrhenius stated, is carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide absorbs the infrared, thereby warming the atmosphere. Ergo, the temperature of the atmosphere would depend on its carbon dioxide content. The producers of carbon dioxide are fires of any kind, especially volcanic ones. The main consumers are certain chemical processes that go under the overall name of carbonization -- carbonatization to purists. Plants also consume carbon dioxide as long as the sun is shining (they don't at night) and the size and thickness of the coal seams show how much carbon dioxide was consumed by the plants durcarboniferous luxuriance. Unless the volcanoes were very active at the same time, the vegetation itself must have impoverished the air as far as carbon dioxide is concerned. During the same period the oxygen content of the atmosphere must have increased considerably. Arrhemius' theory was at first greeted with enthusiasm. Then it was more or less forgotten (in the United States it was not even taught) but it is now back in favor, partly because of the high temperature of Venus and its carbon dioxide atmosphere. In any event, it agrees with the cold climate of the Permian which no geologist denies. General glaciation may not have occurred but evidently the climate was cold enough for glaciers to form on what may have been fairly modest mountain ranges. IF Since the word Karroo will be mentioned often in what is to follow it might be practical here to explain its meaning. Karroo is the name of some landscape in South Africa, divided into the Little Karroo between Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, and the Great Karroo to the east of it. Originally the world was the Hottentot word karusa , meaning "dry" or "without plants." It is a mountainous area and geologists saw without much trouble that the "Karroo formation" showed four subformations. We now know that the whole Karroo formation is "old Permian" -- though it probably does not represent the very beginnings of that period. Its duration is estiThe duration of the whole Permian years. The telltale signs of glaciation in the Karroo occur in the earliest of its four subdivisions. As far back as about the year #, South African geologists began to look systematically for fossils and soon the Annals of the Transvaal Museum , the Transactions of the Geological Society of South Africa , and Geological Magazine (London) and the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London carried reports on Karroo fossils that fully deserved the alleged remark of a farmer seeing a giraffe in a zoological garden: "There ain't no sich animal." life forms place names are often used -- such as the Atlantosaurus Beds of Wyoming, the Pikermi Fauna (after a place in Greece). The term in this case was Karroo Fossils. Somewhat to my surprise I found repeatedly that laymen think that such names imply exclusiveness -- i.e. that this or that fossilized life form once existed only in the place mentioned. This is not so. The place name sometimes indicates the site of the first discovery -- but usually it points to the site of the best-preserved fossils of a specific type. Karroo Fossils are found in Russia and Texas -- but they first became known from sites in South Africa. And while I am correcting misunderstandings let me add here that it is wrong to call a reptile a dinosaur just because it is extinct and was fairly large. Reptiles are often called "saurians" (because sauros is Greek for "lizard") but just as not every bird is a chicken, not every saurian is a dinosaur. Dinosaurs did not even exist when the Karroo layers were formed. One of the most famous of the Karroo reptiles is Brady saurus -- from Greek bradys , meaning "slow." It is also one of the largest #). It was about # feet long, with #) In older books it is usually listed as Par eiavaurus. This name is now used to designate a group of similar reptiles of which Bradysaurus is a member. an enormously massive skull and heavy jaws. The teeth in these jaws, as is customary with reptiles, are all of the same shape and fairly even in size. It has been said jokingly that a paleontologist looks at feet first and at teeth second. A joke -- but true. The shape of the feet, or rather of the whole leg, reveals the mode of locomotion -- usually one glance is enough to show whether the animal was a runner, a jumper or a climber. The teeth show what the beast ate -- in the case of bradysaurus there can be no doubt that its teeth were used to grind up tough and dry vegetation. Its sturdy legs and massive bones made it clear that it walked slowly. The tail was stumpy and' short. What makes this reptile unique is not its shape -- a plant-eater does not need speed because its lunch cannot run away. The strangeness of this saurian lies in what can only be called the exaggeration of its skeleton -- every bone looks two or three times too thick for its length. Please don't ask me to tell you the reason. No explanation exists. Another puzzling Karroo reptile received the name Dicynodon ("two dog teeth") because its jaws were innocent of teeth except for two very large ones in the upper jaw. Just to make its appearance more incredible the upper jaw is beaked like a turtle's. Because a turtle's beak is both hard and sharp it can be a flesh-eater without needing teeth. But large tortoises are vegetarians -- so the jaws of Dicynodon do not tell us anything about its diet. And the two large conical and slightly curved "dog teeth" make no sense, unless one takes the easy way out and declares them to be secondary sexual characteristics of the males. In size reptiles of the Dicynodon type range from that of a small cat to forms about six feet in length. The larger ones could not have been very fast and are therefore believed to have been vegetarians. A late form, Lystrosaurus , apparently grew tired of dry steppes and semideserts and went into the water. These three-foot reptiles assumed the style of living now practiced by the Florida manatee. It has been mentioned earlier that the teeth of reptiles, though they may differ somewhat in size, are all alike in shape. The Karroo reptiles violated that rule, too. Many have a dentition that looks so much like that of a mammal, especially carnivores, that they have been given the collective name of theriodons or "mammal teeth." Most of them were dogsized, though they had shorter legs than dogs. They probably hunted by jumping their prey instead of outrunning it. A fairly large representative of that group was found near the Dvina river, District of Vologda, in Russia. It received the IF beautiful name of Inostranzevia Alexandri. The first part of that name is a Latinized version of the Russian word for "foreigner." The multitude of differently shaped reptiles from the Karroo did not make much sense at first, beyond demonstrating that the evolutionary process was active during the Permian period. Then many Permian fossils came to light in Texas and were thoroughly investigated by the American paleton. Most important of the Texas fossils was one discovered at West Coffee Creek in Baylor County. The nearest town is Seymour, so the reptile was named Seymouria baylorensis. It was not quite two feet in overall length and it looked like a lizard with an unusually large head and an unusually short tail. The skull was rare for a reptile's in being completely closed. Most reptiles have either two or four holes in their skulls, named Jenestrae (Latin for "windows"). The jenestrae do not expose the brain which is small and protected by a bony capsule of its own. The lack of jenestrae was important because here was a reptile with a skull like those of the amphibians of the preceding Carbon#) So named because of the complicated construction of their teeth. iferous period. One group of the carboniferous amphibians, called the labyrinthodons , #) could be singled out as the direct ancestors of seymouria. It was the most primitive reptile known but it certainly was a reptile, not a peculiar amphibian. Reptiles like seymouria were soon found elsewhere and they go under the collective name of seymouromorphs. Perversely, none is known from the Karroo so far, but an American descendant of seymouria has an African counterpart so a seymouromorph must have been around in Africa -- course, during the Permian periov all continents were still huddled together. had to be a group of reptiles that were the earliest and most primitive and he called this group the cotylosaurs (Greek kotylos means a small cup -- I presume that this refers to an anatomical characteristic). Seymouria was a fine example and then it was realized that the Karroo reptiles and their relatives elsewhere all had to be considered diversified cotylosaurs. The period was simply an evolutionary explosion. Many of these early forms died out before the Permian reached its end. But some were the ancestors of the later reptiles. And even during the Permian a few showed that they were on their way to becoming mammals.# LD s of the universe said ut Man's last breath sank slowly below the  purple hills. The tattered clouds that streamed up the western sky were orange, red and violet banners flying above a tragic army marching beyond the horizon to some final glory. They watched it from inside the room, the man and his visitor. The window that framed the scene was the only place in the room, except the door,that had not been submerged in a tide of books. They had mounted the walls and toppled into corners and reached tooled-leather fingers across the floor. The visitor stood in front of the window, his stocky figure silhouetted against the light. He was a little blurred around the edges, like an afterimage that is beginning to fade. But he was solid enough. The room was silent. But the silence was rippled with words that had been spoken -- the way a still pond remembers the pebbles tossed into it. As the colors faded in the west a husky voice spoke out of the silence and out of the darkness that clasped one corner of the room, revealing only the arm of a tapestry-covered chair, a hand that rested motionless upon it and a foot stuck out stiffly onto a stool, the thin sole touched by a single orange ray of sun. "How will it end?" the voice asked. The answer came over the visitor's shoulder in cultured resonant words with a hint of accent like those of a foreigner who has learned to speak the language better than the natives. "In fire, in ice, with a bang, with a whimper, by cosmic accident, by man's own will and hand. What does it matter?" "I would know." "That is the most persistent trait of intelligence." "You will not tell me?" "Perhaps I do not know. Perhaps I cannot say. We are not gods, you know." "What are you, then?" "Scientists, experimenters. In your language those words might describe us best." "And we are your experiment." The visitor turned around. His face, too, was shadowed. "Yes." "And now the experiment is over." "We have found out what we wished to know. We clean the test tube, sterilize the equipment. You should understand." "Understand? I should not even believe -- and yet I do. Without knowing why." "All your life has been preparation for this moment. You cannot help but believe. But you also must understand." "Intellectually I do. Emotionally I cannot accept the statement that this experiment has achieved its purpose -- that man cannot achieve more." "It is not men, you understand, but the experiment. Men dreds of thousands of generations, thousands of civilizations. What men can do further is repetition. And yet -- " "Do you give me hope?" the husky voice asked. "There is no hope. There is only this odd contradiction in man that you mention, this tension between his intelligence and his animal instincts. He calls it emotion. The curious interplay between your reason and instincts has kept us fascinated long past the experiment's planned duration. But there are many more odd facets to the universe that we would explore and this small complication has preoccupied us too long. We can deal with the curious fact of man in ways that are not so complex -- nor so expensive." "Leave us. Let us live out our destiny." "We are your destiny. You exist only as an experiment. Does the scientist leave his laboratory to build another when one experiment is completed? Neither do we. And although this laboratory -- the very concept of which staggers your imagination -- is only one among many, we do not waste. To us waste is unimaginable." "If you have no love for what you have created -- have you no pity?" "None." "No feeling?" "None. We are rational beings. Our only motivation is the search for knowledge. Perhaps once -- so far back in the mists of our beginning that even we have forgotten -- we had that confusion of intellect that you call feeling. If so, it has been lost irretrievably. We can no more keep from doing the rational than you can stop breathing. On the other hand, you have evolved recently and rapidly. You are an accretion of characteristics, some of them incompatible." The man said nothing. "We had speculated that intelligence is the superior and dominant characteristic," the visiter continued. "But we found that among men this is true only occasionally. These men you call monsters. We find them dull. But you confused and emotional ones have fascinated us beyond your allotted span." "You are the monsters." "You would consider us so. And yet we do nothing that is not rational, whereas you use your intelligence largely to rationalize the crimes you commit against your fellows." "'We create," said the man. T HE visitor stepped forward. His shoes and trousered legs looked ordinary in the light cast from a distant corner by a floor lamp. His shoulders and face still were in darkness. "Yes, you create -- far beyond your predictable powers. Insanely, without plan or reason. Your creation is a magnificent waste; we cannot understand it because we cannot waste. We do not have what you call art or music or IF literature. We do not understand what you call beauty or what you call ugliness -- except in theory." "Then man has something to offer -- something you do not have. He can complement your rational existence with his irrational creativity. With his assistance there is nothing you cannot do, no goals to which you cannot aspire." "We do not wish to do anything. We aspire to nothing except to knowledge. And that we seek in our own rational ways -- which the addition of emotion would only muddle. And now, of course, man seeks to move beyond this test tube in which the human experiment began and to infest and to destroy other experiments. To allow you to do so would not be rational. Your defense of mankind is futile. Man cannot be saved. He is doomed." The man in the shadows sighed. After a moment he said, "You let slip the fact that there are other ways to deal with the fact of man." "I let nothing slip. We make no mistakes." "What are these ways? Would you try to understand us intellectually? Will you run us through your computers until we make sense?" "That is not possible. But ever since the end of the experiment has been obvious -- for the last three millennia -- we have chosen the most creative among you. They have been -- there is not quite the word in your language to describe it -- translated into another existence. We have chosen religious innovators, military leaders, political geniuses, philosphers, artists, writers, composers, scientists -- " "Christ and Mohammed?" "And Gautama Siddhartha." "Machiavelli?" "And Solon and Jefferson." "Plato and Aristotle?" "And Kant and Nietzsche." "Michelangelo?" "And Praxiteles and Picasso." "Shakespeare?" "And Homer and Hemingway." "Bach and Beethoven?" "Brahms and Berlioz." "Archimedes?" "Galileo and Newton and Einstein. There are thousands more and thousands whose names you never heard -- all of them creators. And that is why I am here tonight." "I wondered. I am none of these. I have never created anything." "You are one of them," the visitor said. "The fact that you have not exercised your creativity yet is incidental. We may not have it ourselves -- we may not understand it -- but we have learned to recognize creativity and its signs. In the relative eternity to come you will have time to be creative." "Me. Among them?" "You are one of them -- of equal stature. You can be one of them for long ages, interacting with them, learning from them as they will learn from you and we from all -- in a way that you have only imagined here among your books." "Incredible-" "In your terms -- yes." "My dreams. Heaven." "So we understand." "If I were a superstitious man of another age I would think you an emissary of the devil come to tempt me." "We are all the devil and all the god you im. jine -- both and neither. In another age we spoke in their language and in their frame of reference, as we speak to you in yours." "In what way would existence continue?" The man had leaned forward until his upper body, clothed in a gray sweater, was in the light, although his face still was in the shadows. "In a way much like what you experience now, with certain measures taken to delay your mortality." "And where would it continue?" "In a place removed from here but one you would find pleasant, stocked with all the things you enjoy -- the food, the drink, the books, the music and the art -- and the people and the talk and the ideas and the time to contemplate and to create." "Stop.' You describe heaven." "So you would consider it." "You know me well." "What we can know we know well." The silence returned while the man sank back in his chair and the visitor looked back toward the west where the sunset had faded and the twilight had darkened into night. The evening star gleamed Finally the man spoke again. "What of my wife?" The visitor turned back to the room. "The person who let me in -- but only when I insisted? Who called you a fool?" "Yes." "You do not find her attractive." "I did once." "You do not love her." "Once I did." "She is not exceptional. We cannot save her. In any case, you will not lack for feminine companionship of a more congenial sort in the place where you are going." The man laughed. "Not only heaven but paradise." "So you will consider it." "I believe, after all, that you are an emissary of the devil -- you IF know so well how to tempt a man." "We are rational." "And you want to understand the irrational. What about the rest of humanity?" "A few, like you, we will save. The rest will be destroyed. They are worthless, redundant. Even you will admit this." "In my more rational moments -- perhaps I would. But why do you come to me this way and explain these things to me? If I accepted them as reality -- as more than the strange ravings of a madman or the stranger imaginings of my own mind -- why should you not merely take me away when you destroy the rest?" "Perhaps your understanding is a condition of the translation. Perhaps it is part of the experiment. Perhaps it is both." "Or neither. What if I should refuse?" T HE visitor stopped in the act of speaking. For the first time he appeared uncertain. He stepped forward. He wore an ordinary blue jacket. "Why should you? Why should you throw away what you desire most?" "Would you take me anyway?" The man leaned forward into the light. He was in his middle years -- still vigorous but no longer young. "No. It would do you no good to refuse, however. You would be throwing away your chances of eternity and the satisfactions of creation in a foolish gesture. You cannot save mankind." "I cannot be a party to its destruction either. If the others before me agreed to your proposal -- perhaps they did not have to contemplate the imminent obliteration of the rest." The visitor stepped forward fully into the light. He had an ordinary face. Now it seemed disturbed. , "You would refuse?" "Yes. I refuse." "But why? What do you gain? What can you hope to achieve?" "Perhaps I refuse the essential conditions of your offer. Perhaps by this act I refuse to join those who would profit from the sufferings they inflict on those capable of understanding the nature of their plight. Perhaps I refuse to profit personally from an act which destroys my race. Perhaps I choose to demonstrate to you in this conclusive fashion that you do not understand man at all, that all the other experiments you might perform are meaningless beside this one, that you wipe it out not because it is finished but because you cannot understand it." ( Please turn to page #) dawn was strange and misty. His war wound throbbed. He seemed to have fatigued and aged during the night , -- even his clothes, business suit and shoes, shirt and tie, were worn, all but used up, and he needed a haircut. Dressed, he looked through his bedroom window. The good suburban neighborhood was unkempt this morning. The neighbors lawn featured cast-off junk. His own usually well-kept home showed neglect . He went down to breakfast. had married, looked tired and slovenly. The normally well-stocked cupboard was bare. The two usually were. The kitchen stank of ager, was missing entirely. She seemed to have been been erased. Gill denied that Lori had ever existed. The neighbors did not remember her. Her room in the house had vanished. Other pertinent bits of Jeffs life had melted away as if he had merely dreamed them -- his burgeoning business, his plans for the future. Gill explained, as she would to a child or a sick man. Jeff owned no business. She and he worked -- as did everyone else they knew -- at the Star Tower. She pointed at the window. The mist outside had lifted. Jeff saw a huge tower in the distance, dominating the town. The structure, several hundred feet in diameter, seemed to have grown there overnight but Gill behaved as if it had stood there forever. Becoming aware of an intruder -- at once human and nonhuman -- in the house, Jeff tried to fight. The intruder easily knocked him out m and when Jeff came to. Gill was gone. Where and what was reality? Jeff knocked a hole in a plaster wall where Lori's room used to be and found the room but no Lori. Outside -- neighbors who had known Lori had no recollection of her. They all seemed enslaved by the alien masters of the Star Tower, remembered no other existence. Jeff encountered more of the aliens , fought them and managed to escape. His hunt for Lori took him to Sally Hodges, once Lori's friend -- and at Sally's he encountered a lawless group of refugees who believed that the country had been invaded by the Russians. Jeff was unable to convince them otherwise, finally had to flee for his life. Sally, although she thought he was suffering from deUS lusions, accompanied him in a commandeered truck. They were captured by soldiers and taken to a U.S. -- Russian military encampment under the command of Colonel Strang. The encampment was isolated, self-contained. Both Strang and the Russians were convinced they were fighting Chinese Communists and Jeff's theory of semihuman aliens failed to impress anyone. He and Sally separated. Then Jeff was forcibly " drafted " into Strang's "army." Mallory meets Lori at Strang's encampment, finds Lori had thought him dead. They are not permitted to associate with each other but Mallory forces his way to the women's quarters after hours and they talk. Lori believes Chinese occupy Beatrice, Mallory's home town -- she thinks her father insane when he tells her about the aliens. She is in love with Strang, has implicit faith in him. But she helps Mallory and Sally to escape. Sally, however, is wounded in the action and Mallory goes on alone. He seeks shelter in a lighted house, is captured by crossbowmen who take him to their leader. Brother Jack Harmony of Revelation College. Brother Harmony is a religious fanatic, attributes Earth' s invasion to the devil. While trying to convince Brother Harmony of what has actually happened, Jeff sees Harmony commit a murder and once more has to flee. He accidentally kills Harmony, steals a car, escapes . Desperate with fatigue and lonely, he talks to himself while driving -- finds an other voice chiming in from his subconscious , directing him to "the old house." He finds the place -- seems to remember it. He discovers a dead man in the front hall and a living but very old man , kept alive by a machine, in a bedroom. The old man mistakenly addresses Mallory When he realizes his error about Jeffs identity Gonyl rantingly tells him that he and Algoric are representatives of an intergalactic organization and had been posted on Earth to save the planet from the alien invasion Jeff has witnessed. ligent virus with a genius for adaptability and a hunger for interstellar conquest." Gonyl and Algoric had been sent to Earth as young men to await and warn of the arrival of Mone. Algoric had proven faithless to his trust, had fallen in love with an Earth woman and deserted his iost. Now that the Mone has arrived, Gonyl is unable to send the alarm to his intergalactic superiors because Algoric had the other neccessary half of the code pattern needed to send the message. As Gonyl talks it becomes increasingly clear to Mallory that he has "known" Algoric at some stage of his life -- and abruptly he remembers an "imaginary" uncle who had taken him on magic trips, one a visit to this very house. The memory dates back to Jeffs childhood. He compares notes with Gonyl, who decides that Mallory is a descendant of Algoric s association with the Earth woman and that Mallory probably controls the missing code pattern. He demands that Mallory divulge it. But suddenly Mallory distrusts the old man. "Eve heard enough of your lies," he says. "Now tell me the truth." In the end he babbled, "Ah, you've taken advantage of me, a weak old man -- but all my life I've been a victim of circumstance, driven by forces outside myself, by the wilfulness of others. Listen, Jeff Mallory. The.no-space transmitter can be used in more than one fashion. It will remove me -- and you as well -- to a place of safety far from here. There I will make my report. The planet will be sterilized, robbing the Mone of their prize and -- " "You plan to run out, in other words. Isn't that what you accused Algoric of?" "This world is doomed. Had we acted in time we might have saved it -- but that time has passed. We can do nothing now. And as for myself -- I'm dying. Your arrival was a miracle, the only small stroke of fortune that's come to me in all my long exile. But once on the other side I can live again, restored to full vigor! What will be accomplished by my remaining here to die, sick and alone?" "The holes in your story show, Old Man," Mallory said. "Algoric was the villain of the piece, eh? He wanted to run out -- but you were true-blue?" "I was faithful to my duty -- " "Is that why you killed him?" "But -- as I said -- he escaped -- " "His dead body is lying in the front hall, Gonyl. There's a strange thing about that corpse. It's dressed in old-fashioned clothes. And he was still young -- and you aren't. I think you were the one who was locked out, Gonyl. I think he let you in because you swore you came to help -- and after you got inside you shot him -- perhaps by accident -- and then realized too late that you were still trapped because he'd locked everything in the station against you." For a moment Gonyl's face twisted as if torn by conflicting forces. Then he uttered a snarling laugh. "Very well. What does it matter now? You've guessed a part of the truth -- but I robbed Algoric of the sweetest fruit of his folly. I fled and took his woman with me. She bore his child and died -- so his victory was a hollow one. But all that is past, long past. Into the transmitter -- come, a whole new world waiting, a glory you can't conceive!" "I suppose he called you as soon as he detected the Mone's approach. He thought that now, with the enemy on the way, you'd the job you came for. But you were still thinking only of your own skin." "Lies!" Gonyl howled. "And while you evolve these fantasies our moments of opportunity dribble away like wine from a leaky flagon!" "I think in that last moment, when he knew he was dying, he called to me," Mallory went on. "That's what brought me out of my coma, brought me here. Now you're ready to use me to help you escape and never mind the Jeff Mallory, you don't know -- you haven't yet grasped the situation -- " "I've grasped enough of it to know that as long as there's one forlorn chance of stopping this cancer before it's too late, I'm going to take it." "But -- Jeff Mallory -- there is no human race to save. Surely you know! The first act of the Mone Pod on picking a breeding site is wipes the planet clean of organic life except in the protected area of the nest. The people of your city of Beatrice live as mindless slaves of the Mone. All the rest, Jeff Mallory, are dead!" stood for a long time stunned, his thoughts groping over the shattering concept of a murdered planet, of cities filled with corpses, of deserted farms and airports and silent factories and drifting ocean liners -- groped, unable to come to grips with so vast a disaster. "Now you see why we must make haste to save ourselves," Gonyl was saying. "Join me, Jeff Mallory. I'll show you wonders to make the proudest capitals of this dreary world seem no more than the wattle huts of savages." "All dead?" Mallory said. "All but my home town? But still -- a few thousand people are enough to start with again. There's still a chance." "Their minds are gone," Gonyl shrilled. "They died, too, in a who coughed once and knew no more. Death will be a mercy to them -- " "Not while I'm alive," Mallory said -- and staggered as a phantom blow struck at his brain, this time with massive power. It was as though a steel glove had gripped his mind, were crushing it, blanking out all thought except the command that rang like a trumpet in the turmoil. He felt himself driven back, felt his grip on reality dissolving. Vagrant memories flashed before his waning consciousness -- the walled-up door to Lori's room; the pale tower rising in the city; Sally's upturned face; the wild eyes of Brother Harmony; the old house, standing dark and silent in the night -- flashed and were gone. One image lingered, dim and unsubstantial: the figure of Uncle Al, tall and commanding in the moonlight that streamed through the window. You know what to do, Jeff lad. I've taught you... and you learned well... Mallory rallied, gathered himself, with a quick, decisive effort broke through the shell enveloping his mind, turned on it, shattered it into a thousand fragments. Gonyl's thin wail of despair rang in Mallory's ears. He saw the ancient limbs jerk, sending the withered body over the edge of the cot to slam against the floor, saw the clawed hands reach out to scrabble at the threshold IF of the goal he had sought for so long, saw the skeletal arm fait limp, the skull-head drop to rest against the floor. "Fool, and worse than fool," Gonyl whispered. His eyelids fluttered, came to rest half open over glazed corneas. Looking down at the dead man, MaHory sensed that his last words had been directed, not at Mallory, but at himself. tirety of the message so long ago impressed on the sleeping brain of a child by the man who had called himself Uncle AI -- Algoric, agent of a vast and distant civilization to which the highest cultures of Earth would seem as primitive as the first rude hearths of Neanderthals. And yet, to Algoric this world had been more than a pawn in the game of Galactic war. He had loved a woman here, loved her well enough to give her up in the cause of his duty to her planet. And after she had gone -- thinking him dead -- he had followed her in his mind, had known of the birth of her daughter. And after her death he had watched the development of the child, had seen her grow to womanhood, marry and bear a son. A son named Geoffry Mallory. From his place of exile Algoric had reached out with his mind to touch that of the infant -- had visited him in dreams, walked with him through enchanted lands of light and shadow, had shown him the great Galactic civilization, taught him the history of the long war with the creatures called Mone, revealed to him the secret of the station, taught him its uses, the keys and codes that would unlock its powers. And more -- he had informed him of the nature of the renegade Gonyl, warned him of the man's hidden strengths and fatal weaknesses and had prepared a trap. The no-space transmitter could not be activated without both portions of the code-complex. If the day came when one of the robot sensors in trans-Piutonian orbit screamed its alarm, Algoric knew he would have no choice but to call Gonyl back, permit him entry into the station. Perhaps, in the face of the evidence of the threat he had denied could ever exist, Gonyl would undergo a change of heart, forget his oath of vengeance, let down his guard and join with Algoric in transmitting the warning signal. Algoric had no choice but to trust him. It would be necessary for him to open his mind, drop all defenses; join in the creation of the complex mental pulse which alone would unlock the transmitter. And if in that moment Gonyl chose to strike -- he would meet disappointment. With utmost delicacy Algoric prepared the booby trap within his own mind. He set up a pattern of mental forces that would, at the first hint of treachery, fire a ego-center. Instead of looting Algoric's unprotected mind of its secret, Gonyl would find himself linked mind-to-mind with a corpse. And in that moment of total disorientation, before Gonyl could break the numbing contact with death -- Algoric's final command would imprint itself on the other's mind, unknown and irresistible. Having completed his preparations, Algoric had buried the entire Gestalt under a hypnotic command, leaving Mallory with only the superficial conscious memory of the dream visits of his "imaginary" uncle. Then he had waited. The years had passed. Mallory had grown to man's estate, taken up his career, with oaly an occasional fleeting recollection of the shadowy dream-figure of his childhood. Until the day when Algoric, dying, sent out the call summoning Mallory to the station. Even then Algoric had withheld the final stroke. It was possible that in the eleventh hour Gonyl might recover his lost sense of the duty at which he had failed. If so, he would link with Mallory to transmit the warning message. If not -- if, instead, he used this final opportunity to attempt to loot Mallory's mind of the Algoricsymbol -- then the overriding command would come into effect. To Mallory: the order to strike, take the pattern from Gonyl's mind. To Gonyl: the command to deliver up the prize without a struggle. mitter chamber, Mallory looked with wonderment on the dazzling concept-structure that rose in his mind on command: the unified Galactic command code, both halves joined in a fusion that was more than the sum of the parts. He reached out along the intertwining lines and planes of thought, touched the transmitter control. Instantly the disk narrowed, closing in on itself until the original silvery globe rested on the squat pedestal. Another touch and the black portal opened wide again. The utter simplicity of the device fascinated Mallory. A touch -- so -- and the globe would fold in on itself, its latent energies dissolved in a single shaped pulse of no-space oscillation that would flash across half a galaxy to record the alarm, pinpointing its IF location on a minor world far out in the Galactic Arm. A different touch -- so -- and the energy configuration would reform itself, become a matter transmitter of limited range, using no-space energies to thrust a material pulse across space at lightspeed -- a pulse consisting of the entity which was Jeff Mallory. He would sense no lapse of time, though years would pass before the quantum-bundle impinged on the receiving station on an artificial planet a tenth of the way to Galactic Center. There he would deliver the news of the Mone investment of another world. Too late, then, to salvage the native population. A crew would be dispatched at once to deal with the tainted world -- and Jeff Mallory would be alive, a free citizen of the glittering Galactic society. It interested him to note that he had not the slightest impulse to avail himself of the latter opportunity. Uncle Al's instructions had been simple and imperative: relay the warning which would be instantaneously delivered and instantaneously acted on. In hours, the special-alert crew would arrive via no-space. If they were too late -- if the Mone had already spawned -- it would be necessary to mind-bomb the entire planet. If not, it would be sufficient to dissolve the Mone nest and sterilize the planetary surface for a hundred miles around the center of infection. Despite Gonyl's pronouncement that most of Earth's populace was dead, insofar as Mallory knew, the spawning had not yet taken place. If he acted swiftly most of the planet would survive. Mallory looked at the gleaming sphere that waited for his command to send the alarm flashing across space. He reached out and switched it off. It fell in on itself, dwindled to a blazing point of "You counted on me, Uncle Al," Mallory said aloud. "But I'm not a Galactic. I'm a poor, instinct-ridden primitive. You left me with two choices. I can't take either of them." hours later, after searching it from attic to subcellar. He had turned up nothing that might be useful as a weapon against the Mone but he had found a pair of good boots -- of Galactic make -- a warm coat, food. In early evening gloom he made his way back down through the dense shrubbery, emerged on the unsurfaced road he had followed coming in. The searchers were gone. No lights moved anywhere in the broad valley spreading below him. His present position, as well as he could estimate by dead reckoning, was some fifty miles northwest of Beatrice. He set off across an open field toward a distant line of trees, impatient at the slow pace, wishing for a car. Time was running out -- might of spores, Gonyt had said. Mallory scanned the skies, wondering what appearance such an outpouring of alien seed would present. A gray cloud, spreading over the stars? A murky overcast, rolling forward like a fogbank at sea? But the sky was clear, swept clean by a bitter wind. Dry cornstalks, unharvested, blanketed the ground, blown flat with their burdens of ripe ears by the winter winds. A doomed species, incapable of reproducing its own kind now that the hand of man was gone. Next year a hardy crop of weeds would spring up all across the empty plains of the continent. Succeeding years would bring new varieties and in half a century the old grasslands would have reclaimed their own. The wild cattle and horses grazing there would burgeon enormously and the timid bison, brought back from the brink, would again darken the plains with their numbers. And the gaunt timber wolves, emerging from the remote wilds of the north, would run in packs, pulling down the weak and the lame and the aged and the very young. And it would be as if man had never been. And even that picture, Mallory reflected, was an optimistic one, presupposing that plant and animal life would somehow survive the invasion andor the Galactic counterattack. Hundreds of billions of creatures, matured from the broadcast spores, would blanket the world like a plague, building toward the critical numbers that would trigger the next broadcasting of seed pods to race across space to infect the next ring of worlds. Was there any stopping of such voracious fecundity? Was the battle in vain, doomed before it was joined? He did not know, would never know. Out there -- across lightyears, across ages, the war had raged. A war -- or a vast Galactic pest-control program. It was a thought that seemed to reduce all human struggle and aspiration to the minuscule level of the buzzing of bees in a hive. How humbling to the vaulting spirit of earthly man if he found himself destroyed in the overkill of a Galactic Flit Gun. A road ran behind the line of trees. Mallory crossed it, traversed a patch of dark woods, came upon a dirt track leading in the correct direction. He tramped on. About midnight he paused to rest under a tree before an empty IF farmhouse where a gutted convertible squatted on flat tires. An hour later he encountered a stalled car in the road, the badly decomposed corpse of a man slumped behind the wheel visible through the cloudy glass. He told himself that there was no point in opening the door and trying the starter -- the battery would be long dead. Three miles farther, in front of a deserted gas station, he found four cars. One, an elderly Ford with a manual shift, gave a faint groan as he tried the starter. The road had a gentle downward grade at that point. With difficulty he manhandled the vehicle out onto the apron, jumped in, coasted downhill, let out the clutch. The engine fired, sputtered and caught. Mallory covered twelve miles before running out of gas. He left the car on the shoulder, walked on into the outskirts of a lightless town announced by a faded sign as Beaver Crossing. He passed empty houses, the dry leaves drifting the street crunching underfoot. There was a sidewalk beside the main street. His dim reflection paced beside him in the dusty windows of abandoned shops. A block of buildings had burned. The acrid odor of charred timber still clung to the blackened remains of collapsed buildings. There was a small automotive repair shop in the next block. As Mallory paused to cast a speculative eye over the vehicles packed inside the closed garage, two men in khaki uniforms with the shoulder patch of Strang's army stepped out from a doorway and aimed rifles at his chest. One put a flashlight on his face. "It's about time," Mallory said. "I was beginning to think you'd never make your move." O NE of the two men was a stranger to Mallory; the other was a tall, big-wristed fellow he had seen during his stay in camp. The latter held the light on him while the other frisked him awkwardly, declared him clean. "You made a mistake hanging around here, boy," the familiar one said. "Sarge will be pleased to see you again. He was kind of put out when you left without saying so long." They prodded him along to a dusty jeep parked around the corner, .drove at breakneck speed along bumpy back roads that brought them up to the encampment gate in half an hour. The dirt streets were full of armed men carrying packs and rifles and being lined up and counted There were floodlights beyond the camp, along the edge of the pasture. Mallory heard the rumble of big engines warming up. The jeep made its way through the throng, turned down an alley between dark cook tents, fmlled up before the barbed-wire enclosed stockade. "I don't have time for this," Mallory said. "I have to see Strang, fast." "Not tonight, chum -- the colonel's busy tonight. What we got to do -- we got to lock you up and get you off our hands. There'll just be the one man to watch the compound. Kudnik. He's got a sprained ankle but he's damn good with that ought-three-oh. His order'll be to plug you if you just look at the fence. Come on. Out!" "What's going on?" One of the men caught Mallory's arm, hauled him out of the jeep. "Tonight's the night we hit Beatrice, Bud. The Chinks'll think it's World War Four. They won't know what caught 'em." "Don't waste time, Gus," the other man said, giving Mallory a rough shove toward the guard shack. Mallory half closed his eyes, feeling out gingerly for the mindglow of the man. He sensed it, studied it, then probed gently. "We got orders -- " the man was saying. His voice faltered. He came to a halt, stood uncertainly, as if not sure in which direction to go.  Mallory turned his attention to the other man, was caught by surprise as he saw the gun coming swiftly up. He struck. The man dropped the gun, fell forward on his face and lay without moving. Mallory turned quickly to the first man, who was blinking his eyes dazedly, shaking his head. "You were going to take me to the colonel," he said urgently. "No time to waste." "Yeah -- sure," the man said blurrily. "Come on." Without a glance at his fallen comrade he led the way toward the main house. lory, motioned to a chair. "Well, I hope you had a nice stroll around the countryside, Mallory," he said in tones of heavy sarcasm. He narrowed his eyes. "See anything interesting out there?" "Enough. Strang, you've got to call this raid off." "Oh? Anything else?" "Plenty. Among other things, I found a man who's seen the Mone -- the aliens." "Anybody I know? Where is he?" "He's dead." "Oh? Too bad. In that case, I'm afraid I'll just have to go ahead -- " "That's not all, Strang. I now know what the Mone are," Mallory said. Strang sighed. "I was hoping you'd be over that one." "The Mone," Mallory said, "are a life form about halfway between organic machines and what we think of as living creatures. They aren't precisely what we'd call intelligent. Their actions are directed by a kind of super-instinctive pattern -- like insect behavior but a thousand times more complex and with a few dozen them." Strang slapped the desk with both hands. "Damn it, man, knock off this crank talk. I don't know what you're trying to prove -- but it's not working. You're no more crazy than I am. I need every good man -- " "There's a time element involved, Strang. The Mone pattern is to pick their spot and build in effect a nest -- using local labor to help. When everything's ready their queen, or brood sow or whatever you want to call her, settles down to spore production. The whole hive is directed toward feeding and supporting her while germ cells. They're broadcast when the time is ripe. That's what the tower is for. The spores are microscopic. They're fired all the way into the stratosphere and spread out to blanket the planet. In a few weeks they've settled in, found food supplies -- " "That's enough!" Strang roared. "By God, Mallory, I promised Lori -- " He broke off, took a deep, calming breath. "I've had a talk with your daughter -- a fine young woman in whom I have implicit confidence -- and I gave her my word I'd give you every opportunity to show me that you deserve a place on my staff. I need officers, Mallory. I need -- " "You need to listen to me, Strang. I came here to tell you what I've found out and to enlist your cooperation. I -- " "Came here, hell. You were marched here at gunpoint, at my orders. You cost me valuable gasoline and man-hours beating the brush for you." "If I'd wanted to stay lost, do you really think I'd have walked right up to your picket line? Start thinking straight, Strang. I came back here, as I said, to tell you something. Suppose you listen before you waste the pitch on me?" "I'm not interested in your let bygones be bygones for Lori's sake. But -- n "The spawning could take place at any time, Strang -- any hour, any minute. Once that's happened, it's all over. If even IF one per cent of the spores survive -- and they have a fantastic survival rate -- in a few weeks there'll square inch of the planet. They're tough, strong -- not intelligent but effective in their own way -- and they have just one objective: breeding more of their kind. They -- " "All right, that's enough." Strang came to his feet. "You've taken this line and you're stuck with it. Fine. If you'd rather swab pots and pans than help me plan strategy -- " Both men turned as a side door to the room opened. Lori came in, looking pale but determined in a tailored khaki uniform. "Dad -- I've been listening to what you've been saying. I -- I can't believe you're insane. So there must be some other reason for your ravings. I don't know what it is and I don't want to know. But I'm appealing to you -- " "Wait, Lori. I'd like to take the time to convince you you ought to listen to me, that what I'm telling you is true, to go into the matter of proof -- but I can't. I came here because I want help in what I'm going to do." "What are you planning, Dad?" "I'm going into Beatrice and do what I can against what's there. A few good men with guns would help." Lori's face was tense, wooden. She turned to Strang. "I'm sorry, James," she whispered. "I was wrong. I withdraw my request. I release you from your promise. Do -- whatever you must." She turned quickly and reached for the door. "Wait," Mallory said softly. The girl grasped the knob, pushed the door open -- and paused. It's like reaching out with a gentle hand to the softly glowing intricacy that was a living mind , touching it delicately... Lori turned, a faintly bemused expression on her face. Not looking at either of the two men, she went to a chair, sat down carefully, folded her hands in her lap. Mallory went to the open door, closed it on the curious face of the sentry posted outside. "I'm glad you've decided to hear me out, Lori," he said. "I'll make this short and to the point, Colonel. I'm going into Beatrice. I want your army with me -- all of it -- armed and briefed for a hell of a fight." Strang snorted. But before he could speak, Mallory went on: "Nobody will get sick, Colonel. There may be a bout of nausea as we go through the outer protective field but it won't be fatal. Once in the city, no civilians are to be molested. The enemy won't be hard to identify -- they're alien. You'll understand as soon as you see one." "You're raving, Mallory. I'm hitting Beatrice, yes -- but not with infantry. I have half a dozen tow planes and more cargo gliders than I need -- and plenty of high explosives. I'll fly half a dozen sorties over the town and pound it flat. Then I order my armor in. The Chinks won't know what hit them -- " "Colonel, I've told you the city is full of innocent non-combatants -- " Strang's hand reached for the intercom button on his desk. Mallory struck quickly, without thinking. Strang's face went chalky white. He made a strangled sound and fell sideways from his chair. Lori uttered a horrified cry. Mallory whirled as she came out of the chair, her eyes straining wide, her mouth ready for the scream. He touched her with a sSvift, controlled thought. She sank back into the chair, sat awkwardly, her face slack and amazed. Mallory bent over Strang. The unconscious man was breathing hoarsely. His face was flushed. Mallory lifted him into his chair, then probed delicately. He saw the point of impact, an area of dimness in the surrounding glow. With a gentle precision he reactivated the energy flows, saw the stunned portion of the man's mind begin to warm back toward consciousness. head, focused his eyes on Mallory. Lori moaned softly. "Listen to me, both of you," Mallory said in a flat, clipped voice, looking from one to the other. "You've just encountered something outside your experience. Accept it, recognize the fact that there's something here you don't understand. Your picture of reality was wrong in one respect? -- it could be wrong in others." "How -- how did you move that fast?" Strang asked uncertainly. "It was like a snake striking." "I haven't moved," Mallory said. "Tell him, Lori." Her expression was stricken. "He -- didn't move at all, James. You just collapsed. I thought -- " "He's all right," Mallory said quickly. "I'm sorry, Lori. I had no choice." "Who -- what are you?" Mallory's daughter stared at him with an expression of horror. "I felt something -- inside my skull -- " She clamped her hands to the sides of her head. "I'm your father, Lori," he said harshly. "I wish I had time to take you along slowly, explain it all to you in detail, coax you to understand -- to trust me. But I don't. Just face the fact that there's more IF to what I'm saying than a maniac's fancies." He turned to Strang. "You're a military man, Colonel, a realist. When the first A-bomb hit Hiroshima the Japanese might not have understood what happened -- but they couldn't ignore the results. I'm asking you to accept the fact that I know something you don't. I'm asking you to take me on trust, give me the men I need." "You're crazy," Strang said, making an effort to pull himself together. "Crazy men sometimes have superhuman strength; maybe they have superhuman speed, too -- " "I told you -- Lori told you -- I hit you with my mind, not my fist." "All right -- suppose you did what you claim. What's that got to do with sending my troops into a plague area?" Mallory leaned on the desk with both fists. "There's no plague. There is an occupying force. At the present moment there are only a few hundred of them -- the workers who protect and feed the Queen Mone. We can take them, Strang. At least we have a chance. If we don't act now -- today -- it may be too late." Mallory saw the change in Strang's expression; he reached, touched lightly. Strang lurched backward, uttered a gargling groan, clapped a hand to his head. Mallory turned to see Lori on her feet. "Lori -- for God's sake don't push me." "No -- not God's sake. I don't know whatthis is -- what terrible power you have -- but -- " Strang was struggling up. "Wait, damn it," Mallory said urgently. "Hear me out -- " Lori moved toward him. He brushed her mind lightly. She staggered, caught herself. Strang had come around the end of the desk. "He can't handle both of us at once," he said in a low, taut voice. "Lori, get out of the room, call -- " Mallory touched her again as she started for the door. She went to her knees. He hit Strang as the man charged him, stepped aside as he fell. "I can handle you, Strang," Mallory said. "By knocking you out. But that won't help. I need you conscious -- both of you." "Looks like a stand-off," Strang said through clenched teeth. He was on all fours, shaking his head. Mallory went to Lori, lifted her. "Please -- I'm begging you. Listen, then judge." "I -- all right. Dad," Lori said in a whisper, and pulled herself away. "I suppose we haven't any choice." fifteen minutes later. "I've listened. What I've heard confirms my conviction that you're out of your mind." "Wait, James," Lori spoke up. "What Dad says does explain some things. If it were possible -- " "But since it isn't," Strang cut in harshly, "we can -- " "How do you know what's possible, Strang?" Mallory broke in. "Or do you know? Aren't you just guessing? Damn it, think like a tactician. If the opposition comes up with something brand new, do you deny it -- or deal with it? Chinese Communists? Holed up in Beatrice, Nebraska, waiting for you to bomb them out? Does that fit what you know of the realities "You'll have to take what I tell of war?" you on faith." "James -- couldn't you send "And that I won't do. Can't do. someone to look at the city, fly Suppose -- for the sake of arguover it in a glider, maybe -- take ment -- that there is something to pictures. If there really is a tower, your story. How do I know these as Dad described it -- " aliens of yours won't wipe us out "There's no time for reconnaison sight with some kind of Buck sance, Strang," Mallory said. Rogers death ray? These men trust me, Mallory. They're my command. I'm their leader. You talk about tactics and you expect me to walk into a blind ambush not knowing what kind of firepower the enemy has?" "I've told you the consequences." "And I've told you no, damn it." Mallory nodded. "All right," he said. "I wish I could take over your mind and force you to issue orders but I'm not that good. Maybe I will be some day -- if I live. I haven't begun to explore what I have." He turned to Lori. "I'm sorry, Lori. Sorry I couldn't make you understand. Maybe some day you will." He strode to the door, looked back at Strang. "Don't try to stop me, Colonel. Under pressure I might hurt someone. I just don't know enough about the mind to control it." "Where are you going?" Lori blurted. "Where I said I was going, Lori." "Alone?" "It looks that way." "James -- you can't let him. He'll die. And if he is right -- " "How can I stop him?" "You can give him some men -- a few men. Something. You have to do something, James!" Strang stared hard at Mallory. "Would one man help?" Mallory nodded. Strang punched his intercom key. "Tell Brozhny to come in." They waited in silence. In less than a minute the door opened to admit the Russian. "You're in temporary command," Strang said. "Hold the attack until I come back." "James -- you're not going yourself?" Lori burst out. "It's too dangerous -- " "What do you want me to do, girl -- send another mafl to take my risks for me?" "But James -- you're the leader." "Vass can handle it." Strang turned to Mallory. "How close do you have to be to see the tower?" "Five miles, maybe." ."All right. Five miles. And if there's no tower -- we'll both forget this story of yours. Agreed?" "And if there is?" "Then possibly I'll have a little rethinking to do." "Then you'll go a little farther?" "How far?" "Far enough to see proof of the rest of what I've said." Strang nodded, caught the Russian officer's eye. "If I'm not back by sundown tomorrow -- it's all yours. And Vass, when you take the bombers in -- if you see a tower hit it first." "As you wish, Colonel." "All right, Mallory," Strang said. "Let's go have a look at these little green men of yours." IF "Not little," Mallory said. "Not green. And not men." waved and, with a scatter of gravel, IX bandaged and carried in a sling, and Lori, stiff-faced but tearless, stood by silently as Mallory and Strang stowed their rifles and supplies in the Jeep. Strang started the engine, waved and , with a scatter of gravel, gunned down the winding drive. He opened up on the highway straddling the faded yellow centerline. "Mallory, I've been thinking about your story," he called over the buffeting of the wind. "Trying to put my finger on all the logical flaws in it. Funny thing is -- I have to admit it's damned ingenious -- once you get past the basic premise. Accounts for everything. It worries me a little, Mallory. Your being nuts is a lot easier for me to handle than an invasion from space." "If ypu don't see what I told you you'd see I'll go back and enlist for the duration," Mallory said curtly. "In the meantime, let's let it go at that." For the next half hour Strang drove at breakneck speed, slowing only when necessary to skirt a stalled car or tank. They passed a sign announcing Beatrice in ten miles. Mallory took deep breaths to quiet an unease in his midriff that was rapidly growing toward burning nausea. Strang was frowning fiercely. He drove on two more miles, then slowed. "I don't like this, Mallory," he said. His tanned face was sallow and sweat beaded his forehead. "Damn it, man, the air is poisonous. It's making me sick to my stomach." "I told you about this effect," Mallory said. "It's not plague, Strang. It's a protective field designed to keep out any interlopers caped the hypnosis." "You've got an answer for everything." "Is that supposed to prove I'm wrong?" "Damn it, man, you've got to be wrong. Otherwise -- " "Drive on, Colonel. Prove I'm wrong. We ought to see it any time now. Maybe around that next bend." "Sure. You'll point and say, There it is.' And I'll take a look and won't see a damned thing." "You'll see the tower. Sally told you they could see it on a fair day from the farm." "They saw searchlights, that's all." "Colonel, quotes, you've got an answer for everything," Mallory said sardonically. Strang gunned the jeep savagely. "Sure, but my answers make sense." The vehicle topped a low rise of ground. Ahead lay a cluster of crossroads gas stations. Beyond were scattered houses, the beginnings of the first outlying suburb of Beatrice. The jeep slowed. Strang gripped the wheel, his face taut, staring toward the misty green column rising above the roofs across the plain. He braked to a stop, unstrapped himself, unslung the binoculars from his hip, adjusted them, stood for half a minute in the jeep, studying the scene. He lowered the glasses, resumed his seat. His tongue touched his lips. "Yeah," he said abruptly. "Let's go take a closer look, Mallory." He eased the jeep into gear and drove more slowly. shade of a strand of leafless sycamores beside an elderly, sag"It's quiet," he said. "Damned quiet -- and no corpses." He climbed out of the jeep, stood with his head cocked, listening to the utter stillness. "All right, you see the town," Mallory said. "And no Chinese Communists. Now let's get out." "Damn it, Mallory, you don't expect me to go back and tell Brozhny I've bought your whole story on the basis of a building that maybe looks a little different from what you'd expect to see in a prairie town. Let's take a little walk." "This isn't a good idea, Strang. This is enemy territory." "I want to see all there is to see." "All right, but remember what I told you. If you have to use that gun aim for the navel -- or where the navel would be if you were shooting at a human." They walked along past the empty house, an abandoned gas station. "It all looks so damned normal, Mallory," Strang said, an almost pleading note in his voice. "All but that damned tower." "You'll even see lawn sprinklers working," Mallory said. "And milk bottles on back porches. They're trying to create a normal environment for their workers and they don't know what's important. They reason like a boy putting a grasshopper in a bottle with six different kinds of weeds." "Hold it." Strang's hand shot out to block Mallory. "Listen." The sound of a distant engine running raggedly, as if it were being started up after a long period of idleness, reached them. "Time to go," Mallory said, speaking softly. "Aliens," Strang said. "Flying saucerites from another planet. IF They settle in a small town, take over our shapes, our houses, our cars -- and start a factory. Nuts." He said the last word flatly, without intonation. "I don't believe any of it, Mallory. Come on. Let's nab the mayor or the chief of police or whoever the hell is in charge here and find out what's going on." He started forward. Mallory caught his arm. "Wait a minute, Strang. I brought you here to show you something, not to get you killed. The city's occupied by the enemy -- can't you get that into your mind? Now, let's get out of here and come back loaded for bear." "Damn it, man -- it looks as if this city lived through the Chink attack by the grace of God -- and if you think -- " "I think it's time to go back, Strang." "I haven't seen enough." He froze to listen to the sound of an engine approaching swiftly. "Get behind that signboard -- fast," Mallory rapped. "Wait a minute. Maybe -- " Mallory sprinted for concealment. Strang followed him presently. They lay flat, watching a white bread truck come into view, slow, swing the corner, approach the sign. It stopped in the middle of the street a hundred feet away. Two men stepped down, stood attentively, as if listening. "Those are men, not monsters," Strang whispered. "I want to talk to them, find out -- " Mallory caught his arm. "If you saw them up close you wouldn't think they're men. And we're not going to get that close." Mallory turned at a sound. A tall man in a gray coverall was approaching across the lot, walking with a curious, shambling gait. "You get your wish," Mallory said. "Stand still. Maybe we can bluff our way through." Strang eyed the oncoming figure, fingering his rifle. "For God's sake, Mallory," he said in a low voice. "The fellow's as human as I am -- even if he does walk as if he had two artificial legs." "He has," Mallory said flatly. "Don't say anything. Just be ready." sound, rose to his feet, his eyes on the stranger. Mallory stood beside him. The figure stopped ten feet away, stood in a curiously lifeless stance, body poised at an awkward angle. At this distance the doughy textures of skin and garments were obvious. The face was a mask painted with flat colors on porous rubber. "Mother of God," Strang whispered. "Why are you not at your benches?" the simulacrum inquired in the unctious tones of a television pitchman and, without waiting for a reply, advanced on Strang. The colonel took a step back, set the butt of the rifle against his hip and fired. The shot was deafening; pale flame spurted. The impact of the bullet spun the creature -- it regained its balance, resumed its advance, a pit the size of an olive gaping high in its chest. "It will be necessary to give you pain," it said. Mallory brought his rifle to his shoulder, fired, rode the kick, fired again. The effigy stumbled, fell face forward with a sound like a mattress striking the ground. Strang aimed his rifle at its head. Mallory caught the muzzle, thrust it aside. "That way," he snapped and shoved Strang. The two men sprinted across an open field, between two garages, through a gap in a hedge. They emerged in a narrow alley behind a warehouse. The white vehicle was visible at the corner, catching up rapidly. "They must have detected us as soon as we got into their screens," Mallory said as they ducked back. "We walked right into it." "Not human," Strang muttered. His face was a strange, blotchy color. "My God -- like a rag doll -- walking and talking. Those eyes -- " "We're within a block of the jeep," Mallory said. "We'll let this car pass, then run for it." Crouched in deep shadow beside the house, Mallory felt a wave of dizziness pass over him. For a moment the scene faded, as if a transparent curtain of sparkling black silk had dropped down around him. Voices seemed to clamor at him from a distance. They had a strange urgency. With an effort he squeezed his eyes shut, shook his head. He took a deep breath, gathered his fading consciousness, focused it. He was on all fours, listening to a distant humming that faded, died, as color washed back into the scene. An engine was idling nearby. Footsteps sounded, coming closer. "Strang," Mallory whispered. "Get set. As soon as he's past, we duck out and run like hell -- " A shadow fell across a patch of sunny lawn. A man in Western costume, complete with cowboy hat and holstered guns, paced past their hiding place. His footsteps receded. "Let's go." Mallory came to his feet, glanced back as Strang failed to move. The colonel stood against the wall, the rifle in his hands pointing at the ground. "Strang -- snap out of it." Strang's eyes had a glazed, outof-focus look. Mallory caught his IF arm. Strang blinked at him vaguely"Release me," he said tonelessly. "I must -- my work -- " "Strang -- they've gotten to you. Fight it, man. Throw it off." Strang pushed at him, struggled to free himself. His movements were uncoordinated, clumsy. Mallory caught his wrists. "Strang -- remember Lori? Remember your army, waiting for you to come back and lead the attack?" "The work waits." Mallory felt the dizziness touch him again. This time he pushed it away more easily. With a sudden wrench, Strang tore himself free. He straightened, brushed at his khaki shirt. "Well, I have to be getting along," he said briskly. "It's time, you know. We're all needed -- " Mallory closed his eyes, concentrating. He sensed Strang's mind-glow, dim and cramped, locked in a web of blackness. Gently, he probed, found an interstice, slipped inside. Strang -- wake up... He sensed faint stirrings of alarm, of partial understanding, partial recognition. Mai -- Mallory. Cant -- think. Like -- drowning in tar -- cold -- hurts -- Mallory opened his eyes. Strang sagged against the building, his face pale, his mouth open. He took a shaky step and stumbled to his knees. Mallory heard returning footsteps. The car was coming closer. He reached again for Strang's mind, forced Strang to totter to his feet. plastic lunged into view six feet away. It pivoted, eyes staring fixedly, blankly. This time the Mone's mental blow was sharp, precisely aimed. Mallory's counter lanced out at the gleaming pinpoint that was the other's mindfield, clashed against alienness, absorbed a brief, shocking pain, then held and clung. He was peripherally aware of Strang stumbling back against the wall, of the pseudoman standing frozen in mid-stride. He thrust harder, searching for entry through the other's defenses, found a line of juncture, jabbed. Light exploded in his mind. He was in a vast room lit by a greenish light, filled with an alien stench, alien sounds. The space was almost completely filled by a vast sponge-like structure of translucent cells, filaments and tubes -- like the interior of a human lung seen under high magnification, the thought came to him. All around the central mass men and not-men hurried, involved in incomprehensible tasks. Mallory sensed an air of extreme tension, of time stretched to the breaking point, of events swollen to bursting. It is the time. Now existence rushes toward fulfillment in the fruiting of the spore-body... With a violent effort, Mallory wrenched against the paralyzing contact with the Mone thoughtfield. He knew a sense of being torn, of a bubble bursting, a vessel smashed, of life-force seeping away. The not-man before him settled into a boneless squat, head dangling backward, hands flat, palms up, fingers fully extended. In death all humanity drained from the puppet, leaving it a thing deflated of any semblance of life. "My God," Strang said. "What -- what was that? How -- " "It's too late to go back now, Strang," Mallory said swiftly. "Time has run out. The Mone is about to spawn -- in minutes, maybe even seconds -- " Strang jerked as if a rope had been pulled. He took an awkward step, shuddered, stood straight. "Now we must go to our benches," he said carefully, looking toward the great tower soaring above the rooftops. The sound of the vehicle engine was close, idling. Two not-men appeared, came toward them, ignoring the dummy slumped in the path. "Now you must go to your benches," the smaller, thinner one said in the voice of an earnest young pharmacist recommending a patent tranquilizer. "Yes," Mallory said in a flat tone, "Now we must go to our benches." Led by the not-men, with Strang striding confidently beside him, he walked out to the street and headed toward the tower. T HE downtown streets had the same derelict look they had had a week before. A few more papers were being blown along the sidewalks. More weeds had sprouted in the cracks in the pavement. Mallory's footsteps had a hollow, echoing quality. The air was cool in the shadow of the tower. The gate in the wall opened as they came up. The flat ground beyond it was as hard and grassless as a school playground. A few not-men were moving with an air of compulsive haste. Off to one side a man lay on his face, his arms under him. His color indicated that he was dead. None of the not-men seemed to be aware of the corpse. Mallory and his escort passed through a rounded opening in the base of the tower into a curving chamber that suggested the interior of an immense seashell. The walls were a translucent, nacreous green, flaring up and over, bending away until they were lost in green gloom. An acrid, kelplike IF odor hung in the muggy air. He heard a persistent murmur of sound, like that of a restless crowd in an auditorium beyond closed doors. The two not-men who had conducted him and Strang here separated, one moving off to the right, the other continuing toward a small passage opening in the curve of wall. Strang unhesitatingly followed the latter. Mallory took the cue. The route led downward in a gentle spiral. There was no floor as such -- in cross-section the passage was nearly circular. A narrow drift of dust and debris formed a ridge along the centerline. The light grew dimmer, the sounds louder, the odors more pungent. The passage opened into a wide room cut into a maze by a system of waist-high partitions that extended out of sight around a central core of dull, dark green. There were hundreds of people -- Mallory saw familiar faces, drawn and haggard in the sickly light. Strang's guide halted. Two figures were approaching, oddly colorless and amorphous. At close range Mallory saw that they were faceless, hairless versions of the not-men he had seen above ground. Their bodies were smooth, featureless, a uniform dull gray in color. Mallory extended his awareness cautiously, contacted the pin-point not-man who had led him here, the brighter, more complex emanations of the newcomers. He was aware of a swift, flickering interchange among them, then of a tentative probe at his own mind. For a moment he knew an intruding sense of uncertainty. Then all three aliens turned abruptly and walked away. With the air of one who knows exactly where he is going Strang stepped through an opening in the low wall. Mallory followed. Inside he stopped, caught Strang's arm. He closed his eyes, willed his consciousness outward. The glow that was Strang's mindfield was almost obscured by an enveloping blanket of gray. Mallory stripped it away. Strang staggered, caught himself, looked around with an expression of bewilderment. His eyes fell on Mallory. "We're inside the tower,", Mallory said quickly. "You've been unconscious. How do you feel?" "Godawful," Strang muttered: " Dream s -- then -- nothing -- " "We're all out of time. We have to try to get to the spawning chamber. I'm guessing that will be central. We'll play it by ear. Come on." He strode along a narrow passage. Strang followed. A low shelf lined the inner surface of the partition here. At intervals of a few feet men and women were posted -- genuine men and women but dull-eyed, slack-featured, thin and pale, their clothing in various degrees of neglect. It appeared, Mallory saw, to be an assembly line of sorts. He saw heaps of small objects resembling carved beans before each worker. They were being strung on wires. No one paid the slightest attention to the intruders. Mallory turned through an opening in the low wall, followed another aisle, lined like the others with toiling, blank-eyed men and women. He recognized a dentist who had once filled a molar for him. A complexly intertwined rope was coiled on the counter before the man among scattered beans, some of which had spilled to the floor. Mallory reached out, plucked the work from his hands. The man hesitated only a moment -- then he plucked a coil of the hair-fine black wire from the disorder, seized a bean, threaded it onto the wire. "Dr. Foyle," Mallory said in a low voice. "Can you hear me?" Foyle gave a violent twitch. The bean fell from his fingers. He looked wildly at Mallory. "It is time," he mumbled and turned back to his work, grabbing for a new bean with an air of frantic haste. Mallory reached carefully to touch the other's mind -- the pseudo-glow was barely perceptible, submerged under multiple layers of inhibiting anti-thought. Delicately, Mallory penetrated the maze, touched the paralyzed ego-center. Foyle's hands froze on his work. I need your help , Foyle. I need information. Where is the spawning chamber? How can I get to it? T HE former dentist's head jerked. He put his hands to his head, made an ugly noise. "Get out -- got to get out -- get away -- get -- filthy thing -- out of my head -- " Foyle's voice rose on the last words. "Quiet," Mallory whispered. "I want to help you." "Late. No time. She'll spawn now -- in a matter of minutes -- must -- complete -- " Foyle grabbed for the beans. "Where is she? How can we get there? What can we do?" Foyle seemed to respond. He stared at Mallory. "Big room -- Great Queen -- God, the urge to let go -- give in to it -- loyalty to Green Queen -- " "Where is she, Foyle?" "Must -- complete genetic package -- response -- environment -- modification. Almost ready -- pressures -- nutrients -- " "How do we reach the Queen's chamber?" "She's -- almost ready. Need -- IF all genetic data. These -- among -- genes. I'm building chromosomes. They're like -- tapes, fed into her -- into it! The horror -- the beauty. Strange. Torn two ways. Must add my contribution to adaption -- best chance for survival -- second generation -- " A hoarse, gargling sound came from Foyle's mouth. He made an abortive attempt to rise, then fell forward over his bench. Mallory thrust to the center of his fading thought-glow, saw it collapsing inward under the unbearable pressure, saw it dwindle, wink out. "He's dead," he told Strang. They resumed their prowl along the curving aisle. Mallory reached out to scan the minds of the humans as they huddled over their work, met only blankness cocooned in fields of negative energy. Once a pseudo-human passed them, hurrying in the opposite direction. It was only a half-hearted counterfeit -- the face was a blob, the garments vaguely outlined. Mallory felt the pale heat of its mental aura brush him. He held his barrier steady and the contact was past. The aisle dead-ended at a vertical wall of a gray, papery material. Strang examined it. "It doesn't look very strong. Take a chance on kicking it in?" There were no not-men near. Strang felt over the surface, pushed at it, then swung his boot. The barrier split. Although workers were busy within six feet of them, none showed any awareness that anything unusual was taking place. Strang hammered the material back, dropped to all fours and crawled through. Mallory followed. They were in a long, narrow space. Ducts of lumpy and irregular shape led through it, some branching upward, others down. There was a steady, drumming sound as of the flow of dense fluids driven by busy pumps. The far wall of the chamber was a glossy dark brown. The pipes that passed through it had no visible joints. Mallory tested the strength of the wall. It was as solid as armor plating. "We have to get past it," he said. "We won't make a hole in that." Mallory was examining a duct two feet in diameter. "Check the input end?" They traced the pipe back. Thirty feet upstream it made a right angle turn to rise vertically, passing through an aperture in the ceiling. Strang set himself. Mallory stepped on his back, reached, caught a handhold and pulled himself up. The duct ended at a manifold, where four smallfer pipes came together. Mallory tested them, found an apparent structural weakness at the point where the tributary lines entered the plenum chamber. He wrenched at one. It yielded slightly but did not fracture. He lay beside the hole, lowered an arm; Strang jumped, caught his hand, pulled himself up and through. Mallory took a position on one side of the duct, Strang on the other. They pushed, pulled, alternately, timing their pressures to the natural period of the pipe. The amplitude of the oscillations increased; with a ripping sound, the material parted at the point of juncture; dark green fluid gushed forth, splattering on the floor. They set to work on a second duct, tore it free, then a third. The last of the four came away easily, tearing the top of the plenum out with it. The floor was ankle deep in olive-drab muck that flowed down through the aperture through which they had entered, splattering on the floor below. Slowly, the level in the plenum sank. "We can't wait," Mallory said. "I'm going in." "I'll wait two minutes and follow you," Strang said. into the viscous sump. The fluid was warm, lumpy, like thin gruel. He took a deep breath, released his grip. The fluid rose around him, washed up over his face as he submerged. He sank slowly. The inside of the duct was smooth. He counted silently. At twenty-eight his feet struck a curving suface. He bent, slid down and around the rightangle turn. It was another thirty feet to the barrier wall. Mallory pushed ahead into the horizontal section, feet-first, paddling awkwardly. By thrusting alternately against the side walls he was able to accelerate his progress. The fluid was moving with more force now -- he sensed that the duct had narrowed. He had lost count of the time. Surely it had been more than a minute -- his lungs burned; a rising blackness obscured his thoughts. In a moment he would have to breathe -- but first another few yards -- another few feet -- one more foot. His shoulder thumped the side of the duct. Abruptly a swift current was sucking at him. He locked his throat, concentrated his waning control on the single concept of not allowing his lungs the The support dropped from beneath him. The pressure was gone. He fell, struck, was sliding across a smooth floor, snorting to clear his mouth and nostrils of a cloying reek as of stale bread multiplied a thousand times. He came to rest on his face, groping for traction on a slippery surface. IF The air was steaming hot, filled with duckings and gurglings as of bubbling tar. It was difficult to breathe. Mallory coughed, spat pasty nutrient material from his mouth, cleared his eyes. The space in which he found himself was almost totally dark. A faint glow from an obscure source showed him a vast, swollen, spongy mass that he had seen before in a dark vision gleaned from an alien mind. He reached out, sensed for a moment a play of pseudolight in patterns of not-color across a convoluted surface of pure mind-stuff. Then an impact like an ice avalanche struck him, smashed him into dust, whirled the dust away into timeless infinity. ness, afloat on a sea of nontime, non-space. Far away, like memories of a forgotten childhood, lights and sounds moved with the bustle and clamor of great events reaching crisis -- but not here. He was alone, paralyzed, without senses or sensations. Except for the agonizing awareness of total defeat. Like a falling man, Mallory reached out for contact -- for any point of reference with which to relate himself. He sensed a hint of texture, an impression of structure like the grain in wood. Pressure counter to the grain met total resistance. He tried to reorient himself, reach out parallel to the laminar polarity of the enveloping inhibitory field. cacyphony of sight smell sound touch -- a blended kaleidoscope of multi-ordinal sense impressions that sleeted at him like interlaced blizzards of color, pitch, texture, stench. He could perceive a great, pulsing glow that spread from zenith to nadir, aswarm with clustered, hurrying points of vivid white and other lesser but more variegated more distant from the nucleus of the array. In the flow and churn of pure energy below beside around him he perceived an evolving pattern of interlocking complexity building inexorably toward completion and consummation. Like a driver on a multilaned freeway, he assessed the shifting, jockeying flow of intermingling forces which maintained the developing but ever-balanced equation. He sensed the vast energies flowing, saw how they drew on the supportive structure provided by the lesser mind-fields of the ancillary Mone creatures -- recognized the vast intellectual potential created by the linkage of lesser brains to create a superbrain of a capability that was the product, not the sum, of the constituent parts. He scanned the lesser, dimmer individual thought-nexi which had been excluded from the compound mind, recognized them as the stunned, controlled minds of the human workers. In comparison with the concentrated brilliances of the not-men they seemed diffuse, unoriented. Unharnessed. In the instant the concept formed in his mind he knew what he must do. X physical body lying dead -- or dying -- on the feeding-cell floor. It required a major effort to reorient his thinking to the limited dimensions of a physical brain in an organic body, to trace back along the tenuous linkage that bound him to the inert flesh, to shape himself again to conform to a matter-energy shell. He knew an instant of pressure, of constriction... Pain burned in him as if he had plunged into a ladle of molten metal. His lungs heaved. His heart gave a convulsive leap. His hands felt thick and numb. His limbs were cast in lead. His vision was cloudy and blurred. Normal sensation seeped back into his tortured body slowly. After half a minute's breathing -- deep, gasping breaths as though he had run a mile at top speed -- he was able to roll over and sit up. His wristwatch told him that he had been unconscious for just over three minutes. Strang sprawled on the floor six feet away, awash in the greenish slime that still oozed from the duct. Mallory touched his mind -- only a faint, diffuse glow indicated a lingering residual vitality in Strang's individual cells. He channeled energy to Strang's egocenter. After a moment he sensed a weak response. He persevered, felt the mind quicken under his touch. At once he expanded the mind mind interface, creating a point-by-point correspondence that linked his mental field with Strang's. There was no need now for verbalization. In the moment of contact, the Strang mind absorbed in instantaneous gestalt the status-dynamic Mallory presented. As swiftly and completely as a fluid shapes itself to a container, Strang's mind and Mallory's interpenetrated, locked into mutual balance, became one. Mallory was simultaneously aware, on multiple levels, of a multitude of forms and relationships and entropic flows that wove a network encompassing the timespace locus in which he existed; of a precise set of matter energy interlocks that was the Mone; of his IF own impingement on the greater pattern; of the potential implicit in the unorganized play of random energies which flickered peripherally to the central reality-matrix. In immediate, instinctive response he extended his newly augmented sensitivity to the next adjacent human mind-field, probed through the inhibiting control layers to the inner ego-core. Awareness of a woman's selfpicture flooded into his mind -- all the memories and complexities of a full human existence were comprehended in a single polyordinal gestalt. For a fractional instant he sensed her amazement at the strange touch invading her identity, the beginning of a flash of atavistic fear; then he had shunted aside her feeble ego-assertion reflex, added the computational and conceptualizing circuitry of her mind to the Mallory Strang duality. Again the level of illumination rose. New vistas of ever-expanding, ever-convoluting mind-structure slid into focus. With new sureness, the compound mind touched half a dozen more brains in swift succession, adding their powers to the growing complex. The seventh mind broke like a bubble -- its colors faded, dissipated, were gone. The Mallory overmind reached farther. Two more minds were added. The tenth resisted violently, fighting like a drowning man against submergence -- impatiently, the newborn thought-creature that had been Mallory overrode the fragile defenses, engulfed the central thought-node. He paused, assessing his new self-awareness, sensing the expansion of his capabilities to encompass the hundred-fold increase in computer capacity. For the first time now he was able to integrate the entirety of the Mone mind structure and his own relationship thereto. The shock of what he saw rocked him to the basic suture of the initial StrangMallory union. My God -- I'm like a chip in a mi llr ace compared with that... The thought flashed and was dismissed in the immediacy of his reaction. He launched himself outward on all fronts, sweeping in the resident egos as rudely as a starving man shelling oysters, erecting a defensive mind-structure with frantic haste. He felt only a remote pang -- a ghostly echo of a forgotten emotion -- as he recognized the identities of his last acquisitions: Gill -- Randy -- Marla. His outward sweep complete, he paused, consolidating his position. The Mone mind-array seemed to have shrunk somewhat. It no longer loomed like a planet -- but it was a mountain to his boulder. He saw the truncated force-lines that had been sheared by his sudden action, recognized the developing Mone reactionpattern, computed the force and direction of the counter-stroke, reoriented himself, marshaling his defensive capabilities. His Universe burst in an explosion of white fire. around Mallory. The flow of mighty energies roared past and through him like an explosion without end. Out of the chaos he abstracted those qualities from which he was capable of formulating a conceptualization. And he was face to face with strangeness beyond his ability to comprehend. The mind face of the Mone. In a single glimpse that scanned back down the endless avenue of time he saw the dim beginnings of this incredible being; the long, slow evolution of form and structure, the advent of neural responsiveness, the birth of mind, its growth and flowering into a mighty fountain of intellect. He observed as the Mone, achieving direct mental control of the mechanics of genetics and heredity, formed itself for expansion, launched itself on the ages-long campaign of destruction-absorption of competing intellectual species which ended in its sole and undisputed possession of its home galaxy. He was witness as the great intelligence pruned itself, perfecting the purity of its cerebral function, trimming away the extraneous physical bodies which housed the multitudinous facets of its communal personality. The time came when the Mone -- a race implicit in a single, integrated galaxy-spanning thought-complex -- found itself faced with entropic death. Having mastered its environment too perfectly, it faced sensory deprivation of a degree commensurate with its frustrated abilities. Unless new challenges, new spectra cf experience could be found, it was doomed to wither, lose coherence, wink out of existence. The Mone integrated the data, arrived at an inescapable conclusion. In order to retain even an attenuated continuity of awareness, it would have to divest itself of its total victory. It must resume the trappings of physical life, reenter the lists of life-death competition. But it was the sole surviving life in its galaxy, all other forms having been either annihilated or absorbed along the evolutionary paths. The neighboring galaxies must serve as the arena for the .next evolutionary advance of the Mone. Stimulated to a new outpouring of creativity comparable with the vast accomplishments of its youth, the Mone created an infinitely flexible modus operandi. It selected suitable inert minerals. IF shaped them into vessels capable of the long voyage; stocked them with thought-absorbent material of complex structure on which were impressed the cerebral patterns basic to the Mone identity and launched its intellectual offspring in a vast seeding that radiated at light-speed from the home galaxy. And in that instant it comprehended a basic truth of the Universe: having spawned, it must die. The primordial intelligence that had become the Mone knew for one infinitesimal -- and eternal -- increment of time the basic axiom of existence: That which once was is eternal; that which is to be has always been. Then it existed no more. But deep in intergalactic space, each individual repository of the Mone-pattern knew and recognized the extinction of the ancestor-mind and drew from this knowledge a new awareness of the depth of its commitment to the continuity of the parent-concept. Space is vast. One by one the original spore-pods, each receding from all its fellows at a noncomputable velocity -- the sum of lightspeed plus light-speed -- passed out of the awareness-range of the others. Alone in immensity, each fractional simulacrum of the original, faced for the first time with the fact of solitude, reoriented itself -- and reached the identical conclusion: Each was the sole, lone repository of the galaxy-devouring force that was the Mone life-concept. On each devolved the ultimate responsibility for survival of thatwhich-must-not-die. Eons of utter solitude ensued. Mallory was present when at last a star swam close, its gravitational field reaching across dwindling space to awaken the response-pattern of the pod. He followed it, with it participated in the planetary approach, using, by encoded instinct, the versatile organomechanisms designed and created for this moment. He experienced the entry into atmosphere, the gathering of data, extrapolation, reaction: the selection of a precise landing point -- a vacant lot in the inner suburban area of the city of Beatrice. N OW, ensconced on a world inconceivably distant from that which gave it birth, the Mone identity proceeded with thatwhich-must-be-done. The footballsized pod, buried beneath a heap of brick rubble, released the precautionary poisons designed to rid the planet of possible competitive life-forms -- forms capable of physically competing with the embryonic Worker-forms when they first crawled forth to grow to swift adulthood. Within seventy-two hours the wave of death had passed around the globe, vectored not only by natural atmospheric forces but carried by the swift craft on which would-be escapees had fled, carrying their fates with them. Doomed airliners had crashed as their mould. But the deadly spores survived the impacts, were spread again, renewed from each new center of infection. For a week, the local life had survived, fighting back blindly with all the weapons at its comidentified, a counteracting substance devised, emergency programs put in effect for mass production of the antitoxin. The last organized resistance had been the release of a counterphage which spread total destruction over a ten-mile-wide patch of scorched earth surrounding the research station at Point Charlotte, Virginia. Two hours later the Mone had reoccupied the area. Within the inner circle at Beatrice twelve hundred and fifty-one brain-stunned natives had been imprinted with the necessary data to enable them to provide the requisite additional labor for the preparation for the secondary seeding; in a band around the city approximately fifteen miles in width, some hundreds of native survivors existed, free. A sensebarrier was erected to bar them from the next area and the work forward. Supervised by the pseudohuman constructs created for the purpose -- designed to mimic the native workers in order to create the minimal adjustment-gap -- the impressed workers first erected the tower which housed the birthchannel through which the tailored seed of the Mone would be ejected at supersonic speed to enter the jet stream and spread over the world. Then they had been reprogramed to process the specific nutrient molecules required by the growing spore-body -- and at last, in the final phase, to assemble the final genetic increments that would determine the prespawning inprinting with which the myriad offspring would be endowed to best fit them for their task -- the construction of the sites from which a new wave of spore-pods would go forth to infect the galaxy. The maturation of the seed had proceeded smoothly. The precomputed statistical determinations had been satisfied. Imprinting was almost complete; the moment of release approached, when the voracious instinct-appetite would be sated at last. And in this penultimate moment, a curious phenomenon had blossomed on the Mone existence-horizon. IF the great Mone mind had failed utterly to comprehend what was taking place. And then, with a blinding insight that rocked its cosmic image to the core, it had understood. It was not alone. For the first time in all the inconceivable eons since its inception the Mone had encountered an intelligence co-equal and external to itself. The impact of that realization coursed through all of its vast data-collecting and collating capacity like a storm, upsetting the basic theorems of its existence. For an immeasurable instant the great mind teetered on the edge of dissolution: And in that moment Mallory struck. collapses when a single vital pebble crumbles from its base, the immense complexity that was the Mone overbrain began to disintegrate. The far-flung sensory and manipulative fabric split, broke apart, withering back on its sources. The inner network of regulatory and sustaining fieldcircuitry, bereft of input, went into oscillation, disassociated itself into its primitive components and self-destructed. The ego-core, stripped of all sensation and power, closed in on itself, encysted, winked out of existence. In a silence that seemed to reach to the end of infinity the Mallory mind-construct hovered, straining outward, sensing the nearby star-crackle, the remoter hiss of the neighbor-galaxies, the pervasive tone of the over-galaxy. He it withdrew from the brink of mind-shattering emptiness, shaken and awed. In haste heit irised in on the source-point shrinking back and down, compressing, dwindling, fleeing... Pressure, pain, the return of physical sensation. Mallory sat up, rose unsteadily to his feet. Strang groaned and stirred, Mallory squatted beside him. "Wake up," he said, hearing his own voice as an echo from a time and place more remote than the farthest star. "Wake up, Strang. We've won." the exit passage from the inner chamber, made their way out into the workroom and a scene of pandemonium. Over four hundred men and women, released abruptly from the tight mental control that had held them for over three months, with no memories of the lost days, had reacted in their individual ways. Some sat mute and numb. Some had made frantically for the nearest exit. A few had become hysterical. Others had attacked the not-men who wandered, mindless, among them, had torn them into bloodless fragments. Mallory searched through the crowd, failed to find Gill or the children. "Maybe they've gone home," Strang suggested. They left the tower, ignored by the gaunt, ragged, mad-eyed crowd now streaming away across the barren courtyard, staring incredulously back at the tower that had apparently sprung miraculously from the ground overnight. In the street Mallory heard the first screams of those who were beginning at last to understand the full scope of the disaster that had befallen them. A man in the remnants of a gray business suit stood as if stunned before the gutted ruin that had been his newly expanded department store. A woman sat on the front steps of a house, sobbing, holding a mouldy doll in her hands. A hollow-faced teenaged boy walked unsteadily down the middle of the street talking to himself. Gil! was lying face down on the sidewalk leading to the front steps of the house. Mallory turned her over gently. She was barely breathing. "We'd better get her inside," Strang said. His voice seemed to Mallory to come from far away. "Yes." Mallory lifted her, carried her up the steps into the gloom of the curtained living room, along the passage to a bedroom. Strang checked her pulse. "Not good," he said. "Damn it, we need a doctor, Mallory." "Everet," Mallory said. "Get him." He jabbed at the man's mind, implanted the information that Everet's house was three doors away. Strang was staggered by the impact of the invasion of his brain. He looked at Mallory with an expression of amazement tinged with fear. "What -- " he started. Get him. Mallory turned back to Gill, probed delicately at her mind, found it closed and shuttered against him. He stood by the window and stared unseeing at the street. He was distantly aware of Strang's movements. He observed Strang's encounter with the doctor, monitored the conversation: Doctor -- a woman -- Mrs. Mallory. She's in a coma, pulse weak, respiration way down ; cool to the touch. I think she's dying. Later, sir. As soon as I can. There's a young fellow -- badly cut up. Fell into glass. Bleeding like a stuck pig. And John Bates -- broken leg, I think, and probably internal damage. IF It 's just a few doors down, doctor . Can you -- As soon as  can. A boys dying. Mallory thrust through, implanted a command. Everet broke off in mid-sentence, turned, started toward the Mallory house. Half a minute later he entered the room. He glanced at Mallory, went to Gill's side, examined her quickly. "She's in a bad way," he said. His voice was ragged. "Restore her to health," Mallory said flatly. "She's needed." "Of course I'll do what I can." For a few minutes, Everet worked swiftly, preparing and administering two injections. He listened to the woman's heartbeat, shook his head solemnly. "I won't lie to you, Mallory," he said. "I'm afraid we're going to lose her. There's no response. She's sinking." Mallory stood at the bedside. He touched Gill's mind, noting the feebleness of the glow. He reached deep into her brain, found the fading spark that was her life. She stirred faintly in response. He sensed her recognition of him. Gill -- you mustn't die... I tried, Jeff. For your sake and the children's --  tried to go on. But the weight was too much. I had to let go... Live... "Mallory -- are you all right?" Strang's voice rasped at him. He struck the interruption aside, clinging to the fading contact with the diminishing mindglow. You have to live... He sensed her silent cry of pain, her recoil from the power of the mental blow. No... no more... you're not... Jeff... Jeff is gone... all gone... nothing left... And then there was no response from the gray vacancy like cold ashes that occupied the point where the last spark of Gill's life had winked and died. him as he turned, pushed past them. Two small, white-faced people met him in the hall. A long moment passed before he recognized them as Randy and Marla. "Your mother is dead," he said tonelessly and went past them and out into the street. He walked but was unaware of walking. The sun sank. Twilight fell. Here and there the glow of firelight shone through windows. The power had failed at last. A cold wind blew along the dark street. He came to an open field. Moonlight shone whitely on dead grasses, a leafless tree. Stars glared down impersonally from the deep black sky. Without warning, a wave of desolation swept down like a tidal comber and smashed the breath from his lungs. "Alone," he groaned. "Oh, God, so aloire." He felt he was drowning in a bleakness more terrifying than the prospect of death. He fell to his knees, impaled on torment like a worm impaled on a thorn. A soft voice said, "Jeff -- please." Sally kneeled beside him, put her hands on him, held him to her. He pushed her away. "Jeff -- I only meant -- " You think I'm weeping for Gill? His thoughts raged, unspoken, unspeakable. You're wrong. It's not that at all. It's not humanity I weep for -- or anything human... "Jeff -- you look so strange -- " You don't know, you could never understand. No human on earth ever could understand. For one moment -- for one tiny instant -- I held the Universe in my hands and looked across that vastness of space and time and beheld another mind that was my equal. And what did I do? Did I meet it, join it on that level beyond human comprehension? No. It lowered its defenses to me -- and I killed it. It's not Mankind I'm mourning. It's the Mone... Out of darkness, a shaft of light, dazzlingly pure, lanced to the center of Mallory's consciousness. Man, I still live , the voiceless voice of the Mone said. Now may we speak together? without words in a timeless place of pure thought. I did not know, Man. This does not excuse my crime -- nor bring back that which is lost. Yet I would make amends... Mallory strove to penetrate the word-screen, achieve again the one-to-one rapport that he had known in the moment that he had confronted the Mone's naked mind. He found the barrier impenetrable. No, Man -- you are not yet ready to exercise the full powers inherent in your destiny, the Mone admonished him.  blundered when I failed correctly to assess the mental capacity of your race on my first approach -- and again, when I too-quickly opened myself to you. There are powers here which would rend this planet to dust if not controlled. Angered, Mallory strove harder -- and found himself gently seized, held. Man -- you are a young species, inexperienced, still closely linked to material flesh. In your hour of crisis you showed qualities that will one day make you great. But you have much to learn, a long apprenticeship to serve before you evolve so far along the trail as to IF know the true Junction oj mind , the true glory of thought. Mallory would have protested but the Mone went on. Your world has been cruelly depopulated oj your kind by my heedless act but the remaining genetic pool is large enough to restore your numbers in a Jew short millennia. I will provide an adequate number oj lije-artijacts -- like those you destroyed in your Jrenzy but oj Junctional Jorm -- to assist you during your period oj rebuilding. Your cities are in the main intact -- an empty but jruitjul planet awaits you. And perhaps in your rebirth you will escape the errors that marred your jirst rise , as I glimpsed them when our minds met. And as the years oj your primal age pass I will watch over you, guard you jrom dangers without and within, until I have expiated the evil I unwittingly did you. Then I will pass on my way. Perhaps some -- we will meet again as friends and equals among the galaxies. Wait ! Mallory hurled the plea with all the force of his compound mind. But before the echo of the thought had died he had forgotten it. For a moment longer, as his briefly held powers slipped away, he clung to the lingering sense of something sublime, glimpsed once and never seen again. Then that vision, too, was gone. And he was only a man, crouched against the earth that had brought him forth. flowers on her grave. March came with clear skies. The strange, faceless beings who had emerged from the tower -- curiously, no one feared them or recoiled from their appearance -- toiled day and night to restore and rebuild, to farm the abandoned acreage outside the city, to operate the power generating plant, the water system, to staff the hospital. Vines grew up around the tower and wild flowers sprouted along the wall that was crumbling rapidly away. The six hundred and twenty citizens of Earth learned to live again, to pick up the fragments of old relationships, to begin the long process of building new ones. On the first day of April Jeff Mallory and Sally were married in a ceremony attended by the entire population of the world. They held carnival for a day -- then they picked up their tools and returned to the task of forging the future of Man.  found his and kissed it. Raising her head again, not letting go his old thin fingers, she said, "And -- do we not even know your name? I just realized -- the machine said not that you are Alexander -- only that you wish to be known as Alexander!" "This, too, has been done before," the old man said. "There was once a knot so complicated no one could untie it. A man called Alexander rose up, cut it with a sword. To loose the bonds we heedlessly used to hobble the human race -- it seems I, too, must be crude. It is not something I would wish my own name to be remembered for. My second Record." He smiled and gave her hand a final squeeze. "Go, then, my friends -- and remember. Always do the best you can." the door of the great hall, he was sitting calmly with his staff in his hand. And when the hour was up there were no staff or Registry or Alexander -- only a little hot dust drifting on the light of the stars.  much?" "All." "You will not change your mind?" "I will not." "So I see." "Thank you for your offer. It was enticing -- but I must regretfully decline. I think you can find the way out." The man in the book-cluttered room sat quietly in his chair for a long time after his visitor had left. Then he rose, walked to a desk in the corner, took paper from it and a pen and began to write. In the street outside, the visitor looked toward the house he had just left and then toward the dark hills where the evening star now had set and Orion was sinking. He stood there for a long time before he faded like an afterimage and was gone.  IF (Continued from page #) the Editor s seat, I should hope that the magazines' quality will improve in a like fashion. But there are two pieces in the latest IF which get my goat. The first is, unfortunately, your editorial. I don't begrudge Dr. Menzel's conceptions if he means them only as jokes -- but if he actually believes in them, I shudder to think of the names of the farside craters. Mare Elron? Oceanus Flatearthers? Shaver Crater? (Incidentally, Dr. Robert S. Richardson of Griffith Observatory has proposed that a farside crater be named after the late Uncle Willy Ley. He seems to think that the best location for Crater Ley would be near Craters Tsiolkov sky and Jules Verne.) And speaking of Tsiolkovsky -- it was with great dissatisfaction that I muddled through Dr. Tsvetikov's article. Tsiolkovsky was a great rocket pioneer but you must remember that he owed a great deal of his philosophy to the Revolution. I am not condemning you for publishing Communist philosophy. It's always interesting to see what people of other political viewpoints are doing, say I. Now, Tsiolkovsky as a science fiction writer is vastly different from Tsiolkovsky as a rocket man. Isaac Asimov, who came to the U.S. from Russia at the age of three, a great science fiction writer in his own right who has read, with interest, some Soviet Science Fiction (he has contributed introductions to two antholSoviet sf is severely limited when it comes to sociological science fiction. Horace Gold and was originally intended to be a gathering of fresh sociological sf ideas -- it still is, I guess, though most science fiction seems to be somewhat sociological these days. For another thing, I cannot either understand or agree with the "Razve mozhmo somnyevat ' sya " theses. In them, Tsiolkovsky begins with a deceptively simple statement (though it is a statement which, I am told, is some news to most Russians), and then proceeds into an entire series of non sequiturs which seem to me to reflect Tsiolkovsky' s own inferiority complex, combined with the wishful thinking of the Soviet state that " Communism is the best form of government." Tsiolkovsky has used, apparently, the same odd Soviet logic here that enabled Ivan Yefremov to call Murray Leinster a man with the heart of a serpent. But still, as I said, it is always nice to know what the Communists are thinking. This same odd Soviet logic that I mentioned above may perhaps be the reason why Richard Nixon's signature now rests upon the Moon, instead of perhaps Podgornys, Brezhnev's and Kosygin's. I notice from the bar of black on your front cover that IF has skipped another issue. It is sad to see a magazine skip two issues in one year, because IF hasn't missed one since Sepearly #'s -- before it was finally resurrected by Street and Smith. sue, too. Maybe two issues -- I haven't the August one, and the Sunset Distributors, hell take them, have a favorite sport of delaying science fiction magazines to Greater Los an issue since December, #. And I certainly hope that the new format won't cause it to go back on bimonthly format. Heavens! It went monthly only recently! Now, a few suggestions: I congratulate you for giving IF a book column a long-needed letter column. Simply because Horace Gold polled the readers back in #I and decided not to include one is no reason why there cannot be one now. Maybe you could start a sort of story-review feature rated by the Readers, where we Humble People could make our preferences and desires known to the Editor. This isn't an original idea, but the person who first used it uses it to this day, so it must be a successful idea. Also, please bring back the SF Now, about authors : it would be nice if you could round up the following authors in the next year or so: Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein, and Arthur C. Clarke. They are obviously the Big Three Science Fiction Writers In The World, and not much of their writing has appeared in recent months. And, of course, fiction by such other greats as del Rey, Anthony, Anderson, Simak, Laumer, Herbert, Brunner, Budrys, Clement, Ellison, Dickson, Garrett (hey! I'm runnin ' outa space!), Leiber, McCaffrey, Leinster, Niven, Panshin, Zelazny and so many others whose names I momentarily forget. Sure, you can print stuff by such trite and unexperienced hacks as Tepper, but just as long as you've got the good writers -- In closing, I would like to reiterand IF will continue to be Two Great Magazines. In the more recent days, Pohl catered too much to ' the mothers of some of the readers," and all too often had an artist do a cover, and then commissioned a writer to write a story to fit the cover. I hope that this last practice will be abolished completely -- after all, the cover of a magazine is intended to be an artist's image of something originally described in words -- not just any wildlooking thing that the artist conjures up out of nowhere, and to which the poor writer must confine his work. But I have to stop somewhere, and it might as well be here. Good luck! M. B. Tepper Santa Monica, Calif. And luck to you, M.B. You and I will get along -- you're one of the people an editor works for. When you for me -- dig it out of yourself and pitch to the readers. You know them. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: more than ten years, I feel as though the new Dune story by Frank Herbert. I used tremendous restraint and did not start the story in July. Then no August issue, not even one on the newsstands.  have written once and received jio answer of any sort. All I really want is a copy of part II of Dune Messiah. Is that really too much to request? and I will still love you despite the mixup in August. Harriette Schapiro San Diego, California your way -- and my love, too. You're my kind and so is the next guy. Why don't you two say hello? Dear Mr. Jakobsson: You have the most miserable subscription service of any sf magazine. Perhaps if you told us in the current issue when the next issue will be out you could relieve yourself of some very annoying letters. Mark Lee Orange, Conn. P.S.: An IF subscriber and proud of it! And I'm proud of you. Subscription has been notified. Dear Editor: The two worst mistakes you made perhaps you could take thirty pages You see, we were all very proud of having the largest magazine around and we've just got to get it back. Taking the illustrations away was the next one. They really added a lot to the story -- especially with artists like Morrow and Reese (the only things I liked about the Spork stories were the illustrations). In reply to Anne Me Caffrey's letter (September issue): why did you take Gaughans poetic illustration from Hue  Cry? You said you would keep the features. And what happened to Authorgraphs and SF Calendar (I didn't care for IF -- and When? In closing -- how about lining up a Zelazny serial? A fine writer. Does he have a book out that didn't win an award? Craig Grant Saskatchewan, Canada You wrote some time ago. How do you like our looks now? Despite the fewer pages you're getting as much reading matter as ever. Type size does it. The reason for the # pages in mechanical one -- to hit our schedules now that we're underway we have to be processed together at the bindery. have an entirely new look and will or pages for that matter. The Calendar is back and Authorgraphs will appear when authors have something to say they can't express in their stories. The new Hue and Cry heading was designed by Brian Gaughan, Jack Gaughan's young son. Jack feels, and I agree, that it too has poetry -- the poetry of reality and tomorrow. Dear Editor: and IF as good (if not better -- I was impressed with the last few and coming editions ) as it was before. As my contribution to this --  would like to suggest that you keep publishing the authors that you have been, especially Robert Sil verb erg and Larry Niven. And get some stories by Zelazny, Harlan Ellison and some long work by Samuel Delany. He is the world's best sf author. ) IF are far better than any other magazine in the field. I hope adding, another won't force you to print worse stories. Will you publish all the Hugo and Nebula winners to date and the guests of honor at the conventions? And for your #th-anniversary issue, how about getting stories from the main New Wave authors? I have just finished reading Starchild by Frederik Pohl and Jack Williamson and  was quite surprised to find two of Larry Niven's main themes, the body banks and currant addiction, in the book. Is it actually Fred Pohl who thought of these and suggested them to Niven? Good luck in the coming year -- and keep Hue and Cry. Jon Raz Berkeley, California Ideas, like seeds, travel on the wind -- and no two writers handle them alike. Usually there's no connection -- several authors may hit on similar themes independently. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: #, I would like to make a few comas to what I would like to see retained and what  would not like to see any more. First of all, please maintain the listing of sf conventions, etc. in IF. This is invaluable and takes up very little .space. Secondly, the Authorgraphs and Galaxy's Stars are interesting, at least to someone who's been reading sf long enough to wonder whether or not SF writers are really human.  enjoy them immensly. I hesitate to say keep Algis Budrys as book reviewer -- there have been review was the best thing in it. But  do miss his fiction. (I think that's a left-handed compliment to Budrys.) There have been many complaints used for printing. Personally, I like it as is.  would like to see a lot less serials. I seem to be alone in this, too. And, for God's sake, no more of those damn science nonfact articles. Finally, I hope you will continue the yearly contest that Fred Pohl initiated last year. And please include me in the next mailing of ballots. Grant Carrington North Haven, Conn. Okay. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I found the IF first writer. Jack L. Alston, to be a fine and promising beginner. Though he was a little sketchy on technicalities (such as how the hell did he get off that sun?), Alston seemed very original in his details -- a captivating imagination. Please print him in the future. Joseph Zabel Youngstown, O. worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no co mmitm ents. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art. Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A; E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Leigh Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity.  r #-I fromMoldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not nigged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... #. # #-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and damned before it was , even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# was he riding in a # Willys-Knight? If he was dead why wasn't he beginning a chilly half-life in the year #? And Gene Runciter-r-murdered -- but sending him eerie messages from beyond the grave? Everywhere and anywhere Joe turned, in sky-writing, on a traffic ticket, graffiti, matchbook and did Joe really want to know the answer? Read this exciting, new novel that starts as an important Luna Mission and ends as a living or dying diabolical nightmare. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich most make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's light for survival. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# C. M. Kombluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets. will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests. The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # .# S-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... #. # S-# W. Aldiss. Collected for the first time... the best SF stories of #...Asimov, Sheckley, MacDonald, Leiber... plus # other exciting stories... and, cyear, #: A Space Odyssey. This rich anthology of the year's most exciting stories from the best SF bookshelf. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# Heinlain'a Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that i fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessary sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi# pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Office, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name  address I have circled. S-l S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# Name Address City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add # # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.)  , 't    "  x   ""  , '  ' , .   .  m     . ... VL .   ...   An exciting collection of stories about androids -- mechanical men and women so realistic Matheson, Charles Beaumont and other sci-fi greats. # Compiled and Edited by George W. Earley with an Introduction by Ivan T. Sanderson # pages -- # A Space-Age Thriller by Richard M. Garvin  Edmond G. Addeo thriller, you'll meet the man who guards this secret with his life, his brother who dares to manding officer! # A Science-Fiction Suspense Thriller by Richard Garvin  Edmond E. Addeo When Communist China develops a weapon capable of destroying objects in the air-operated entirely by parapsychology, the existence of the world hangs in the balance! Immediately the US rushes into action in a desperate attempt to stave off the holocaust. Involved are niques; spy schools and death-defying action. An action adventure story you won't be able to leave until the last page ! # # Park Ave., Manhasset, N.Y. # Calif. Res. Add # Sales Tax  Include Your Zip Code Number Stobert A. fmhen fame a desperate race to print by Sturgi the sun. Pub. ed. Anderson, oth S# Pub. ed. # ddress...State m under #, parent must sign here. (Offer good in U.S. A. only) Poul Anderson. # uel R. Delaney, slons. Anthology of wars in the future Battle between # original stories... nuclear... inalien worlds and never before in the FaD of Nfefci. # stories. "I n Long out of print! ly real." Two works by auTimes. Now # stories. "Intense#  so why was ly real." N. Y. he in # And hit how could his dead rS rar I I u I nuw tuuw ms ucau #-S# thor of #. Pub. movie! Pub. ed friend talk? Pub. ed. # # ed. ## Out of This World ou are invited to explore the reath-taking world of Scince Fiction now, under this rial offer. Take any # volmes on this page worth up ) # in original pubshers' editions for only # with trial membership. Each month new club selecons of fiction and fact are escribed to you in advance. Entertainment Though these volumes sell for #, # or more inoriginal publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping and handling. (You may choose an extra value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept four books during the coming year. Cancel anytime thereafter. lease accept my application for membership in the Science iction Book Club and rush the # books whose numbers I jve printed below. Bill me only #, plus shipping and indling, for all #. Then every month, send me the Club's ee bulletin, "Things to Come", which describes coming lections. For each book I accept, I will pay only #, us shipping and handling. Occasional extra-value selecans are priced slightly higher. I need take only four books the coming year and may resign any time thereafter. ictory package, I may return it in # days, pay nothing, ve nothing, and my membership will be canceled. #. The Found#. #: A Space #. I, Robot, by  Ion Trilogy, by Odyssey by Arthur Isaac Asimov. Isaac Asimov. The Clarke. # men and Long out of print, ends of the galaxy computer trigger "An enticing thrillrevert to barbarism, cosmic "booby er."-N. Y. Times. Pub. ed. # trap". Pub. ed. # Pub. ed. # #. Omnivore. #. October the #. A Treasury of Piers Anthony. By First is Too Late, Great Science Flcwhat trick did the by Fred Hoyle, tlon. #-volume set. # scientists escape Solar beams play # pages. Counts Nacre when # havoc with time on as one book. Pub. others failed? earth. Pub. ed. # ed. # The first human born on Mars was a "grok" specialist! pon in Valentine Michael Smith's arsenal... a secret that made him irresistible to women but a bitterly hated enemy to the establishment. And all he wanted to do was reform an immoral, troubled world by bringing it peace and tranquility. Some reform! Some revolution! But that's why Robert Heinlein's bestcoming the number one underground novel on virtually every college campus in the country. Now take it, if you wish, as one of your # introductory books for only I with trial membership. Send no money-mail coupon today! The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to take Any # "" for only when you join and agree to accept only four books during the coming year.  the magazine of alternatives the # Do you have a restless urge to write? If you do, here is an opportunity for you to take the first important step to success in writing Bennett Cerf, the distinguished publisher, is a member of the Guiding Faculty of the Famous Writers School. There's something different about people who feel the urge to write. They have a spiritual hunger that sets them apart -- even from family and friends. If you have known this burning need to write, you, too, may have the gift successful authors possess. They know that this restless urge for self-expression is perhaps the most important ingredient of writing success. But, they realize it can waste away if you don't know how to get started writing, or if you hesitate to try. Several years ago a group of famous authors including Rod Serling, Faith Baldwin, Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, and several others joined forces to start the Famous Writers School. They poured everything they know about writing into a remarkable new kind of professional training course which trains you at home in your spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing. Then you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice. Each of your assignments is examined by an instructor who is a professional writer or editor. He goes pver your work word by word, blue-penciling changes right on your manuscript. Then he returns it to you with a long letter of advice on how to improve your writing. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to hundreds of publications. Free Aptitude Test offered To find out if you, too, have writing ability worth developing, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing aptitude -- you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. I ! Famous Writers School j Dept. W-# j Westport Connecticut #  I want to know if I have writing aptitude I worth developing. Please mail me, I without obligation, your Aptitude Test  and illustrated brochure. ! Mr. I Mrs Age j Miss Circle one please print  Street j City I State Zip  Accredited by the Accrediting Commission I of the National Home Study Council. January, # Vol. #, No. I lsMia# Cjler Jakobsson, iditor Prederik Pohl, Editor Emeritus Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Lester del key. Feature Editor I. C. Murphy, Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, Nevw York, N.Y. #. #c per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright  # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. I'vjeot a surprise Toau I ifiruc # T#a#vykf . Wu(c, vwy voi-fe ae vyi#vvMiav Meiai. C# arranging reservations, packing luggage, carrying it out to the car and driving to the airport, I will engage myself in the important business of oiling my fountain pen and setting down these notes. You've never been to a sciencefiction convention before, have you, my little Diary? I can tell, because you are so clean and spotless and undamaged -- as fresh as the day I stole you from the dime store. After this convention you will look different, believe me. What is a World Science Fiction Convention? Well, it's not a regional convention, where science-fiction fans foregather with writers and editors and publishers and artists from their own section of the country. The World Convention is big. It draws attendance from all over the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. It's an annual affair, sponsored by a fan group located in a city which won a bid to stage the gettogether at the previous convention. This year the World-Con is being held in ' St. Louis, and that's where we're heading. So fasten your seat-belt, dear diary, and off we go. Cooperate by recording the words I put down in you and I promise you'll wind up immortaliz in the pages of  magazine, right next to some Jack Gaughan' artwork. Trust me. Later. The first pro I met on the flight was Joyce Muscat. The first fan, Alan Foster, who sat with my wife and myself during the flight. I spent most of my time talking with Alan while my wife read Nicholas And Alexander, the biography of the Czar of Russia and his Empress. I guess she thinks that learning about riots, revolutions and assassinations is good preparation for the Convention. Somewhere along the line they served us breakfast. "These must be powdered eggs," Alan told me. I nodded. "What else do you expect from powdered chickens?" I inquired. As Alan digested this bit of impeccable logic -- along with his eggs -- we began our descent upon St. Louis. The first sight of the city from the air came as something of a surprise to me. I've heard o( the St Louis Blues, but St. Louis actually looks green; at least from a height of ten thousand feet. And so do I. At ground level the city is hot and humid. We made our way to the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel apd discovered that it's really two hotels connected by a hyphen -- and a passageway from the lobby of one to the elevator bank of the other. Getting from room to roomis going to mean a lot of walking (Please turn to page #) No one had ever seen a Caleban. And now McKie had to love one! chino Furuneo. He had reminded himself of this on the ride into the city to make the long-distance call -- he clung to his identity now. It was wise to firm up the ego under the circumstances. He was sixty-seven years old and could remember many who had lost their selves in the sniggertrance of communication between star systems. But more than the cost and the mind-crawling sensation of dealing with a Taprisiot transmitter, was at stake here -- and, Furuneo did not feel he could trust anyone else to speak to Jorj X. McKie. He stood -- with the two enforcers he had brought along to guard his privacy -- in the reception room of the Taprisiot breeding center -- one of only about twenty known to exist in the universe. The room was no more than fifteen meters wide, perhaps thirty-five long... Its tan walls were oddly, randomly pitted. A high bench occupied three fourths of one long wall. Multifaceted rotating lights above it cast patterned shadows onto the bench and the Taprisiot on it. Taprisiots came in odd shapes like sawed off lengths of burned conifers, stub limbs jutting every which way, needlelike speech appendages fluttering even when the creatures remained silent. This one's skidfeet beat a nervous rhythm on the bench. For the third time since entering, Furuneo asked, "Are you the transmitter?" No answer. Taprisiots were like that. One of the enforcers behind Furuneo cleared his throat. "Looks like it's gonna be a long wait for this Tappy." Furuneo nodded. He had learned several degrees of patience on his way up the ladder to his present Msition as Planetary Agent for the Bureau of Sabotage. He knew his only recourse now was to wait quietly. Taprisipts took their own time about anything and everything -- and without a Taprisiot transmitter one did not make real-time calls across interstellar space. Strange, this Taprisiot talent -- the sensational press abounded with theories on how they communicated. Furuneo's belief was that Taprisiots distorted space in a way similar to that of a Caleban jumpdoor, sliding between the dimensions. But whatever Taprisiots did to make a call, one thing was certain -- it involv the human pineal gland or the equivalent among other sentients. "Putcha, putcha, putcha," the Taprisiot on the bench said, squeaking its speech needles. Furuneo asked again, "Are you the transmitter?" "Putcha, putcha, putcha," the Taprisiot repeated. "This is a remark I will now translate in the only way that may make sense to ones like yourselves of Sol Earth ancestry. What I said was: 'I question your sincerity.' " F uruneo moved to a position below the bench. "I wish to make a call to Saboteur Extraordinary Jorj X. McKie," he said. "Your robogreeter recognized and identified me and took my creditchit. Are you the transmitter?" "Where is this Jorj X. McKie?" the Taprisiot asked. "If I knew. I'd be off to him in person through a Jumpdoor," Furuneo said. "This is an important call. Are you the transmitter?" "Date, time and place," the Taprisiot requested. Furuneo sighed and relaxed. He glanced back at his enforcers, motioned them to take up stations at the room's two doors, waited while they obeyed. From here on he wanted no outside interruptions. He turned back, gave thd Taprisiot the required local coordinates. "You will sit on floor," the creature said. Furuneo silently thanked his stars. Once a transmitter had led him to a mountainside in wind and driving rain and made him stretch out, head lower than feet, before opening the overspace contact. It had had something to do with "refining the imbediQent." Furuneo sat. "Close eyes," the Taprisiot squeaked. Furuneo obeyed. "Think of contact," the Taprisiot ordered. Furuneo thought of Jorj X. McKie, building the image in his mind -- squat little man, angry red hair, face like a disgruntled frog. Contact beganwith tendrils of cloying awareness. Furuneo became in his owa mind a red flow sung to the tune of a silver lyre. His body went remote. Awareness IF rotated above a strange landscape, its horizons slowly turning. He sensed the stars engulfed in lonli ness. The thought exploded in Furuneo's awareness. He recognized it at once. Contactees frequently resented the call. They could not reject it, no matter how inopportune the timing -- but they could make the caller feel their displeasure. It never Jails! It never Jails! McKie would be jerked to full inner awareness now, his pineal gland ignited by the long-distance contact. Furuneo settled himself to wait out the curses. When they had subsided sufficiently he identified himself. regret any inconvenience I may have caus," he said. "But the max-alert failed to say where you could be located.You must know I would not have called unless it were important." A more or less standard opening. "How the hell do I know whether your call's important?" McKie demanded. "Stop babbling and get on with it." This was an unusfual extension of anger even for the volatile McKie. "Am I interrupting something important?" "I'm standing here in a Telicourt, getting a divorce," McKie said. "Can you imagine what a great time everyone here's having, watching me mumble to myself in a sniggertrance? Get to the business." "A Caleban Beachball washed ashore last night below Division City here on Cordiality," Furuneo said. "In view of all the deaths and insanity and the max-alert from the Bureau, I thought I'd better call you at once. It's still your case, isn't it?" "Is this your idea of a joke?" McKie demanded. In lieu oj red tape Furuneo cautioned himself, thinking of the Bureau maxim. It was a private thought, but McKie no doubt was catching the mood of it. "Well?" McKie demanded. Was McKie deliberately trying to unnerve him? Furuneo wondered. How could the Bureau's prime function -- to slow the processes of government -- remain operative on an internal matter such as this call? Agents were duty bound to encourage anger in government in order to expose the unstable, tempermental types, the ones who lacked the necessary personal control and ability to think under psychic stress -- but why carry this duty over to a call from a fellow agent? Some of these thoughts obviously bled through the Taprisiot transmitter because McKie reflected them, enveloping Furuneo in a mental sneer. "You lotsa time unthink yourself," McKie said. Furuneo shuddered, recovered his sense of self. He recognized a close call -- he had almost lost his ego. ,The veiled warning in McKie's words had alerted him, allowing recovei#. Furuneo began casting about in his mind for another Interpretation of McKie's reaction. Interrupting the divorce could not account for it. If the stories were true, the ugly little agent had been married fifty or more times. Are you still interested in the Beachball?" Furuneo venturi. "Is there a Caleban in it?" "Presumably." "You haven't investigated?" McKie's tone suggested Furuneo had been entrusted with a most crucial operation and had failed because of inherent stupidity. Now fully alert, Furuneo said, "I acted as my orders instructed." "Orders!" "I'm supposed to be angry, isn't that right?" "I'll be there as fast as I can get service -- within eight standard hours at the most," McKie said. "Your orders, meanwhile, are to keep that Beachball under constant observation. The observers must be hopped up on angeret, Its their only protection." "Constant observation," Furuneo said. "If a Caleban emerges, you're to detain it by any means possible," "A Caleban -- detain it?" "Engage it in conversation, request its cooperation -- anything," McKie said. His mental emphasis added that it was odd a Bureau agent should have to ask about throwing a monkey wrench into someone's activities. "Eight hours," Furuneo said. "And don't forget the angeret" he repeated. planet of Tutalsee, took an hour to complete his divorce, then returned to the float home he had moored beside the island of love flowers. Even the nepenthe of Tutalsee had failed him, McKie thought. His marriage had been wasted effort -- this wife hadbeen his fifty-fourth, somewhat lighter of skin than any of the others and more than a bit of a shrew. It had not been her first marriage and she had shown early suspicions of McKie's secondary motives. She had already vacated the float home and McKie could sense the living entity's resentment. He had shattered the idyl the float home had been conditioned to create -- the home would return to its former affability only when he, too, was gone. The floats were gentle creatures, susceptible to sentient irritation. McKie packed. He examined his toolkit -- a selection of stims, plastipicks, explosives in various denominations, raygens, multigoggles, pentrates, a wad of uniflesh, solvos,miniputer, Taprisiot life monitor, holoscan blanks, rupters, comparators all in order. The toolkit was a fitted wallet -- he concealed it in an inner pocket of his jacket. He stowed a few changes of clothing into a single bag, consigned the rest of his possessions to BuSab storage, left them for pickup in a sealpack on a couple of chairdogs. They appeared to share the float home's resentment. They remained immobile even when he patted them affectionately. IF Too bad. McKie sighed, took out his S'eye key. This jump was going to cost the Bureau megacredits. Cordiality lay halfway across the universe. Jumpdoors still seemed to be working all right but it disturbed McKie that he must make this journey by a means the Calebans had provided. Eerie situation. S'eye jumpdoors had become so common that mqst sentients accepted them without question. McKie had even shared the common acceptance before the maxalert. Now he wondered at himself. Casual acceptance demonstrated the adaptability of rational thought -- a common characteristic of all sentients. The Caleban artifact had been known to the Confederated Sentients for only nineteen standard years. But in that time exactly eightythree Calebans were known to have contacted Consent -- the first one with his gift of the jumpdoor. And eightytwo others. McKie flipped the key in his hand, caught it deftly. Why had the Calebans refused to part with their gift unless everyone agreed to call it S'eye? What was so important about a name? I should be on my way, McKie told himself. Still, he delayed. Eighty-three Calebans. The max-alert had been explicit in its demand for secrecy regarding the outlined problem -- Calebans had been disappearing, one by one. Disappearing -- if that was what the phenomenon could be called. Each disappearance had been accompanied by a massive wave of sentient deaths and insanity. No question why the problem had been dumped in BuSab's lap instead of onto some police agency. Government fought back wherever it could -- powerful men hoped to discredit BuSab. McKie found his own share of disturbance in wondering about the hidden possibilities in the selection of himself as the sentient to tackle this. Who hates me? He used his personally tuned key in the jumpdoor. The door began to hum with its aura of terrifying energies. Its vortal tube snappy open. McKie tensed himself for the syrupy resistance to jumpdoor passage, stepped through the tube. It was like swimming in air become molasses -- perfectly normal appearing air. rather ordinaiy office -- the usual humdrum whirldesk, alertflicker light patterns cascading from the ceiling, a view out one transparent wall onto a mountainside. In the distance the rooftops of Division City lay beneath dull gray clouds. A luminous silver sea stretched to' the horizon beyond. McKie's implanted brainclock told him the time was late afternoon, the eighteenth hour of the twentysix-hour day. This was Cordiality, a world two hundred thousand light-years from Tutalsee's planetary ocean. The jumpdoor' s vortal tube snapped shut behind him with a crackling sound like the discharge of electricity. A faint ozone smell was detectable in the room. The room's standard-model chairdogs had been well trained to comfort their masters, McKie noted. One of them nudged him behind the knees until he dropped his bag and took a reluctant seat. The chairdog began massaging his back. Obviously it had tn instructed to make him comfortable while someone was summoned. McKie tun himself to the faint sounds of normalcy around him. Footsteps of a sentient could be heard in an outer passage. A Wreave by the sound of it -- the peculiar dragging of the heel on a favored foot. A conversation was going on somewhere -- McKie could make out a fewLinguagalach words. His fidgeting set the chairdog into a burst of rippling movements to soothe him. Enforced idleness nagged at him. Where was Furuneo? McKie chided himself. Furuneo probably had many planetary duties as BuSab agent here. And he could not know the full urgency of the problem. This might be one of the planets where BuSab. was spread thin. The gods of immortality knew the Bureau could always find work. McKie began reflecting on his role in the affairs of sentiency. Once, long centuries past. Consents with a psychological compulsion to "do good" had captured the government. Unaware of the writhing complexities -- the mingled guilts and self-punishments beneath their compulsion -- they had eliminated virtually all delays and red tape from government. The great machine with ts blundering power over sentient life had slipp into high gear, moved faster and faster. Laws had been conceived and passed in the same hour. Appropriations had flashed into being and were spent in a fortnight. New bureaus for the most improbable purposes had lea into existence and proliferated like some insane fungus. Governnient had become a great destructive wheel without a governor, whirling with such frantic speed that it spread chaos wherever it touched. In desperation a handful of sentients had conceived the Sabotage Corps to slow that wheel. There had been bloodshed and other degrees of violence but the wheel had been slowed. In time the Corps had become a Bureau, and the Bureau was whatever it was today -- an organization headed into its own corridors of entropy, a group of sentients who preferred subtle diversion to violence but were prepared for violence when the need arose. right. His chairdog became still. Furuneo entered, brushing a hand through the band of gray hair at his left ear. His wide mouth was held in a straight line, a suggestion of sourness about it. "You're early," he said, patting a chairdog into place across from McKie and seating himself. "Is this place safe?" McKie asked. He glanced at the wall where the S' eye had disgorged him. The jumpdoor was gone. "I've moved the door back downstairs through its own tube," Furuneo said. "This place is as private as I can make it." He sat back, waiting for McKie to explain. McKie nodded toward the transparent wall and the distant sea. "That Beachball still down there?" "My men have orders to call me it makes any move," Furuneo said. "It washed ashore just like I said, imbedded itself in a rock outcropping and hasn't moved since." "Imbedded itself?" "That's how it seems." ' "No sign of anything in it?" "Not that we can see. The Ball does appear to be a bit -- banged up -- some pitting and a few external scars. What's this all about?" "No doubt you've heard of Mliss Abnethe?" "Who hasn't?" "She recently spent some of her "Hire a -- " Furuneo shook his head. "I didn't know it could be done." "Neither did anyone else." "I read the max-alert," Furuneo said. "Abnethe's connection with the case wasn't explained." -- "She's a bit kinky about floggings, you know." "I thought she was treated for that." "Yeah, but it didn't eliminate the root of her problem. It just fixed her so she couldn't stand the sight of a sentient suffering." "So?" "Her solution, naturally, was to hire a Caleban." "As victim?" Furuneo was beginning to understand, McKie saw. Someone had once said the problem with Calebans was that they presented no patterns yoii could recognize. This was true, of course. If you could imagine an actuahty, a being whose presence could not be denied but who left your senses dangling every time you tried to look at it -- then you could imagine a Caleban. They're shuttered windows opening onto eternity... McKie had attended every Bureau lecture and briefing about Calebans. He tried to recall one of those sessions now, prompted by a . nagging sensation that it had contained something of value to his present problem. It'd been something about "communications difficulties within an aura of affliction." The precise content eluded him. Odd, he thought. It was as though the Calebans' crumbled projection created an effect on senr tieht memoiy akin to their effect on sentient vision. Here lay the true source of sentient uneasiness about Calebans. Their artifacts were real -- the S'eye jumpdoors, the Beachballs in which they were reputed to live -- but no one had ever really seen a Caleban. F uruneo, .watching the fat little gnome of an agent sit there thinking, recalled the snide story about McKie, that he'd been in BuSab since the day before he was born. "She's hired a whipping boy, eh?" Furuneo asked. "That's about it." 'The max-alert spoke of deaths, insanity -- " "Are all your people dosed with angeretT McKie asked. "I got the message, McKie." "Good. Anger seems to afford some protection." "What exactly is going on?" "Calebans have been -- vanishing," McKie said. "Every time one of them goes, there are quite a few deaths and other unpleasant effects -- physical and mental crippling, insanity -- " Furuneo nodded in the direction of the sea. McKie shrugged. "We'll have to go take a look. The hell of it is, until your call there seemed to be only one Caleban left in the universe, the one Abnethe hired." "How're you going to handle this?" "That's a beautiful question." "Abnethe's Caleban," Furuneo said. "Does it have anything to say by way of explanation?" "Haven't been able to interview it," McKie said. "We don't know where she's hidden herself -- or it." "Really don't know?" Furuneo blinked. "Well, cordiality is pretty much of a backwater." "That's what I've been thinking. You said this Beachball was a little the worse for wear?" "That's #, isn't it." "Another oddity among many." McKie frowned. "They say a Caleban doesn't get very far from its Ball," Furuneo said. "And they like to park them near water." "How much of an attempt did you make to communicate?" "The usual. HowM you find out about Abnethe hiring a Caleban?" "She bragged to a friend who bragg to a friend who -- and one of the other Calebans dropped a hint before disappearing." "Any doubt the disappearances and the rest of it are tied together?" "Let's go knock on this thing's door and find out," McKie said. II had adopted an early attitude of resentment toward BuSab. "They use you," she had protested. McKie considered her words now as he and Furuneo sped by groundcar toward the Cordiality coast. How arc they using me this time? Setting aside the possibility that he had been offered up as a sacrifice, many possibilities remained in reserve. Was his legal training needed? Or had the assignment been prompted by his unorthodox approach to inter-spedes relationships? Obviously they entertained some hope for a spedal sort of official sabotage -- but what sort? Why had his instructions been so incomplete? You will seek out and contact the Caleban which has been hired the Statler Hilton, Boston. For information; Anthony Lewis, # Unity Avenue, Belmont, Mass. #.  Hilton Inn, San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests of Honor: Miriam Allen de Ford and E. Hoffman Price. Fan Guest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: S# .# now, # after January #st, # at the door. For information: Quinn Yarbro, # Columsa ##, Berkeley, Galifornih #. At the Royal Hotel, Southampton, England. Guest of Honor: James Blish. Panels, films, lectures and displays. Scheduled speakers: Raymond Fletcher, Member of Parliament who works closely with the Ministry of Technology; Dr. Kit Pedler, lecturer in Opthalmology and TV script writer; ei. al. Most of the British sf writers will be in attendance. For information: don, W.C. #, England. IF by Madame Mliss Abnethe -- or find any other Caleban available for sentient contact -- and you will take appropriate action. Appropriate action? McKie shook his head. "Why did they choose you for this gig?" Furuneo asked. "They know how to use me," McKie said. The groundcar, driven by an enforcer, negotiated a sharp turn and a vista of rocky shore opened before them. Something glittered in the distance among black lava palisades. McKie noted two aircraft hovering above the rocks. "That it?" he asked. "Yes." "What's the local time?" "About two and a half hours to sunset," Furuneo said, correctly interpreting McKie's concern. "Will the angeret protect us if there's a Caleban in that thing and it decides to -- disappear?" the Andrews Hotel, Minneapolis. For information: Jim Young, # Ulysses Street, N.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota #.  Alpin, Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: #. For information and registration -- : Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York #. California. Guest of Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest of Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California #I .  Memberships: Supporting, #; Atgia # #. AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. All convention functions will be held at the Staadthalle in Heidelberg; members of the convention will find accommodations in hotels in town. The accent of this con will be an international one, with fans and pros com; ing from all over the world. Guests-of Tubb (England) and Dr. Herbert W. Lester del Rey. Memberships: # (supporting membership, receive all progress reports), # (attending); after Deceiriber #, #, #. For Germany. Make all checks payable to Mrs. Molly Auler. "I sincerely hope so," McKie said. 'Why didn't you bring us by aircar?" "People here on Cordiality are used to seeing me in a groundcar unless I'm on official business and require speed." "You mean nobody knows about this thing yet?" "Just the coastwatchers for this stretch. And they're on my payroll." "You run a pretty tight operation here," McKie said. "Aren't you afraid of becoming too efficient?" "I do my best," Furuneo said. He tapped the driver's shoulder. The groundcar pulled to a stop at a turnaround which looked down onto a reach of rocky islands and a low lava shelf where the Caleban Beachball had come to rest. "You know, I keep wondering if we really know what those Beachballs are " "They're homes," McKie grunted. "So everybody says." Furuneo got out. A cold wind set his hip aching. "We walk from here," he said. T here were times during the climb down the narrow path to the lava shelf when McKie felt thankful he had been fitted with a gravity web beneath his skin. It would limit his rate of descent to a non-injurious speed if he fell. But it could do nothing about any beating he might receive in the surf at the base of the palisades and it offered no protection at all against the chill wind and the driving spray. He wished he "had worn a heatsuit. "It's colder than I expected," Furuneo said, limping out onto the lava shelf. He waved to the aircars. One dipped its wings, maintained its place in a slow circling track above the Beachball. Furuneo struck out across the shelf and McKie follow, jumped across a tidal pool, blinked and bent his head against a gust of windborne spray. The pounding of the surf on the rocks was loud here. They had to raise their voices to make themselves understood. "You see?" Furuneo shouted. "Looks like it's been . banged around a bit." "Those things are supposed to be indestructible," McKie said. The Beachball was some six meters in diameter. It sat solidly on the shelf, about a half meter of its bottom surface hidden by a depression in the rock, as though it had melted out a resting place. McKie led the way up to the lee of the Ball, passing Furuneo in the last few meters. He stood there, hands in pockets, shivering. The round surface of the Ball failed to cut off the cold wind. "It's bigger than I expected," he said as Furuneo stopped. "First one you've ever seen close up?" "Yeah." McKie passed his gaze across the thing. Knobs and indentations marked the opaque metallic surface. It seemed to him the surface IF variations carried some pattern. Sensors, perhaps? Controls of some kind? Directly in front of him was what appeared to be a crackled mark, perhaps from a collision. It lay just below the surface, presenting no roughness to McKie's exploring hand. "What if they're wrong about these things?" Furuneo asked. "How?" "What if they aren't Caleban homes?" "Don't know. Do you recall the drill?" "You find a nippled extrusion and you knock on it. We tried that. There's one just around to your left." McKie worked his way around in that direction, getting drenched by a wind-driven shower of spray in the process. He reached up, still shivering from the cold, knocked at the indicated extrusion. Nothing happened. "Every briefing I ever attended says there's a door in these things somewhere," McKie grumbled. "But they don't say the door opens every time you knock," Furuneo said. McKie continued working his way aroutid the Ball, found another nippled extrusion, knocked. Nothing. "We tried that one, too," Furuneo said. "I feel like a damn fool." "Maybe there's nobody home." "Remote control?" "Or abandoned -- a derelict." McKie pointed to a thin green line about a meter long on the Ball's windward surface. "What's that?" Furuneo hunched his shoulders against spray and wind, stared at the line. "Don't recall seeing it." "I wish we knew a lot more about these damn things." "Maybe we aren't knocking loud enough." McKie pursed his lips in thought. Presently, he took out his toolkit, extracted a lump of lowgrade explosive. "Go back on the other side," he said. "You sure you ought to try. that?" "No."Well -- " , Furuneo shrugged, retreated around the Ball. McKie applied a strip of the explosive along the green line, attached a time-thread, joined Furuneo. Presently; there came a dull thump that was almost drowned by the surf. McKie felt an abrupt inner silence, found himself wondering: What if the Caleban gets angry and springs a weapon weve never heard of? He darted around to the windward side. ' A n oval hole had appeared above the green line, as though a plug had been sucked into the Ball. "Guess you pushed the right button," Furuneo said. McKie suppressed a feeling of irritation he knew to be mostly angeret effect. "Yeah. Give me a leg up. Okay?" Funineo, he noted, was controlling the drug reaction almost perfectly. With Furuneo's help, McKie clambered into the open port, stared inside. Dull purple light greeted him, a suggestion of movement within the dimness. "See anything?" Funineo called. "Don't know." McKie scrambled inside, dropped to a canted floor. He crouch, studied his surroundings in the purple glow. His teeth chattered from the cold. The room around him apparently occupied the entire center of the Ball -- low ceiling, flickering rainbows against the inner surface on his left, a giant soupspoon shape jutting into the room directly across from him, tiny spools, handles and knobs against the wall on his right. The sense of movement originated in the spoon bowl. Abruptly, McKie realized he was in the presence of a Caleban. "What do you see?" Furuneo called. Without taking his gaze from the spoon, McKie turn his head slightly. "There's a Caleban in here." "Shall I come in?" "No. Tell your men and sit tight." "Right." McKie returned his full attention to the bowl of the spoon. His throat felt dry. He had never before been alone in the presence of a Caleban. This was a position usually reserved for scientific investigators armed with esoteric instruments. "I'm ah -- Jorj X. McKie, Bureau of Sabotage," he said. There was a stirring at the spoon, an effect of radiated meaning immediately behind the movement. I make your acquaintance, McKie found himself recalling Masarard's poetic description in Conversation with a Caleban, Who can say how a Caleban speaks? Masarard had written. Their words come at you like the corruscating of a nine-ribbon Sojeu barber pole. The insensitive say such words radiate, I say the Caleban speaks. When words are sent, is that not speech? Send me your words, Caleban, and  will tell the universe of your wisdom. Having experienced the Caleban's words, McKie decided Masarard was a pretentious ass. TheCaleban radiated. Its communication registered in the sentient mind as sound but the ears denied they had heard anything. It was the same order of effect Calebans had on the eyes. You felt you were seeing something but the visual centers refused to confirm. "I hope my -- ah-I didn't disturb you." I possess no referrent for disturb. You bring a companion?"My companion's outside." Invite your companion, McKie hesitated, then: Furuneo. C'mon in." The planetary agent joined him, crouched at McIGe's left in the purple gloom. "Damn, that's cold out there," Furuneo said. Low temperature and much IF moisture, the Caleban agreed. McKie, having turned to watch Furuneo enter, saw a closure appear from the solid wail beside the open port. Wind, spray and surf were shut off. The temperature in the Ball began to rise. "It's going to get hot," McKie said. "What?" "Hot. Remember the briefings? Calebans like their air hot and dry." He already could feel his damp clothing begin to turn clammy against his skin. "That's right," Furuneo said. "What's going on?" "We've been invited in," McKie said. "We didn't disturb him because he has no referrent for disturb." "Where is he?" "In that spoon thing." "Yeah -- I -- uh -- yeah." You may address me as Fanny Mae, the Caleban said.  can reproduce my kind and answer the equivalents for female. "Fanny Mae," McKie said with what he knew to be stupid vacuity. How could you look at the damn' thing? Where was its face? "My companion is Alichino Furuneo, planetary agent on Cordiality for the Bureau of Sabotage." I make your acquaintance, the Caleban said. Permit an inquiry into the purpose for your visit. Furuneo scratched his right ear. "How are we hearing it?" He shook his head. "I can understand it but -- " "Never mind," McKie said. He warned himself; Gently, now. How do you question one of these things? The insubstantial Caleban presence, the twisting way his mind accepted the thing's words -- it all combined with the angeret in producing irritation. "I -- my orders," McKie said, "are to seek a Caleban employed by Mliss Abnethe." I receive your questions, the Caleban said. from side to side, wondered if it were possible to achieve an angle of vision where the something across from him would assume recognizable substance. "What are you doing?" Furuneo asked. "Trying to see it." You seek visible substance? the Caleban asked. "Uh, yes," McKie said. He was reminded of the original encounter with the Gowachin planets, the first earth-human meeting the first froglike Gowachin and the Gowachin introducing himself as worlds had the Caleban dug up the name Fanny Mae? And why?  produce mirror, the Caleban said, which reflects outward from projection along plane of being, "Are we going to see it?" Furuneo whispered. "Nobody's ever seen a Caleban." "Quiet." A half-meter oval something of green, blue and pink without apparent connection to the emptypresence of the Caleban materialized above the giant spoon. Think of is as stage upon which  present my seljdom, the Caleban said. "You see anything?" Furuneo asked. McKie's visual centers conjured a borderline sensation, a feeling of distant life whose rhythms danced unfleshed within the colorful oval like the sea roaring in an empty shell. He recalled a one-eyed friend and the difficulty of focusing the attention on that lonely eye without being drawn to the vacant patch. "That's the oddest thing I ever saw," Furuneo whispered. "You see it?" McKie described his visual sensation. "That what you see?" "I guess so," Furuneo said. Visual attempt fails,the Caleban said. Perhaps I employ insufficient contrast. Wondering if he could be mistaken, McKie thought he detected a plaintive mood in the Caleban's words. Was it possible Calebans disliked not being seen? "It's fine," McKie said. "Now may we discuss the Caleban who -- " Perhaps overlooking cannot be connected, the Caleban said, interrupting. We enter state for which there exists no remedy. 'As well argue with the night,' as your poets tell us. The sensation of an enormous sigh swept out from the Caleban ai over McKie. It was sadness, a doom-fire gloom. He wondered if he were experiencing an angeret failure. "You feel that?" Furuneo asked his companion. "Yes." McKie felt his eyes burning. He blinked. Between blinks, he glimpsed a flower element hovering within the oval -- deep red against the room's purple, with black veins woven through it. Slowly it blossomed, closed, bios-' somed. He wanted to reach out, touch it with a handful of compassion. "How beautiful," he whispered. "What js it?" Furuneo whispered. "I think we're seeing a Caleban." "I want to cry," Furuneo said. "Control yourself, " McKie cautioned. He cleared his throat. Twanging bits of emotion tunnbied through him. They were like pieces cut from the whole and loosed to seek their own patterns. The angeret effect was lost in the mixture. Slowly, the image in the oval faded. The emotional torrent subsided. Furuneo exhaled audibly. "Fanny Mae," McKie ventured. "at was -- " I am one employed by Mliss Abnethe, the Caleban said. Correct verb usage? "Bang," Furuneo said. "Just like that." McKie glanced at him, at the place where they had entered the Ball. No sign remained of the oval hole. The heat in the room was becoming unbearable. Correct verb usage? He looked at the Caleban manifestation. Something still IF shimmered above the spoon shape but it defied his visual centers to describe it. "Was it asking a question?" Furuneo asked. "Be still a minute," McKie snapped. "I want to think." Seconds ticked past. Furuneo felt perspiration running down his neck, under his collar. He could taste it in the corners of his mouth. McKie sat stared silently at the giant spoon. The' Caleban employed by Abnethe. He still felt the aftermath of the emotional melange. Some lost memory demand his attention bdt he could not bring it out for examination. Furuneo, watching McKie, began to wonder if the'Saboteur Extraordinary had been mesmerized. "You still thinking?" he whispered. McKie nodded. Then; "Fanny Mae, where is your employer?" Coordinates not permitted, the Caleban said. "Is she on this planet?" Different connectives. "I don't think you two are talking the same language," Furuneo said. "From everything I've read and heard about Calebans, that's the big problem," McKie said. "Communication difficulty." Furuneo wipedsweat from his forehead. "Have you tried calling Abnethe long distance?" "Don't be stupid," McKie said. "That's the first thing I tried." "Well?" "Either the Taprisiots are telling the truth and can't make contact or she's bought them off some way. What difference does it make? So I contact her. How does that tell me where she is? How do I invoke a monitor clause with someone who doesn't wear a monitor?" "How could she buy off the Taprisiots?" "How do I know? For that matter, how could she hire a Caleban?" Invocation of value exchange. the Caleban said. McKie chewed at his upper lip. F uruneo leaned against the wall behind him. He knew what inhibited McKie here. You walked softly with a strange sentient species. No telling what might cause affront. Even the way you phrased a question could cause trouble. BuSab should have assigned a Zeno expert to help McKie. "Abnethe offered you something of value, Fanny Mae?" McKie ventured. I offer judgment, the Caleban said. Abnethe may not be judged friendly-good-nice-kindly -- acceptable. "Is that your judgment?" McKie asked. Your species prohibits flagellation of sentients, the Caleban said. Abnethe orders me flagellated. "Why don't you just refuse?" Contract obligation. "Contract obligation?" McKie glanced at Furuneo, who shrugged. "Ask where she goes to be flagellated," Furuneo suggested. Flagellation comes to me. "By flagellation, you mean you're whipped? Is that right?" Explanation of whipping describes production of froth, the Caleban said. Not proper term. Abnethe orders me flogged. "That thing talks like a computer," Furuneo said. "Let me handle this," McKie ordered.  Computer describes mechanical device, the Caleban said. I live. "He meant no insult," McKie said. Insult not interpreted. "Does the flogging hurt you?" McKie asked. Explain hurt. "Cause you discomfort?" Reference recalled. Such sensations explained. Explanations cross no connectives. "Do you choose to be flogg?" he asked. Choice made. "Well, would you make the same choice if you had it to do over?" Confusing reference, the Caleban said. Ij over refers to repetition, I make no voice in repetition. Abnethe sends Palenki with whip and flogging occurs. Furuneo shuddered. "A Palenki!" "You knew it had to be something like that," McKie said. "What else could you get to do such a thing except a creature without much brain and lots of obedient muscle?" "But a Palenki! Couldn't we hunt for -- " "We've known, from the first what she had to be using," McKie said. "Where do you hunt for one Palenki?" He shrugged. "Why can't Calebans understand the concept of being hurt? Is it pure semantics or do they lack the proper nerve linkages?" Understand nerves, the Caleban .,-said. Any sentience must possess control linkages. But hurt -- discontinuity of meaning appears insurmountable. "Abnethe can't stand the sight of pain you said," Furuneo reminded McKie. "Yeah. How does she watch the floggings?" Abnethe views my home. When no further answer was forthcoming McKie asked, "I don't understand. What's your home have to do with it?" My home this. My home contains -- aligns? Master S'eye. Abnethe possesses connectives for which she pays. McKie wondered if ihe Caleban were playing some sarcastic game with him. But all the information about the species made no reference to sarcasm. Word confusions, yes -- butno apparent insults or subterfuges. "Abnefhe sounds like a mixedup bitch," McKie muttered. Physically unmixed, the Caleban said. Isolated in her own connectives now but unified and presentable by your standards -- so say judgments made in my presence. If, however, you refer to Abnethe psyche, mixed-up conveys accurate description. What I see of Abnethe psyche most intertwined. Convolutions of odd color displace my vision-sense in extraordinary fashion. IF McKie gulped. "You sec her psyche?" I see all psyche, "So much for the theory that Calebans cannot see," Furuneo said. "A#I is illuon, eh?" "How is this possible?" McKie asked.  occupy space between physical and mental, the Caleban said. Thus your Jellow sentients explain in your terminology, "Gibberish," McKie said. You achieve discontinuity of meaning, "Why did you accept Abnethe's offer of employment?" No common rejerrent for explanation, "You achieve discontinuity of meaning," Furuneo said. So I surmise, "I must fjnd Abnethc," McKie said. I give warning, the Caleban said. "Watch it," Furuneo whispered. "I sense rage that's not connected with the angeret,'" McKie waved him to silence. "What warning, Fanny Mae?" Potentials in your situation, the Caleban said.  allow my -- person? Yes, my person, I allow my person to entrap itself in association which fellow sentients may interpret as nonfriendly, wondered how close they were to anything that could yalidly be called communication. He wanted to come right out and inquire about the Caleban disappearances, the deaths and insanity. but feared possible consequences. "Nonfriendly?" Understand, the Caleban said, life which flow in all carries subternal connectives. Each entity remains linked until final discontinuity removes from -- network? Yes, suitable term: network. Unaware of tanglements, I convey linkages of other entities into association with Abnethe, Should personal discontinuity overtake self -- all entities entangled share it, "Discontinuity?" McKie asked, not sure he followed this but afraid he did. Tanglements come from contact between sentients not originating in same linearities of awareness, the Caleban said, ignoring McIGe's question. "I'm not sure what you mean by discontinuity," Me Kie pressed. In context ultimate discontinuity presumed opposite of pleasure -- your term, "You're getting nowhere," Furuneo said. His head ached from trying to equate the radiant impulses of communication from the Caleban with speech. "Sounds like a semantic identity situation," McKie said. "Black and white statements -- but we're trying to find an interpretation in between." All between, the Caleban said. "Presumed opposite of pleasure?" "Our term," Furuneo reminded him. "Tell me, Fanny Mae," McKie said, "do we other sentients refer to this ultimate discontinuity as death?" Presumed (proximate term, the Caleban said. Abnegation oj mutual awareness, ultimate discontinuity, death -- all appear similar descriptives. "If you die many others are going to die -- is that it?" All users oJ S' eye. All in tanglement. M;cKie was shocked. "All?" All such in your -- wave? Difficult concept. Calebans possess label for this concept -- plane? Planguinity of beings? Surmise proper term not shared. Problem concealed in visual exclusion which clouds mutual association. Furuneo touched McKie's arm. '"Is she saying that if she dies everyone who's used a S'eye jumpdoor goes with her?" '"Sounds like it." "I don't believe it!" "The evidence would seem to indicate we have to believe her." "But -- " "I wonder if she's in any danger of going soon." "If you grant the premise, that's a good question." discontinuity, Fanny Mae?" McKie asked. All precedes ultimate discontinuity. "Yeah, but are you headed toward this ultimate discontinuity?" Without choice, all head for ultimate discontinuity. "McKie mopped his forehead.The temperature inside the Bail had been going up rather steadily. I fulfill demands of honor, the Caleban said. Acquaint you with prospect. Sentients of your -- planguinity appear unable, lacking means of withdrawal from influence of my association with Abnethe. Communication understood? "McKie," Furuneo said, "have you any idea how many sentients have used a jumpdoor?" "Damn near everyone." Communication understood?-thc Caleban repeated. "I don't know," McKie groaned. Difficult sharing of concepts, the Caleban said. "I still don't believe it," Furuneo said. "You'd better believe it," McKie said. "It squares with what some of the other Calebans said, near as we can reconstruct it after the messes they've left." Understand withdrawal of companions creates disruption, the Caleban said. Disruption equates with mess? "That's about it," McKie said. "Tell me, Fanny Mae, is there immediate danger of your -- ultimate discontinuity?" Explain imminent. "Soon," McKie snapped. "Short time." Time concept difficult, the Caleban said. You inquire of personal ability to surmount flagellation? "That's good enough," McKie said. "How many more flagellations can you survive?" Explain survive. "How many flagellations until you experience ultimate discontiIF nuity? Can you possibly know?" Perhaps ten flagellations. Perhaps lesser number. Perhaps more, "And your death will kill all of us?" McKie asked, hoping he had misunderstood. Lesser number than all, the Caleban said. "You just think you're understanding her," Furuneo said. "I'm afraid I understand her." Fellow Calebans, the Caleban said, recognizing entrapment, achieve withdrawing. Thus they avoid discontinuity, "How many Calebans remain in our -- plane?" Single entity of selfness, the Caleban said. "Just the "one," McKie muttered. "That's a damn thin thread." "I don't see how the death of one Caleban can cause all that havoc," Furuneo said. Explain by comparison. Scientist of your planguinity explains reaction of stellar selfdom. Stellar mass enters expanding condition. In this condition stellar mass engulfs and reduces all substances to other energy patterns. All substances encountered by stellar expansion change. Thus ultimate discontinuity of personal selfdom reaches hlong linkages of Seye connectives, repatterns all entities encountered, "Stellar selfdom," Furuneo said, shaking his head. Incorrect term? the Caleban asked. Energy selfdom, perhaps', S HE'S saying," McKie said, "that use of S'eye doors has tangled us with her life some way. Her death will reach out like a stellar explosion along all these tangled networks and kill us." "That's what you think she's saying," Furuneo objected. "That's what I have to believe she's saying," McKie said. "Our communication may be tenuous but I think she's sincere. Can't you still feel the emotions radiating from her?" "Two spies can be said to share emotions only in the broadest way," Furuneo said. "She doesn't even understand what we mean by pain." Scientist of your planguinity, the Caleban said, explains emotional base for communication. Lacking emotional commonality, sameness of labels uncertain. Emotion concept not certain for Calebans, Communication difficulty assumed, McKie nodded. He could see a further complication -- the question of whether the Caleban' s words were spoken or radiated in some unthinkable manner completed their confusion. "I believe you're right in one thing," Furuneo said. "Yes?" "We have to assume we understand her." McKie swallowed in a dry throat. "Fanny Mae," he said, "have you explained this ultimate discontinuity prospect to Mliss Abnethe?" Problem explained, the Caleban said. Fellow Calebans attempt remedy of error, Abnethe fails of comprehension or disregards consequences, Connectives difficult, '"Connectives difficult," McKie muttered. All connectives of single Seye, the Caleban said. Master Seye of self creates mutual problem, "Don't tell me you understand that," Furuneo objected. " Abnethe employs Master S'eye of self," the Caleban said. "Contract agreement gives Abnethe right of use. One Master S'eye of self. Abnethe uses." "So she opens a junipdoor and sends her Palenki through it," Furuneo said. "Why don't we just wait here and grab her?" "She could close the door before we even got near her," McKie growled. "No, there's more to what this Caleban's saying. I think she's telling us there's only one Master S'eye -- control system, perhaps, for all the jumpdoors -- and Fanny Mae here is in control of it or the channel operation or -- " "Or something." Abnethe control S eye by right of purchase, the Caleban said. "See what I ipean?" McKie said. "Can you override her control, Fanny Mae?" Terms of employment require not interfere, "But can't you still use your own S'eye doors?" McKie pressed. All use, the Caleban said. "This is insane!" Furuneo snapped. Insanity defines as lack of orderly thought progression in mutual acceptance of logical terms, the Caleban said. Insanity frequent judgment of one species upon other species. Proper interpretation otherwise, "I think I just had my wrist slapped," Furuneo said. "Look," McKie said, "the other deaths and insanity around Caleban disappearances substantiate our interpretation. We're dealing with something explosive and dangerous." "So we find Abnethe and stop her." "You make that sound so simple," McKie said. "Here are your orders. Get out of here and alert the Bureau. The Caleban's communication won't show on your recorder but you'll have it all down in your memory. Tell them to scan you for it." "Right. You're staying?" "Yes." "What'll I say you're doing?" "I want to look at Abnethe's companions and her surroundings." Furuneo cleared his throat. "Have you thought of, you know -- just bang?" He made the motion of firing a raygen. "There's a limit on what can go through a jumpdoor and how fast," McKie chided. "You know that." "Maybe this jumpdoor's different." "I doubt it." "After I've reported in, what then?" "Sit tight outside there until I call you -- unless they give you a message for me. Oh, and start a general search on Cordiality -- just in case," IF "Of course." Furuneo hesitated. "One thing -- whom do I contact at the Bureau? Bildoon?" McKie glanced up. Why should Furuneo question whom to call? What was he trying to say? It dawned on McKie then that Furuneo had hit on a logical concern. BuSab director Napoleon Bildoon was a Pan Spechi, ntarchal sentient, human only in appearance. Since McKie, a human, held nominal charge in this case, that might appear to confine control of it, excluding other members of the ConSentiency. Inter-species political infighting could take odd turns in a time of stress. Best to involve a broad directorate here. "Thanks," McKie said. I wasn't thinking much beyond the immediate problem." "This is the immediate problem." "I understand. All right, I was tapped for this chore by our Director of Discretion." "Gitchel Siker?" "Yes." "That's one Laclac and Bildoon, a PanSpechi. Who else?" "Get somebody out of the legal department." "Bound to be a human.". "The minute you stretch it that far -- they'll all get the message," McKie said. "They'll bring in the others before making any crucial decision." Furuneo nodded. "One other thing." "What?" "How do I get out of here?" "Good question." McKie faced the giant spoon. "Fanny Mae, how does my companion leave here?" "He wishes to journey where?" "To his home." Connectives apparent,, the Caleban said. ears popped to a change in pressure. There was a sound like the pulling of a cork from a bottle. He whirled. Furuneo was gone. "You -- sent him home?" McKie asked. Correct. Desired destination visible. Sent swiftness. Prevent temperature drop below proper level. McKie, feeling perspiration roll down his cheeks, said, "I wish I knew how you did that? Can you actually see our thoughts?" See only strong connectives. The Caleban's remark about temperature came back to him. What was a proper temperature ' level? Damn! The air was boiling in here. His skin itched with perspiration. His throat was, dry. Proper temperature level? "What's the opposite of proper?" False. McKie gave up. How could false be the opposite of proper? He passed a hand across his forehead, gathering perspiration which he tried to wipe off on his jacket. The shiminering oval above the giant spoon abruptly wavered outward, contracted, flowed up, down, left. McKie received a definite imStart # with pression of distress. The ovalvanished but his eyes still tracked the Caleban's unpresence. "Is something wrong?" M cKie masked. The round vortal tube of a S'eye jumpdoor opened behind the Caleban. Beyond the opening stood a woman, a figure dwarfed as though seen through the wrong end of a telescope. McKie recognized her from all the newsvisos and from the holoscans he'd been fed as background briefing for this assignment. He was confronting Mliss Abnethe in a light somewhat reddened by its slow passage through the jumpdoor. It was ob#ous that the beautybarbers of Steadyon had been about their expensive work on her person. He made a mental note to have that checked. Her figure presented the youthful curves of a pleasurefem. The face beneath fairyblue hair was focused around a r petal mouth. Large summery green eyes and a sharply cleaving nose conveyed odd contrast -- dignity versus hoyden. She was a flawed queen -- age mingled with youth. She must be at least eighty standard years but the beautybarbers had achieved this startling combination -- available pleasurefem and remote, hungry power. ' The expensive body wore a long gown of gray rainpearls which matched her, movement for movement, like a glittering skin. She moveid nearer the vortal 'tube. As she approached, the edges of the tube blocked off first her feet, then her legs, thighs, waist. McKie felt his knees age a thousand years in that brief passage. He remained crouched near the place where he had entered the Beachball. "Ah, Fanny Mae," Mliss Abnethe said. "You have a guest." Jumpdoor interference caused her voice to sound faintly hoarse. "I am Jorj X. McKie, Saboteur Extraordinary." Was that a contraction in the pupils of her eyes? McKie wondered. She stopped with only her head and shoulders visible in the tube's circle. "And I am Mliss Abenthe, privatecitizen." Private citizen? McKie thought that this bitch controlled the productive capacity of at least five hundred worlds. He rose slowly, to his feet. "The Bureau of Sabotage has official business with you," he said, putting her on notice to satisfy the legalities. "I am a private citizen." The words were prideful, vain, marred by petulance. McKie took heart at the revealed weakness. It was a particular kind of flaw that often went with wealth and power. "Fanny Mae, am I your guest?" ' he asked. Indeed, the Caleban said.  open my door to you. "Am I your employer, Fanny Mae?" Abnethe demanded. Indeed, you employ me. A breathless, crouching look came over her face. Her eyes went to slits. "Very well. Then prepare to fulIF fill at once the obligations of -- " "One moment." McKie felt desperate. Why was she moving so fast? What was that faint whine in her voice? "Guests do not interfere." "BuSab makes its own decisions about interference." "Your jurisdiction has limits." McKie heard the beginnings of many actions in that statement -- hired operatives, gigantic sums spent as bribes, doctored agreements, treaties, stories planted with the visos on how this good and proud lady had been mistreated by her government, a wide enlistment of personal concern to justify -- what? Violence against his person? He thought not. More likely to discredit him, to saddle him with onerous misdeeds. Thought of all that power made McKie wonder suddenly why he made himself vulnerable to it. Why had he chosen BuSab? Because I'm difficult to please, he told himself. I'm a Saboteur by choice. There was no going back on that choice now. BuSab appeared to walk down the middle of everywhere and always wound up on the high road. "Agreed we have limits," McKie growled, "but I doubt you'll ever see them. Now, what's going on here?" "You're not a police agent." "Perhaps I should summon police." "On what grounds?" She smiled. She had him there and knew it. Her legal staff had explained to he the open-association clause in the ConSentient Articles of Federation: When members of different species agree formally to an association from ' which they derive mutual benefits the contracting parties shall be the sole judges of said benefits, provided their agreement breaks no law, covenant or legative article binding upon said contracting parties; provided further that stud formal agreement was achieved by volun- tary means and involves no breach of the public peace. "Your actions will bring about the death of this Caleban," McKie said. He did not hold out much hope for this argument but it bought a bit more time.   "You'll have to establish that the Caleban concept of discontinuity interprets precisely as death," Abnethe said. "You can't do that because it's not true. Wiy do you interfere? This is just" harmless play between consenting ad -- " More than play, the Caleban said. "Fanny Mae," Abnethe ordered. "You are not to interrupt! Remember our agreement." of the Caleban's unpresence, tried to interpret the spectrum flare that rejected his senses. Discern conflict between ideals and structure of government, the Caleban said. "Precisely," Abnethe said. "I'm assured that Calebans cannot suffer pain, that they don't even have a term for it. If it's my pleasure to stage an apparent flogging and observe in detail the reactions of -- " "Are you sure she suffers no pain?" McKie'aed. Again a gloating smile came over Abnethe's face. Tve never seen her suffer pain. Have you?" "Have you seen her do anything?" "I've seen her come and go." "Do you suffer pain, Fanny Mae?" McKie asked. No referrents Jor this concept, "Are these floggings going to bring about your ultimate discontinuity?" McKie asked. Explain bring tAoiut. "Is there any connection between the floggings and your ultimate discontinuity?"  Total universe connectives include all events.  "I pay well for my me," Abnethe said. "Stop interfering, McKie." "How are you paying?" "None of your business." "I make it my business," McKie said. "Fanny Mae?" "Don't answer him," Abnethe snapped. "I can still summon police and the officers of a Discretionary Court," McKie said. "By all meads," Abnethe gloated. "You are, of course, ready to answer a suit charging interfer-. ence with in open agreeitoent between consenting members of different species?" "I can still get an injunction," McKie said, "at's your present address?" "I decline to answer on advice of counsel." McKie glared at her. She had him. He could not charge her with flight to prevent prosecution unless he had provra a crime. To prove a crime he must get a court to act and serve her with the proper papers in the presence of bonded witnesses, bring her into a court and allow her to face her accusers. And her attorneys would tie him in knots every step of the way. #fef judgment, the Caleban said. Nothing in Abnethe contract prohibits revelation oj payment. Employer provides educators. "Educators?" ' "Very well," Abnethe conceded. "I provide Fanny Mae with Jhe finest instructors and teaching aids our civilization can supply. She's been soaking up our culture. Anything she requested she got. And it wasn't cheap." "And she still doe't understand pain?" Hope to acquire proper referents. "Will you have time to acquire those referents?" Time difficult concept, the Caleban said. Statement of instructor, to wit: 'Relevancy of time to learning varies with species.' Time possesses length, unknown quality termed duration, subjective and objective dimension. Confusing. "Let's make this official," McKie said. "Abnethe, are you ban?" "Discontinuity and death are not the same," Abnethe objected. "Are they, Fanny Mae?" Wide disparity of equivalents exist between separate waves of being. IF "I ask you formally, Mliss Abnethe," McKic said, "'if this Calcban calling herself Fanny Mae has told you the consequences of an event she describes as ultimate discontinuity?" "You just heard her say there are no equivalents." "You've not answered my question." "You're quibbling." "Fanny Mae," McKie said, "have you described for Mliss Abnethe, the consequents of -- " Bound by contract connectives, the Caleban said. "You see." Abnethe pounced. "She's bound by our open agreement and you're interfering." Abnethe gestured to someone not visible in the jumpdoor's vortal tube. T he opening suddenly doubled its diameter. Abnethe stepped aside, leaving half her head and one eye visible to McKie. A crowd of watching sentients could be discerned now in the background. Into Abnethe' s place darted the turtle form of a giant Palenki. Its hundreds of tiny feet flickered beneath its bulk. The single arm growing from the top if its ringeyed head trailed a long whip in a double-thumbed hand. The arm thrust through the tube, jerked the whip against jumpdoor resistance, lashed the whip forward. The whip cracked above the spoon bowl. A crystalline spray of green shower the unseeable region of the Caleban. It glittered for a moment like a fluorescent explosion of fireworks, then dissolved. An ecstatic moan came through the vortal tube. McKie fought an intense outpouring sensation .of distress, leap forward. Instantly, the S'eye jumpdoor closed, dumping a severed Palenki arm and whip onto the floor of the room. The arm writhed and turned, slowed -- slowed. It fell still. "Fanny Mae?" McKie said. Yes? "Did that whip hit you?" Explain whip hit, "Encounter your substance!" Approximately, McKie moved close to the spoon bowl. He still sensed distress but knew it could be a side effect of angeret and the incident he'd just witnessed. "Describe the flogging sensation," he said. You possess no proper referents, "Try me." I inhaled substance of whip, exhaled my own substance, "You breathed it?" Aproximately.  "Well -- describe your physical reactions." No common physical referents, "Any reaction, dammit!" Whip incompatible with my glssrrk,..."Your what?" No common referents, "What was that green spray when it hit you?" Explain greenspray. By referring to wavelengths and describing airborne water droplets -- with a side excursion into wave and wind action -- McKie thought he conveyed an approximate idea of green spray. You observe this phenomenon? "I saw it, yes." Extraordinary! McKie hesitated, an odd thought fflling his mind. Could he be as insubstantial to the Caleban as the Cxrleban appeared to him? He asked. All vreatures possess substance relative to their own quantum existence, the Caleban said. "But do you se our substance when you look at us?" Basic difficulty. Your species repeats this question. Possess no certain answer, "Try to explain. Start by telling me about the green spray." Greenspray unknown phenomenon, "But what could it be?" Perhaps interplanar phenomenon, reaction to exhalation of my substance, "Is there a limit to how much of your substance you can exhale?" Quantum relationship defies limitations of your plane. Movement exists between planar origins, Movement changes referential relatives. No constant referents? McKie wondered. But there had to be. He explored this aspect with the Caleban,. questions and answers obviously making less and less sense to both of them. "But there must be some constant." Connectives possess aspect of this constant you seek , " "What are connectives?" No -- "Referents!" McKie stormed. "Then why use the term?" Term approximates. Tangential occlusion another term expressing something similar, "Tangential occlusion," McKie muttered. Then: "Tangential occlusion?" Fellow Caleban offers this term after discussion of problem with Laclac sentient possessing rare insight, "One of you talked this over with a Laclac, eh? Who wa's this Laclac?" Identity not conveyed but occupation known and understandable, ''Oh? What was his occupation?" Dentist, McKie exhaled a long, held breath, shook his head with bewilderment. "You understand -- dentist?" All species requipng ingestion of energy sources must reduce such sources to convenient form, "You mean they bite?" Explain bite, "I thought you understood dentist." Dentist -- one who maintains system by which sentients shape energy for ingestion, "Tangential occlusion," McKie muttered. "Explain what you understand by occlusion," Proper matching of related parts in shaping system, "We're getting nowhere," McKie growled. Every creature somewhere, the Caleban said. "But where? Where are you, IF for example? Just tell me that." Planar relationships unexplainable. "Let's try something else," McKie said. "I've heard you can read our writing." Reducing what you term writing to compatible connectives suggests time-constant communication, the Caleban said. Not really certain, however, of time-constant or required connectives. "Well -- let's go at the verb 'to see,' " McKie said. "Tell me what you understand by the action of seeing." To see -- receive sensory awareness of external energy. McKie buried his face in his hands. He felt dispirited, brain numbed by the Caleban's . radiant bombardment. What would be the sensory organs? He knew such a question would only send them off on another empty label chase. Presently he dropped his hands, said, "Is there somewhere yOu could take this -- your home -- where Mliss Abnethe couldn't reach you." Cannot. "Why?" Agreement prohibits. "Break the damned agreement!" Dishonorable action brings ultimate discontinuity for all sentients on your -- suggest wave as better term. Wave. Much closer  term than plane. Please substitute concept of wave wherever plane used in our discussion. This thing was impossible, McKie thought. He lifted his arms in a gesture of frustration and, in the movement, felt his bodj? jerk as a longdistance call ignited his pineal gland. The message began to roll and he knew his body had gone into the sniggertrance, mumbling and chuckling, trembling occasionally. Section #, Title #, (United States Code), #. Date of filing October #, #. #. Title of Publication: Worlds of If. #. Frequency of-issue monthly. #. Location of known offices of publication: # Camden Avenue S.W., Canton, Ohio #. #. Location of headquarters or general business offices of the publishers: # East #th Street, New York, N.Y. #. #. Names and addresses of the publisher, editda and managing editor. Publisher: Arnold E, Abramson, # East #th Street, New York, N,Y. #. Editor: Ejler Jakobsaon, # East #th Street, New York, N.Y. #. hfonaging Editor Judy Benjamin, # East #th Street, New York, N.Y. #. #. Owner: Universal Publishing  Distributing Corp.', # East #th Street, New York, N.Y. #; Arnold . Abramson, # East #th Street, New York, N.Y. #; bert J. Abramson, # East #th Stjreet, New York, N.Y. #; Peter J. Abramson, # East #th Street, New York, N.Y. #; Allen  Co., # Broad Street, New York, N.Y. #; S.D. Lunt it Co., # Marine Trust Bldg., BuAalo, N.Y.; Cloony it Co. co Fididary Trust Co. of NY, I Wall Street, New York, N.Y.; Carl M. Lb, Rhodes it Co., # Wall Street, New York, N.Y. #. Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security holders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other securites: None. #. A. Total no. copies printed (net press run). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months #. Singleissue nearest to filing date: #. B. Paid circulation. #. Sales throu dealers and carriers, street voidors and counter salgs. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #; Single issue nearest to filing date: #. #. Mail subscriptions: Average no copies each issue during preceding # months, #; Single issue nearest to filing date, #. C. Total paid circulation: Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months. #; Sinsfe issue nearest to filing date #. D. Free distribution (including samples) by mail, carrier or other means: Average no. copies eadi issue during preceding # months, #; Single issue nearest to filing date, #. E. Total distribution (sum of C and D): Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months. #: Single issue nearest to filing date, #; F. Office use, left-over, unaccounted, spoiled after printinr Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months, #; Sinde issue nearest to filing date. #. G. Total (sum of E and F -- should equal net press run shown in A); Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months, #. Single issue nearest to filing date #. I certi that the statements made by me are correct and complete. Laurence C. Murphy, Circulation Director Ill V#T caller said. McKie imagined the Bureau's Director of Discretion a suave little Laclac sitting in that nicely tailored environment back at Central. Siker would be relaxed, fighting tendril withdrawn, his face slit open, an elite chairdog ministering to his flesh, trained minions a buttonpush away. "About 'time you called," McKie said. "About time I called?" "Well, you certainly must've gotten Fuhineo's message quite a -- " "What message?" McKie felt as though his mind had touched a grinding wheel, shooting off ideas like sparks. No message from Furuneo? "Furuneo," McKie said, "left here long enough ago to -- " "I'm calling," Siker interrupted, "because there's been no sign of either of you for too damn long and Furuneo's enforcers are worried. Where was Furuneo supposed to go and how?" #  McKie felt an idea blossoming in his mind. "Where was Furuneo born?" "Born? On Landy-B. Why?" "I think we'll And him there. The Caleban used its S'eye system to send him home. If he hasn't called yet, better send for him. He was supposed to -- " "Landy-B only has three Taprisiots and one jumpdoor. It's a retreat ' planet, full of recluses and -- " "That would explain the delay. Meanwhile, here's the sitvation -- " McKie began detailing the problem. "Do you believe this, this ultimate discontinuity thing?" Siker interrupted. "We have to believe it. The evidence all says it's true." "Well, maybe -- but -- "Can we afford a maybe, Siker?" "We'd better call in the police." "I think she wants us to do just that." "Wants us? Why?" "Who would have to sign a complaint?" Silence. "Are you getting the picture?" McKie press. "It's on your head, "McKie." "It always is. But if we're right -- that doesn't make any difference, does it?" "I'm going to suggest," Siker said, "that we contact the top level in the Central Police Bureau -- for consultation only. Agreed?" "Discuss that with Bildoon. Meanwhile, here's what I want done. Assemble a Bureau ConSentient Council, draft another max-alert message. Keep the emphasis on Calelns but brin in the Palenkis and start looking into Abnethe's -- " "We can't do that and you know it."  "We have to do it." "When you took this assignment, you received a full explanation of why we -- " "Utmost discretion doesn't mean hands off," McKie said. "If that's the way you're thinking then you've missed the importance of -- " "McKie, I can't believe -- " "Sign off, Siker," McKie said. "I'm going over your head to Bildoon." Silence. "Break this contact," McKie ordered. "That won't be necessary." "Won't it?" "I'll put the agents onto Abnethe at once. I see your point. If we assume that -- " "We assume," McKie said. "The orders will be issu in your name, of course," Siker said. "Keep your skirts clean anyway you like," McKie said. "Now, have our people start probing into the Beautybarbers of Steady on. She's been there and recently. Also, I'll be sending along a whip she -- " "A whip?" "I just witnessed one of the flagellations. Abnethe cut the connection while her Palenki still had an arm through the S'eye door. Cut the arm right off. The Palenki will grow another arm and she can hire more Palenkis -- but the whip and arm could ve us a lead. Palenkis don't practice geiie tagging, I know, but it's the best we have at the moment." "I understand. What did you see during the -- incident?" "I'm getting to that." "Hadn't you better come in and put ywr report directly onto a transcorder?" "I'll depend on you for that. Don't think I should show at Central for a bit." "Right. See what you mean. She'll try to tie you up with a countersuit." R I miss my guess. Now, here's what I saw. When she opened the door she practically filM it -- but I could see what appeared to be a window in the background. It it was a window, it opened onto a cloudy sky. That means daylight." "Cloudy?" "Yes. Why?" "It's been cloudy here all morning. "You don't think she's -- no, she wouldn't." "Probably not -- but we'll have Central scoured just to be sure. With her money, no telling whom . she has bought." "Yeah -- well, the Palenki. Its shell carried an odd design -- triangles, diamonds in red and orange and a rope or snake of yellow wound all the way around and through it." "Phylum identification." IF "Yes -- but what Palenki Family?" "Well, we'll check it. What else?" "There was a mob of sentients behind her during the actual flogging. I saw Preylings -- couldn't miss those wire tentacles. There were some Chithers, a few Soborips, some Wreaves -- " "Sounds like her usual patch of sycophants. Recognize any?" "I'll try to ID's later but I couldn't attach any names to this mob. But there was one, a Pan Spechi and he was stagfrozen or I miss my guess." "You sure?" A ll I know IS what I saw and I saw the scars on his forehead -- ego surgery, sure as I'm sniggermg. "That's against every Pan Spechi legal, moral and ethical -- " "The scars were purple," McKie saidl "That checks, doesn't it?" "Right out in the open, no makeup or anything to cover the scars?" "Nothing. If I'm right it means he's the only Pan Spechi with her. Another would kill him op sight." "Where could she be where there'd be only one Pan Spechi?" "Beats me. Oh, and there were some humans, too -- green uniforms." "Abnethe houseguards." "That's the way I made it." "Quite a mob to be hiding away." "If anyone can afford it, she can." "One more thing," McKie said. "I smelled yeast." "Yeast?" "No doubt about it. There's always a pressure differential through a jumpdoor. It was blowing our way. Yeast." "That's quite a bag of observations." "Did you think I was getting careless?" , "No more than usual, Are you absolutely sure about that Pan Spechi?" "I saw the eyes." "Sunken, the facets smoothing over?" "That's the way it looked to me "If we can get a Pan Spechi to make an official observation of this fellow it would give us a lever. Harboring a criminal, you know." "Apparently you haven't much experience .with Pan Spechi," McKie said. "How did you get to be Director of Discretion?" "All right, McKie, let's not -- " "You know damn' well a Pan Spechi would blow up if he saw this fellow. Our observer would try to dive through the jumpdoor and -- " "So?" . "Abnethe would close it on him. She'd have half of our observer and we'd have the other half." "But that would be murder." "An unfortunate accident, no more." "That woman does swing a lot of weight, I admit, but -- " "And she'll have our hides if she can make it stick that she's a private citizen and we're trying to sabotage her." "Messy," Siker agreed. "I hope you made no official sounds in her Erection." "Ahh, but I did." "You what?" "I put her on official notice." "McKie, you were told to handle this with dis -- " "Look, we want her to start official action. Check with legal. She can try a countersuit against me personally. But if she moves against the Bureau we can ask for seratori hearing, a personal confrontation. Her legal staff wilt a# vise her of that. No, she'll try to get at -- " "She may not go into court against the Bureau," Siker said, "but she's certain to set her dogs on us. And it couldn't come at a worse time. Bildoon has just about used up his ego-time. He'll be going into the creche any time now. You know what that nieans." "The Bureau Director's chair up for grabs," McKie said. "I've been expecting it." "Yes, but matters will be in a real uproar around here." "You're eligible for the seat, Siker." "So are you, McKie." "Ipass." "That'll be the day. What I'm worried about is Bildoon. He'll blow when he hears about this ego-frozen Pan Spechi. That might be all it takes to -- " "He'll handle it," McKie said, putting more confidepce into the statement than he felt. "And you could be wrong. I hope you know I'm not passing." "We all know you want the job," McKie said. "I can imagine the gossip." "Is it worth it?" "I'll let you know." "I'm sure you will." "One thing," Siker said. "How are you going to keep Abnethe off your back?" "I'm going to become a school teacher," McKie said. "I don't think I want that explained," Siker said. He broke the contact. seated in the purple gloom of the Beachball. Sweat bathed his body. The place was an oven. He wondered u his fat actually were being reduced by the heat. Water loss, certainly. The instant he thought of water he sensed dryness in his throat. "You still there," he rasped. Silence. "Fanny Mae?" I remain in my home, the Caleban said. The sensation that he heard the words without hearing grated on McKie, fed on the angeret in his system, stirred a latent rage. with us in trying to stop these floggings?" Mcfoe asked. As my contract permits. "All right. Then you insist to Abnethe that you want me as your teacher." You perform functions of teacher? "Have you learned anything from me?" McKie asked. IF All mingled connectives instruct. "Connectives," McKie muttered. "I must be getting old." Explain old. "Never mind. We should have discussed your contract first thing. Maybe there's a way to break it. Under what laws was it executed?" Explain laws. "Vat honorable system of enforcement?" McKie blared. Under natural honor of sentient connectives. "Abnethe doesn't know what honor means." I understand honor. McKie sighed. "Were there witnesses, signatures, that sort of thing?" AH my fellow Calebans witness connectives. Signatures not understood. Explain. McKie decided not to explore the concept of signatures. Instead he asked, "Under what circumstances could you refuse to honor your contract with Abnethe?" After a prolonged pause, the. Caleban said. Changing circumstances convey varQie relationships. Should Abnethe fail in her connectives or attempt redefinition of essences, this could produce linearities open for my disentanglement. "Sure," McKie said. "That figures." He shook his head, studied the empty air above the giant spoon. Calebans. You couldn't see them, couldn't hear them, couldn't understand them. Is the use of your S'eye system available to me?" McKie ask. You function as my teacher. "Is that a yes?" A ffirmative answer. "Affirmative answer," McKie echoed. "Fine. Can you also transport objects for me, sending them where I direct?" While connectives remain apparent. "I hope'that means what I think it does," McKie said. "Are you aware of the Palenki arm and whip over there on your floor?" Aware. "I want them sent to a particular office at Central. Can you do that?" Think of office. McKie oyed... Connectives available, the Caleban said. You desire sending to place of examination. "That's right!" Send now? "At once." Once, yes. Multiple sending remains outside our capabilities. "Huh?" Objects going. whip snapped out of his view accompanied by a sharp crack of exploding air. "Do the Taprisiots work in any way similar to what you do in transporting things?" Message transportation minor energy level, the Caleban said. Beautybarbers even more minor. "I guess so," McKie said. "Well, never mind. There's the little matter of my friend, Alicheno Funineo, though. Yousent him home, I believe?" Correct. "You sent him to the wrong home." Credtures possess only one home, "We sentients have more than one tome." But  view connectives! McKie felt the wash of radiant objection "from the Caleban, steadied himself. "No doubt," he said. "But he has another home right here on Cordiality." Astonishment fills me. "Probably. The question remains, can you correct this situation?" Explain situation. "Can you send him to his home here on Cordiality?" Pause, then: That place not his home. "Butan you send him there?" You wish this? "I wish it." Ypur friend converses through a Taprisiot. "Ah," McKie said. "Can you listen in on his conversation?" Message content not available. Connectives visible.  possess awareness that your friend exchanges communication with sentient of other species. "What species?" One you label Pan Spechi. "What'd happen if you sent Furuneo to -- his home here on Cordiality right now?" Shattering of connectives. But message exchange concludes in this linearity.  send him. There. "You sent him?" By connectives you convey. "He's here on Cordiality right now?" He occupies place not hishome. "I hope we're together on that." Your friend, the Caleban said, desires presence with you. "He wants to come here?" Correct. "Well why not? All right, bring him." What purpose arises from friend's presence in my home? "I want him to stay with you and watch for Abnethe while I attend to other business." McKie? "Yes." You possess awareness that presence of yourself or other of your kind prolongs impingernent of myself upon your wave? "That's fine." Your presence foreshortens flogging. "I suspected as much." Suspected? "I understand!" Understanding probable. Connectives indicative. "I can't tell you how happy that makes me," McKie said. You wish friend brought? "What's Furuneo doing?" Furuneo exchanges communication with -- assistant. "I can imagine." McKie shook his head from side to side. He could sense the morass of misunderstanding around every attemptat communication here. No way to steer clear of it. No way at all. At the very moment when IF they thought th#y had achieved closest communication -- right then they could be widest of the mark. "When Furuneo concludes his conversation, bring him," McKie said. He hunched back against the wall. The heat was almost unbearable. Why did Calebans require such heat? Maybe, the heat represented something Ise to a Calaban -- a visible wave form, perhaps serving sonie function other sentients could not begin to understand? told McKie Fumneo had arrived. McKie turned, saw the planetary agent sprawled beside him and just beginning to sit up. "For the love of reason," Furuneo shouted, "what are you doing to me?" "I needed the fresh air," McKie said. Furuneo peered at him. "What?" "Glad to see you," McKie said. "Yeah?" Furuneo brought himself to a squatting position beside McKie. "You have any idea what's just happened to me?" "You've been to Landy-B," McKie said. "How did you know? Was that your doing?" "Slight misunderstanding," Mckie said. "Landy-B's your home." "It is not." "I'll leave you to argue that with Fanny Mae," Mcfee said. "Have you started the search on Cordiality?" "I barely got it going before you -- " ' "Yes, but you've started it?" "I've started it." "Good. Fanny Mae will keep you posted on various things and bring your people here for reports and such as you need them. Won't you, Fanny Mae?" Contract permits. "Good girl." "I'd almost forgotten how hot it was in here," Furuneo said, mopping his forehead. "So I can summon people. What else?" "You watch for Abnethe." "And?" "The instant she and one of her Palenki floggers make an appearance, you get a holoscan record of everything that happens. You do have your toolkit?" "Of course." "Fine. While you're scanning, get your instruments as close to the jumpdoor as you can." "She'll probably close the door as soon as she sees what I'm domg. "Don't count on it. Oh, one thing." "Yes?" "You're my teaching assistant." "Your what?" McKie explained about the Caleban's agreement. "So she can't get rid of us without violating the terms of her contract with Fanny Mae," Furuneo said. "Cute." He pursed his lips. "That all?" "No. I want you and Fanny Mae to discuss connectives." "Convectives?" "Connectives. I want you to try devils a Caleban means by connectives." "Connectives," Furuneo said. "Is there any way to turn down the furnace in here?" "You might take that as another subject -- try to discover the reason for all this heat." "If I don't melt first. Where'll . you be?" "Hunting -- provided Fanny Mae and I can agree on the con.nectives." "You're not making sense." "Right. But I'll try to make tracks -- if Fanny Mae'll send me where the game is." Furuneo said, "You could walk into a trap." "Maybe. Fanny Mae, have you been listening?" Explain listening. "Never mind!" But mind possesses ever! McKie closed his eyes, swallowed. Then: "Fanny Mae, are you aware of the information exchange just concluded between my friend and myself here?" Explain conclu -- "Are you aware?" McKie bellowed. Amplification contributes little to communication, the Caleban said.  possess desired awareness -- presumably. "Presumably," McKie muttered. Then: "Can you send me to a place near Abnethe where she will not be aware of me but where I can be aware of her?" Negative. "Why not?" Specific injunction of contract. "Oh." McKie bent his head in thought. "Well, can you send me to a place where I might become aware of Abnethe through my own efforts?" Possibility. Permit examination of connectives.  McKie waited. The heat was a tangible thing inside the Beachball, a solid intrusion on his senses. He saw it already was beginning to wilt Furuneo. "I saw my mother," Furuneo said, noting McKie's attention. "That's great," McKie said. "She was swimming with friends when the Caleban dumped me right in the pool with them. The water was wonderful." "They were surprised, no doubt." "They thought it was a great joke. I wish I knew how that S'eye system works." The energy requirement gives me the chills." "I could use a chill right now. You know, that's one weird sensation -- standing one minute talking to old friends, the next instant yakking at empty air here on Cordiality. What do you suppose they think?" "They think it's magic." McKie, the Caleban said, I love you. "You what?" McKie exploded. Love you, the Caleban repeated. Affinity of one person for another person. Such affinity transcends species. "I guess so but -- " IF Since I possess this universal affinity Jor your person, connectives open, permitting accomplishment of your request. "You can send me to a place near Abnethe?" Affirmative. Accord with desire. Yes. "Where is this place?" McKie asked. He found, with a chill wash of air and a sprawling lurch onto dusty ground, that he was addressing his question to a moss-capped rock. For a moment he star at the rock, regaining his balance. The rock was about a meter tall and contmned small veins of yellow-white quartz with flecks of through them. It stood in an open meadow beneath d distant yellow sun. The sun's position told McKie he had arrived either at mid-morning or mid-afternoon, local. Beyond the rock the meadow and a ring of straggly yellow bushes stretched it flat'horizon broken by the tall white spires of a city. "Loves me?" he asked the rock. m "'T'  He could only achieve the impossible. The possible was forever beyond him... slippery as soap, covering the path, that caused Carter to keep slipping and failing, not the steepness of the hill. The front of his raincoat was wet and his knees were muddy long before he reached the summit. And with each step forward and upward the continuous roar of souiid grew louder. He was hot and tired by the time he reached the top of the ridge -- yet he instantly forgot his discomfort as he looked out across the wide bay. Like everyone else he had heard about The Falls since childhood and had seen countless photographs and films of them on television. Ail this preparation had not readied him for the impact of reality. He saw a falling ocean, a vergallons a second did people say came down? The Falls stretched out across the bay, their farthest reaches obscured by the clouds of floating spray. The bay seethed and boiled with the impact of that failing weight, raising foamcapped waves that crashed against the rocks below. Carter could feel the impact of the water on the solid stone as a vibration in the ground but all sound was swallowed up in the greater roar of The. Falls. This was a reverberation so outrageous and overpowering that his ears could not become accustomed to it. They soon felt numbed from the ceaseless impact but the very bones of the skull carried the sound to his brain, shivering and battering it. When he put his hands over his ears he was horrified to discover that The Falls were still as loud as ever. As he stood swaying and wide-eyed one of the constantly changing air currents that formed about the base of The Falls shifted suddenly and swept a wall of spray down upon him. The inundation lasted scant seconds but was heavier than any rainfall he had ever experienced, had ever believed possible. When it passed he was gasping for air, so dense had been the falling water. Quivering with nsations he had never before experienced. Carter turned and looked along the ridge toward the gray and water-blackened granite of the cliff and the house that huddled at its base like a stony blister. It was built of the same granite as the cliff and appeared no less solid. Running and slipping, his hands still over his ears. Carter hurried toward the house. For a shorttime the spray was blown across the bay and out to sea, so that golden afternoon sunlight poured down on the house, starting streamers of vapor from its sharply sloping roof. It was a no-nonsense building, as solid as the rock against which it pressed. Only two windows penetrated the blankness of the front that faced The Falls -- tiny and deep, they were like little suspicious eyes. No door existed here but Carter saw that a path of stone flags led around the corner.  He followed it and found -- set into the wall on the far side, away from The Falls -- a small and deepset entry. It had no arch but was shielded by a great stone lintel a good two feet in diameter. Carter stepped into the opening that framed the door and looked in vain for a knocker on the heavy, iron-bolted timbers. The unceasFalls made thinking almost impossible and it was only after he had pressed uselessly against the sealed portal that he realized that no knocker, even one as loud as cannon, could be heard within these walls above that sound. He lowered his hands and tried to force his mind to coherence. There had to be some way of announcing his presence. When he stepped back out of the alcove he noticed that a rusty iron knob was set into the wall a few feet away. He seized and twisted, it but it would not turn. However, when he pulled on it, although it resisted, he was able to draw it slowly away from the wall to disclose a length of chain. The chain was heavily greased and in good condition -- a fair omen. He continued to pull until a yard of chain emerged from the opening and then, no matter how hard he pulled, no more would come. He released the handle and it bounced against the rough stone of the wall. For sortie instants it hung there. Then with a jerky mechanical motion, the chain was drawn back into the wall until the knob once more rested in place. W hatever device this odd mechanism activated seemed to perfornt its desired function. In less than a minute the heavy door swung open and a man appeared in the opening. He examined his visitor wordlessly. The man who was much like the building and the cliffs behind it -- solid, no-nonsense, worn, lined and graying. But he had resisted the years even as he showed their marks upon him. His back was as straight as any young man's and his knob-knuckled hands had a look of determined strength. Blue were his eyes and very much the color of the water falling endlessly, thunderously, on the far side of the building. He wore knee-high fisherman's boots, plain corduroy pants and a boiled gray 'sweater. His face did not change expression as he waved Carter into the building. When the thick door had been swung shut and the many sealing bars shoved back into place the silence in the house took on a quality of its own. Carter had known absence of sound elsewhere -- here was a positive statement of noIF sound, a bubble of peace pushed right up against the very base of the all-sound of The Falls. He was .momentarily deafened and he knew it. But he was not so deaf that he did not know that the hammering thunder of The Falls had been shut outside. The other man must have sensed how his visitor felt. He nodded in a reassuring manner as he took Carter's coat, then pointed to a comfortable chair set by the deal table near the fire. Carter sank gratefully into the cushions. His host turned away and vanished, to return a moment later with a tray bearing a decanter and two glasses. He poured a measure of wine into each glass and set one down before Carter, who nodded and seized it in both hands to steady their shaking. After a first large gulp he sipped at it while the tremors died and his hearing slowly returned. His host moved about the room on various tasks and presently Carter found himself much recovered. He looked up. "I must thank you for your hospitality. When I came in I was -- shaken." "How are you now? Has the wine helped?" the man said loudly, almost shouting, and Carter realized that his own words had not been heard. Of course, the man must be hard of hearing. It was a wonder he was not stone deaf. "Very good, thank you," Carter shouted back. "Very kind of you indeed. My name is Carter. I'm a reporter, which is why I have come to see you." The man nodded, smiling slightly"My name is Bodum. You must know that if you have come here to talk to me. You write for the newspapers?" "I was sept here." Carter coughed -- the shouting was irritating his throat. "And I of course know you, Mr. Bodum -- that is I know you by reputation. You're the Man by The Falls." "Forty-three years now," Bodum said with solid pride, "I've lived here and have never been away for a single night. Not that it has been easy. When the wind is wrong the spray is blown over the house for days and it is hard to breathe -- even the fire goes out. I built the chimney myself -- there is a bend part way up with baffles and doors. The smoke goes up -- but if water comes down the baffles stop it and its weight opens the doors and it drains away through a pipe to the outside. I can show you where it drains -- black with soot the wall is there." While Bodum talked Carter looked around the room at the dim furniture shapes barely seen in the wavering light from the fire and at the two windows set into the wall. "Those Windows," he said, "You put them in yourself? May I look out?" "Took a year apiece, each one. Stand on ttiat bench. It will bring you to the right level. They're armored glass, specially made, solid as the wall around them now that I have them anchored well. Don't be afraid. Go right up to it. The window's safe. Look how the glass is anchored." the glass but at The Falls outside. He had not realized how close the building was to the falling water. It was perched on the very edge of the cliff and nothing was to be seen from this vantage point except the wall of blackened wet granite to his right and the foaming maelstrom of the bay far below. And before him, above him, thickness of wall and glass could not cut out their sound completely and when he touched the heavy pane with his fingertips he could feel the vibration of the water's impact. The window did not lessen the effect The Falls had upon him but it enabled him to stand and watch and think, as he had been unable to do on the outside. It was very much like a peephole into a holocaust of water -- a window into a cold hell. He could watch without being destroyed -- but the fear of what was on the other side did not lessen. Something black flickered in the falling water and was gone. "There -- did you see that," he called out. "Something came down The Falls. What could it possibly be?" Bodiim nodded wisely. "Over forty years I have been here and I can show you what comes down The Falls." He thrust a splint into the fire and lit a lamp from it. Then, picking up the lamp, he waved Carter after him. They crossed the room and he held the light to a large glass bell jar. "Must be twenty years ago it washed up. on the shore. Every bone in its body broke too. Stuffed anf mounted it myself." Carter pressed close, looking at the staring shoe-button es and the gaping jaws and pointed teeth. The limbs were stiff and unnatural, the body under the fur bulging in the wrong places. Bodum was by no means a skilful taxidermist. Yet, perhaps by accident, he had captured a look of terror in the animal's expression and stance. "It's a dog," Carter said. "Very much like other dogs." Bodum was offended, his voice as cold as shout can be. "Like them, perhaps, but not of them. Every bone broken I told you. How else could a dog have appeared here in this bay?" "I'm sorry, I did not mean to suggest for an instant -- Down The Falls, of course. I just meant it is so much like the dogs we have that perhaps there is a whole new world up there. Dogs and everything, just like ours." "I never speculate," Bodum IF said, mollified. "I'll make some coffee." He took the lamp to the stove and Carter, left alone in the partial darkness went back to the window. It drew him. "I must ask you some questions for my article," he said but did not speak loudly enough for Bodum to hear.' Everything he had meant to do here seemed irrelevant as he looked out at The Falls. The wind shifted. The spray was briefly blown clear and The Falls were once more a mighty river coming down from the sky. When he canted his head he saw exactly as if he were looking across a river. And there, upstream, a ship appeared, a large liner with rows of portholes. It sailed the surface of the river faster than ship had ever sailed before and he had to jerk his head to follow its motion. When it passed, no more than a few hundred yards away, for one instant he could see it clearly. The people aboard it were hanging to the rails, some with their mouths open' as though shouting in fear. Then it was gone and there was only the water, rushing endlessly by. "Did you see it?" Carter shouted, spinning about. "The coffee will be ready soon." "There, out there," Carter cried, taking Bodum by the arm. "In The Falls. It was a ship, I swear it was, falling from up above. With people on it. There must be a whole world up there that we know nothing about." B odum reached up to the shelf for a cup, breaking Carter's grip with the powerful movement of his arm. "My dog came down The Falls. I found it and stuffed it myself." "Your dog, of course. I'll not deny that. But there were people on that ship and I'll swear -- I'm not mad -- that their skins were a different color from ours." "Skin is skin, just skin color." "I know. That is what we have. But it must be possible for skins to be other colors, even if we dbn't know about it." "Sugar?" "Yes, please. Two." Carter sipped at the coffee -- it was strong and warm. In spite of himself he was drawn back to the window. He looked out and sipped at the coffee -- and started when something black and formless came down. And other things. He could not tell what they were because the spray was blowing toward the house again. He tasted grounds at the bottom of his cup and left the last sips. He put the cup carefully aside. Again the eddying wind currents shifted the screen of spray to one side just in time for him to see another of the objects go by. "That was a house! I saw it as clearly as I see this one. But wood Please turn to page #) State Thruway at the Rome exit and head north along Route # you'll be close to one of the most desolate areas in the northeast. Geographers call it the Tug Hill Upland -- or Tug Hill. The early settlers avoided it as did the Oneidas and the Onondagas before them. Tug Hill has some of the dreariest landscape in the country. you leave the ski centers and the little villages on its borders. July mean temperatures are below # and the growing season is short. Vast areas of burned-over land mark where farmers once tried to grow crops or graze animals on the thin soils overlying Paleozoic sandstone, limestone and shale. The old logging roads that lead into Tug Hill are impassable in winter -- the snowfall totals nearly He accepted a long-distance call from a woman who loved him beyond one life and kept talking through another! IF two hundred inches. In April thirty-three. I have most of mythere are snowbanks higher than hair and my features are regular, a car and the mist rises eerily over Before I left the campus I had to the scene of thwarted dreams. Few fend off the occasional coed who venture into the upland's emptithought it would be fun to discuss ness even in summer except fisherthe spicier parts 'of Chaucer or men and an occasional hiker. Swinburne over a drink in my I live here, though, and I like it. bachelor apartment. And when I My name is Walter Hurd. I talk was a newcomer to Central New to the stars. I'm keeping a journal York -- I grew up in Utah -- a pert during my sabbatical year away little junior persuaded me to take from the university. her to the submarine races in OnI'm an academic type, pushing ondaga Lake. What happens in these nightly events is that you park on the shore and since the submarines are submerged there's nothing to see. So you neck. I had been at the university for years, first as an undergraduate, then as a graduate student and teaching assistant and finally as an A.B.D. That is, I have all but my dissertation toward a Ph.D., the college professor's union card. What with teaching and serving on a dozen committees and being conscientious about student activities and dabbling in politics (I ran for the city council and lost to a man whose parentage and mixed marriage appealed to the three biggest ethnic groups in town), I had no time to finish the dissertation. Then I won a fellowship. I interested the Guggenheims in research I was doing on Stephen Crane's lost manuscripts. Crane had been a stringer for some upstate papers and during his brief stay on campus he'd lived at the Delta Upsilon house. There were fragntents of his work around, waiting to be identified. The dean of faculties granted me a leave of absence and I rented an old farmhouse about an hour's ride north of town. I didn't know then that the farm sat on the western slope of Tug Hill. I didn't even know then that there was a place called Tug Hill. Neither do most people -- they refer to it vaguely as the snow belt or that good trout stream country up there. Mostly they're talking about the edges of the Tug Hill Upland (or Escarpment, as the geologists say)places like Orwell, Smartville, Osceola, New Boston, Constableville or Turin. These are villages and hamlets -- not big but at least occupied. Nothing occupies Tug Hill proper except snowshde rabbits, deer, secondary growth-and me. How this came .about is that my old friend, the assistant dean of liberal arts, whose name is Mel Oliphant and .who bowls every week with Jerry Boyd, the assistant director of research and development, drove up to my rented farm one September Saturday with a six-pack of cold beer. Mel and I climbed one of the drumlins that came with the place and looked out over the countryside to where Lake Ontario shimmered on the western horizon. He asked me how things were going. "Just fine," I told him. Except, I said, that maybe I'd been illadvised to specialize in the unpublished writings of Stephen Crane. "A lot of it is pretty crude, with just a nugget here and there to foreshadow the greatness." Actually, most of what I'd found was discouraging. Mel tried to cheer me up. He got me to admit that I'd come across a line here and a paragraph there which Crane had apparently reworked later into The Blue HoIF tel or The Red Badge or The Black Riders. I did get excited then, remembering, and quoted a paragraph Fd found in an #I issue of the university newspaper and another fragment Fd exhumed from a magazine f literary pretensions that had been put out by the brothers of Delta Upsilon. The magazine piece was signed S.C. and although records showed that in the nineties there'd been another DU named Sherman Caldwell I was fairly certain Fd recognized the Crane touch. "Did Caldwell publish anything else?" Mel asked. I told him Fd have to research that next time I was in town. "Let me do it for you," he said. "Fve got an eager new grad assistant. Fve also got a proposition for you if you're not tied up in a long-term lease." I told him I rented on a monthto-month basis. "This may not interest an exalted Guggenheim fellow-" "Cut it ouL Mel," I told him. He's a summa cum laude from Brown and the youngest college dean south of the snow belt. He said: "No kidding -- our boss couldn't be more pleased if he'd got the fellowship himself. You're onethird of all the Guggenheims on campus this year, you k'now." Then Mel told me about the job RD had. "Easy work, room and board included. Lots of time for your own project. The only thing is, it's right in the middle of Tug Hill. Nowhere, in other words. You'd be a hermit." I didn't have to think about it long. "Suits me," I said. "Outside of my weekly trip to the general store and maybe to a movie Fm already a hermit. But what's Tug Hill?" Mel hadn't known either until Jerry Boyd told him, so he was full of fresh information. I was fascinated. I turned my back on Lake Ontario to stare east. But all I could see was Jerry Look Road (dirt) at the foot of my rented drumlin and a scrub forest rising behind it. "Will they bring beer with my provisions?" I asked. "This is a local-option township. I have to go clear to Richland for a sixpack -- but Tug Hill sounds like Carry Nationsville." "Fm sure that can be part of the deal." We wandered down to the brook where we'd left the last two cans to cool and drank them, talking and watching a herd of cows pastured at the farm; for the summer. Then, since Mel wasn't spending the night, we drove both cars to Pulaski and had dinner. I went back to the farm nd did some work, then went to bed. At the end of the monthll drove to the campus to get briefed and sign a contract and arrange to store my car. At # a.m. on the Hrst of October I took up residence in the trailer at Tug Hill. trailer had been set down by helicopter on a previously laid concrete foundation full of electronic gear. I can't write about that -- I couldn't even get in. The gear in the basement had needed no attention since it was installed. I did, though. In my first few months at Tug Hill I went frombeing a loner who thought the solitary job was what I'd been looking for all my life to a man who thought he'd go crazy waiting for the next arrival of the copter. April was the cruelest month. The radio told me it was a bewbew-beautiful day in Watertown but I looked out on an eerie landscape. Snow covered the lee sides of hills and mist rising from them moved in a slight wind. The mist drifted over everything and the cloud-shrouded sun gave it just enough substance to invest it with menace, as if something else might be drifting with it. The ghosts of residents past, I thought. The daunted pioneers, the discouraged settlers, the disappoint explorers. I was sick to death of winter. I was restive, Spring was stirring within me and I felt like going to the submarine races. I felt like telling RD I wanted out, to get itself another boy. Instead I made myself a cheese sandwich, heavy on the mustard, drank a beer and tried to console myself with Crane. I hadn't been doing much with the Crane project, though I'd had all the time in the world. My RD duties occupied me two hours a day. The job was a sinecure but I could see why it had been hard to fill. No family man would sign up for a year away from the wife and kids. Nor would it entice any healthy young chap who liked the submarine races. I wondered myself whether I could stick it out, though the worst was behind me -- the incredible nothing of a winter in Tug Hill. No one had told me it was normal for the snow to be up to the level of the high windows of the trmler six months out of the year. One unbelievable day I had to tunnel from the door to the windswept knoll where the ski-equipped helicopter landed. Now the leaves were coming out. The juices were stirring in me, too. My contract ran to the end of September and I supposed I'd keep my word to RD. The job was part of a classified government project. I'd been given just enough information to enable me to handle it. It was obvious that the work was connected with the space program and at first I thought I was sending signals to asatellite and recording the bounceback. But that wasn't it. Gradually it dawned on me that IF I was talking to the stars. Or trying to. The signals I sent out once a day were Earth's attempt to find somebody intelligent out there in the void. I knew there was at least one other station doing the same thing and maybe there were many. I'd read about the pioneering West Virginia project, Ozma, named for the princess in The Wizard of Oz. What did they call me? I wondered. The Tin Woodman? The Hermit of Tug Hill? And whom was I supposed to be talking to? Another person like me? A machine? I didn't know at first what my messages said but I imagined they'd been pretty carefully thought out. One plus one equals two. The square of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides. E equals mc. All mathematical. It was dull stuff to me, an exEnglish lit major who took as few math courses as the degree requirements permitted. It could be dull for them out there, too, if anyone were listening. I didn't suppose our signal encoders had put much faith in Chaucer or Shakespeare or Crane. But by spring I was asking myself why not use a line or two from our glorious heritage of language? Shouldn't the people out-there, if there are any, hear some of the best we've got? They couldn't all be mathematicians. Why not send a bit of Chaucer? It would seem appropriate to the nature of the experiment to beam a few words from The Canterbury Tales: What is this world? whatasketh man to have? Now with his love, now in his colde grave A Hone, withouten any companye. They might have the answer out there. Or send some Stephen Crane: A man said to the universe: "Sir, I exist!" Perhaps omit what the cynical Stephen imagined to be the universe's reply: "However," replied the universe, "The fact has not created in nie A sense of obligation. " T he messages were transmitted in a narrow beam, with no interference from man-made noise You can't get that kind of pure projection from just anywhere. Except for what went up from my trailer the only sounds Tug Hill produced were nature's own. The humming of the bee, the soughing of the wind in the leaves, the chirp of the bird. And, occasionally, when I went out to lie on my back and stare up into the infinity of stars, the lonely voice of me. Hey, up there -- hey... And I found myself writing messages to aliens. That's inexact. I was writing to one alien, an extraterrestrial and, because I was the kind of person I was, I imagined my unknown friend to be female and young and attractive. Therefore one of the givens, as we academic types say, was that she was human. I didn't think I'd fln) much joy in a saurian or a scaly sea-creature or a spider-lady, however complnentary our minds might be. At first I wrote the messages but didn't send them. I couldn't, at that stage, because I didn't know how. My job was so simple that all I had to do was flick switches, adjust dials and make a few log entries that even an A.B.D. in liberal arts could be trusted to do. I supposed it could have been done by remote control, electronically, but probably RD didn't yet rely on machines to that extent. I had never asked many questions about my job except to get the overview. But I watched carefully the next time a young technician collected and replaced the tapes and copied the log. It was a fine day and after he'd done his work he wasn't anxious to get right back. Without seeming to, I brought the conversation around to the equipment he had serviced. He probably thought it was idle shop talk. I learned a great deal. After he flew back I went over it in my mind. The message beam from Earth went out for 'one hour a day -- at # a.m., saying exactly the same thing, stopping always at the same time. This punctuality and repetition, I assumed, were an important part of the transmission. If I were monitoring another section oflfie galaxy and it were sending at constant intervals for an exact length of time -- even though the length of our days were different and the transmission gibberish -- I'd get the message that somebody was trying to strike up an intelligent conversation with an intergalaetic pal. Earth's message to the stars wasn't monitored by the senders -- you don't need a record of what you yourself are saying, especially when you say the same thing over and over. I'd also understood from the technician that Earth listening stations were all over the globe and that my little installation couldn't measure up to most. Still, it has been fitted with a piece of sophisticated new equipment RD was trying out. So Tug Hill listened for an hour a day, late in th afternoon. That was the other part of my job, to switch on the monitor at # P.M. There was a fair-sized dish antenna set up in a natural bowl about a mile from the trailer. I'd never IF known it was there -- my technician friend pointed it out during our talk. At any rate I now knew enough about the equipment to start playing with it. II what I did in no way interfered with the RD project. I merely supplemented it in my own humanisticway. To start with, I put messages from old Geoffrey Chaucer #tnd young Stephan Crane on tape. I used my best lecture-hall voice. I didn't know how to encode it so it would sound like that mathematical stuff, nor would I have wanted it to sound that way. It seemed to me that the RD people were underestimating the aliens by sticking to mathematics. For all their modern equipment they were merely using a variation of a #th century notion I'd read about. Gauss, the German physicist, had Wanted to plant hundreds of miles of #rees on the Siberian tundra in the form of a Pythagorean triangle for the aliens to see. I didn't think RD was doing much better. One Tuesday morning in July,after I'd disconnected the official transmission, I sent my voice and the thoughts of Chaucer and Crane out into space. I began to keep a personal log as part of my journal, in which I'd been making only desultory entries. I was nervous the first time and left my tape on for no more than five minutes. Later in the day, after wandering around outside, kicking at low clumps of sun-faded grass and eating handfuls of wild blueberries, I went back and remade the tape, reversing the order of the quotations and opening with I put that on the beam the second day, at #:# A.M., for ten minutes. Getting bolder, you see. I ran it at that time for the rest of the week. Then, on Sunday, I replaced it with a longerjcnessage, expanding Chaucer and adding Shakespeare .and Keats. (The poetry of earth is never dead...) I let that one run for twenty-five minutes, from #:# to #:#, for seven days. Meanwhile I'd decided to talk to the stars in my own words. No harm in that, I told myself. At worst I was using up a few minutes of power but whh three generators available RD could spare it. At best I was providing a new avenue of communication with the putative aliens who, for all anyone knew, might be more word than number-oriented. Certainly I would be if I were a listener. Even if I didn't know the lanuage I might sense the poetry. My own words, I knew, wouldn't rival Keats' or Shakespcare's or even Crane's or Saroyan's. But they would reflect the human microcosm that I was. As such they might just evoke a human response in a far-off listener. I told myself this in justification for the unethical thing I was doing. It was my rationalization but not my reason. My reason was simply that I had to coipmunicate with somebody. If I'd had a girl who meant anything to me I'd probably have written to her instead . But no such correspondent was available, so I chose an unknown space lady, imagining her as a sympathetic person of mature (say # to #) years who stood flve-three and was as proportioned as all get-out, in a terrestrial way, but who had, withal, an intelligence that wouldn't bore me. I spent a lot of time on drafts of my message. I threw them all away because they looked as if I'd worked hard at them instead of saying what I really meant. So I started over and it came out easily because I was talking about what I was doing and how I got here and about Tug Hill. A lot. of it was what I've already written. I began reading into the tape. "If you get off the New York State Thruway at the Rome exit and head north..." And that was what I transmitted to anyone out there who might be listening. The next afternoon I began taping where I'(il left off and' transmitted that. It was as representative of me, and therefore of Earth (because I was of Earth) as anything I could haVe composed specifically for the starcast -- so I read the aliens my journal in ten-minutes installments, concluding very soon that it wasn't half bad for that purpose. And one day I had an answer. message replied tlirectly to me. It didn't. What came in was the voice of one intelligent human being speaking to another -- but I don't want to mislead you into thinking it said anything like, "Hello," Walter; Yours of recent date received and contents noted..." But it did tell me as clearly as if the speaker were at my elbow that an individual out there -- and not a member of some RD team -- was saying something to another individual. It was a person-to-person call, so to speak, not station-to-station. More than that -- the person calling was a woman. Dear friend beyond the range of my present acquaintance -- Greetihgs from one whose words may never bring a reply but who nonetheless yearns to communicate. I have spoken to you IF in the past but you may not have heard. If you have -- I know you forgive the repetition. My time is short because I speak in many directions, the better to reach you wherever you are. But FU be back, at what will be the same time of day for me, though for you it may vary by (word illegible). Please listen again, my friend. You can imagine my excitement. I played the tape over and over. The voice was that of a young woman -- I felt confident of that -- intelligent and intimate. She spoke again nine hours, four minutes and thirty-two seconds later. I hadn't slept in the meantime. This time she said: Greetings, my friend across the void -- it has been a day for me but probably a different interval for you. To be that alike would be too much to hope for. But We are alike in other ways -- we must be if you hear me and understand. My time is short because I speak in many directions, the better to reach you wherever you are. I am happy today as the result of a visit from (word unclear). He tells me I am right to continue my quest. howeverothers may scornme. Listen again, my friend beyond. Please hear me. I glowed at her words. But I also found myself jealous of her other hearers on other worlds -- and of her visitor. Think of that! I envied him his closeness to her and the regard in which she held him. I was probably a little nutty and overimaginative from lack of sleep, the season and my environment but I felt strongly about her -- and so record it in my journal. Before I could go to bed I had to get ready for my regular RD transmission, to be followed by my clandestine one. The RD beeps over with, I read the next segment of my journal into the tape and sent it off. I prefaced it, trembling, with the daring words: "Dear friend across the void." It was as much as I could bring myself to improvise, feeling then -- irrational from lack of sleep -- that to say more would be to tempt the fates against me and jeopardize my tenuous contract. Then I slept, first having set my alarm for the interval that would wake me in time for her next message. She was there, on time to the second. I logged it in my journal as I listened: I greet you once more, unknown friend from afar. If you've heard me speak before you'll know that I am (unclear) of (unclear). My time is short because I speak in many directions, the better to reach you wherever you are.  Let me tell you about myself. I am called a Vemban. I am able to reproduce my kind, although I have not yet done so, with one of the other sex of my species. But this is in the future. My life partner and I have not yet chosen each other. Listen again, friend beyond the stars." I was jealous again, this time of the person of the other sex of her species who one day would help her reproduce her kind. Stung, I immediately prepared the tape of my next transmission and prefaced it with the words: "Never mind him. Star Girl; wait for me." I went no further -- I was appalled at my temerity in going that far -- except to read the third extract from my journal.  O NE of the consolations of my being stuck in this uninhabited vastness had been that I had had time to read. I had been able to give some attention to questions of a scholarly nature, such as: Where did Tug Hill get its name? Well, you'd think to find the answer would be simple. But I'd read Adam Lascaris's A Brief History of the North Country (Lowville Press, #) and Peter B. Felshaw's privately printed monograph West of the Adirondocks and East of Lake Ontario (#?) and Martin McVickar's Ordovician Ode (an undated epic preserved in the Lewis County Archives) and Fairchild Hovey's nostalgic study. Snow Belt, which ran in several issues of the WaterTown Times in #. But not until I'd found a letter to the editor of the Syracuse Post-Standard y reprinted in a # volume marking the #th anniversary of James C. Constable's historic horseback ride did I get a hint. The writer of the letter was a professor emeritus of geography at Cazenovia College. He suggested that the name was associated with the fact that the area was once a lumbering center and pointed out that part of the harness of a work horse was a tug. Since the area abounded in hills everything had to be tugged in behind a horse. Therefore... Dear God (or whoever you revere. Star Girl), is this what I have on my mind? Is this all I can say to you when I long to share my innermost soul? I'm inhibited by our insufficient contact, of course. IF by the possibility of eavesdroppers, by the suspicion that you don't exist -- that in my isolation I've made you up in iny mind. But this is the way I am, now at this point in time, and I won't have you see me other than as I am -- not if you're who I hope you are. Star Girl -- not if we are to know each other at whatever impossible distance. Star Girl! Was I out of my cautious, expensively-educated mind? Was this scientific method? I was beginning to sound like somebody in a comic book or a Japanese monster movie. But I had to call her something. She told me she was a Veinban, whatever that was, but she had no name I could speak. In the end I left my impetuous words on the tape. I went out and hiked the scrubland, thinking only of her. Star Girl. Space Girl. StarSpace Girl. Stacy. Stacy, my love. Now wasn't that absolutely ridiculous? I beheaded a daisy with my boot, lost my balance and fell. I stayed down to inspect a circle of ferns at their own level, then lay back and stared into the sky, presumably in her direction. Stacy! I couldn't help it. She was out there somewhere. I'd heard her and maybe one day she'd hear me. A bee came by. Was it possible that the intelligent life which had developed on her planet (Vemba?) was bee-shaped? I couldn't have loved a bee, no matter how compatible our minds, but because Stacy might be one I suffered this one's approach. It buzzed close, honey-hunting. Maybe Stacy was at this moment (between transmissions) staring up into her alien sky, beyond which lay me. Stacy! Are you thinking of me? My Earthbound bee hovered, buzzing comfortably, then darted off to a whole tJaisy and went to work. Its job was simple. Mine had been, too, until Stacy spoke. Now I was possessed. I was in love with a voice from infinity. Madness. Intelligent Earthman that I was, holder of an M.A., part-time apprentice scientist entrusted with an important experiment, gatherer of new knowledge. I'd gone crazy over a voice which, if I allowed myself to think rationally about it, must have come from so far off that its owner and I could never hope to meet. And my own voice, speaking its insignificant message, would reach no one until I was long departed. It was a clean miss. I rolled over on my stomach and stabbed out a hand to behead the daisy the bee had lately left I missed. I cried then, into a clump of moss under my face. Stacy. I breathed into its bloom. After a while I got up and went inside and listened over and over to the tapes of her three messages. Oh, my girl. Oh, my friend. Oh, my impossible love... entry read). Thumbing back in my journal, I see that at times I've been overemotional, not to say of my mind, while at other times I've written calculatingly, addressing a "you" as if posterity would be interested in every detail of my small adventure. Am I beginning to see in myself a historical figure like Constable, the early explorer of this outlier of , the Appalachian Plateau? ("Outlier" is a geographer's term I've picked up.) Constable, having ridden horseback along hundreds of miles of wilderness trail, remarked to his own notebook that twenty-six miles in eight hours was pretty good speed, ltacy's voice, preserved here light-years from its source on Vemba, wherever that is, has also traveled at a good speed. And my voice? Is it being heard? It says in the books that James' French emigres more than half a The plan was to build a little Paris in the heart of the Great Woods. That was in #. They were going to call it Castorland because of its potential fortune in beaver pelts. So there are precedents for one's dreams. Is mine more fantastic than Constable's? Instead of an outlier of old France, laid out like an architect's dream, he has a hamlet of a handful of souls, named for him on a crossroads to nowhere. But I'm not trying to build a civilization, merely to reach one. Constable sought his in the wilderness of a young America -- I seek mine in the ancient sky. From that sky again came her voice. Once a day I sit in the brief glow of noon and direct my thoughts to him who may hear. There is little more I can say. Most of the time now I merely exult in the brief blue heat which comforts me for so short a time. It is then, as I bask, that I permit myself to hope that in the lands beyond this bleak world there lives one to whom I can speak. And in speaking, how shall I know that he will hear? Or hearing, understand? Or understanding, reply? I have none of the answers but I speak nonetheless. It is my hope to speak to one like me, rather than to a creature of unrecognizable or incompatible form. IF Preferably he should not be an insect or a quadruped or a scaly amphibian. If he is any of hese he may forgive me for being a lonely chauvinist.  It's time to talk to Stacy again. Stacy the non-bee. Or is it my turn to listen for her? The intervals grow complicated and confusing. I must leave my journal and check my charts. I'm coming, Stacy! What shall I tell her? Dear Star Girl -- we should know eachother, not just because our worlds must communicate for the good of science, for the advancement of knowledge -- but because I'm lonesome and maybe you are, too. There's a time when nothing you have, or can foresee having, is quite enough. You yearn for more, even if what you need is unattainable, even if you're reaching too far. How much farther could I reach than to Stacy? For all I knew she could be clamshaped or so alien that I would be unable even to comprehend her shape. But in my mind she was -- she had to be -- a desirable, lovely, slim girl with all the Earthlike qualities and gradations of form that make slim lovely girls desirable. I was in love with the Stacy I wanted her to be -- though she might have died before I was born. Ill T hen there was silence. I heard the voice no longer. Had she spoken her last? Had she become bored with what could only have been a pastime? I had no answers. I could only speculate. Loneliness engulfed me. My sense of desolation increased tenfold. Thinking that she might have altered her intervals of transmission, I listened for twenty-four hours without a break, drinking all the remaining with her name. Stacy, Stacy, Stacy... She was gone. The impossible contact had been broken. Questioning my sanity and distrusting my journal entries, I played the tapes to convince myself that I had actually heard her. Without a fresh message from her to inspire me there was nothing for me to tell the sky. For a while I repeated the first tapes I had made -- "Hello out there -- " but my heart wasn't in them. I moped around, routinely sending RD's mathematical messages, doing my job and little else. I gave up shaving and ate only when hunger forced me to. I spent a lot of time sitting outside the trailer in the sun, doing absolutely nothing. The only creative thought I had was that this was one of the few times in my life when I could get an allover suntan but I couldn't muster the energy to take off my clothes, much less shave the beard, now two weeks thick and beginning to get greasy from sloppy eating. Then I heard a new voice. T'd gone back one more time and listened, certain I'd hear nothing, and prepared to slouch outside for a few more hours of vegetablelike absorption of sunshine. The voice was clearer than the other had been. It tingled the back of my scalp. It said: Hello, down there, my friend on Tug Hill... Like the other, it spoke English. But this was that of a more contemporary person. I knew it -- there was a lilt, an air of excitement and purpose that the other had lacked. It was also a woman's voice, or a girl's. But the marvel was that she was speaking to me, her "friend on Tug Hill." My skepticism fought that for a while -- it was more than I could locally accept. But who else could she be talking to? The postmistress at' Lyons Falls? The ham operator in Port Leyden? No -- I wouldn't have it. This new Star Girl was speaking to me -- to me and to no one else. Her message was short. I wondered if she'd had to sneak it in after the official transmission, as I had done. I heard you speak and then you stopped. I hope you will speak again. I'll be in touch with you several times again before... I must leave you now. There isn't time. Listen bgain, you on Tug Hill. Do listen. And speak to me. My joy in the contact was tempered by her statement that our talks wolild be limited to "several." Why? There isn't time. What was happening? I was plunged into gloom. Had I reestablished communication only to have it broken again? This would be too cruel. Bbt she had asked me to listen again. I reran the tape to verify that. 'Listen again, you on Tug Hill. Do listen... I yelled and got up. I ran around like a wild man, knocking . things over, hurting myself. Holding a painful elbow, I howled as if my sound could reach her without the transmitter. "Stacy! Stacy-Stacy-Stacy!" I grabbed the log book to see when my next transmission would be. Soon. I got up to pace back and forth, to think what to say. IF As I passed the mirror over the wash basin I had a shock. The reflection was of a filthy mad-eyed creature with matted hair and beard and grease-stained clothing. I tore off my clothes and threw them out the door. Then showered and shaved.  N ever mind what I said to her. What matters is that I was clean and alive when I said it, and that later she replied. She said: Dear Friend on Tug Hill: I feel I know you well. I have heard your voice, although you did not address me then. And although I have another name Vd like to be your Stacy. Fm a lonesome one like you even if Fm surrounded by many like me. I envy your privacy. Do you know who it was you talked to? Do you know the woman who spoke to you, not knowing you would hear but hoping someone would hear? She is a part of me. She is dead now, poor unfulfilled thing, sweet lady who lives in me. She died in her favorite place, in her garden, in the brief warmth of noon, with a smile I shall remember. I was there, a child at her feet on the sere grass, listening, as her words came to an end. She said this: "I am old, child, and can hope no longer, but you may see a land my voice has reached. I can do no more and soon I will know what I have only imagined." It was my grandmother's voice you heard and I bless you for answering her, though she never heard you. I answer for her. Will you speak to me now as you spoke to her? May I be your Space Girl, your Star Girl, your Stacy? , Would I? Might she? I caa't remember all I said but it was impassioned and wild. I spoke to her directly -- out of my heart, not my notebooks -- and my message went out live. It's probably just as well I have no transcript. Fd be embarrassed to hear it played back. But I excused myself. I was an old friend of the family. Hadn't I known her grandmother? She replied as openly, as warmly. Fm talking to you as I would to myself, Walter. That's a compliment. It means you make me feel comfortable, as if Fd known you as long as I've known me. Oh, I do hope to meet you! Do you think they'll let us? They must! We'll see to it, won't we? I won't look beyond that. I must go. Til talk to you again. Speak to me! It was agony to have to wait for the next transmission. I had so many questions to ask. What did she mean about hoping to meet me? Was it possible? Would who let us? Was she -- could she be -- was it too much to believe that she was on her way to Earth from whatever land was hers? She answered my questions in her own way, possibly because her opportunities were limited -- possibly, I hoped, because she was as excited as I. I'm attracted to you, chance-chosen resident of Tug Hill. I think you're attracted to me. I must identify myself further so you won't mistake me for one of the other females aboard the Forerunner I'd hate that. I'm me, Stacy, not one of them, though you might be misled. I must be sure you know me when we arrive -- it can't be otherwise. I'll know, but how will you? Shall we have a password? A secret sign? A way of meeting? I'll think about that between now and the time we speak again. The Forerunner -- a spaceship? Arriving on Earth? It was what I had hoped, but I had hoped wijdly. unscientifically. A spaceship froni where? A spaceship whose crew spoke English? Fantastic! All at once I doubted that I had heard anything on the RD equipment -- the madman in the mirror had made it up after nearly a year at Tug Hill. It was obviously an occupational hazard, a ilelirium, a fermented fruit of loneliness, a wilderness-bred hallucination. T hey didn't often call me on the microwave fromRD. Mostly when they did it was to say I had a letter, usually from Mom, and I'd tell them it could wait till the end of the month -- or that the put some stuff together for pickup. This time they had a news item I wasn't going to hear on the commercial broadcasts for some time. The RD director told me contact had been made with a nonterrestrial space vehicle that was approach.ing Earth. They were most excited about a theory that the ship was homing on my signals from Tug Hill. Their information was frustratingly vague and technical. The alien ship was in the such-andsuch quadrant, traveling at suchand-such speed, which presumably would bring it to Earth, unless its course deviated, in so many days. Next Tuesday, in translation. "How do you know all this? I asked. "They told us." "How? Mathematically?" IF "No; that's the funny thing. In clear speech." "Speech?" I asked, innocent. "English. Don't ask me why. Excuse me -- Washington's on the phone. Jerry can fill you in on the rest." Jerry came on. "How about that, Walter-baby, you talker to the stars?" "How big is the ship? How many are aboard? What are they like?" "Unknown. But they do say they come in peace, on a mission of exploration." "That's nice," I said. "It'd he hell if they were unfriendly. I'd hate to see us invaded." "Don't be flippant. Aren-'t you aware of the importance of this moment in which you share?The historicity?" "Congratulations," I said. "I'm proud to be in #n.it. Is there anything you want me to do?" Jerry said that until further notice I was to carry on as usual but that I should report any deviations from the norm. That was the way he put it and that's the way I'm carrying out his orders. The messages from my space girl had become my norm and technically I wasn't obligated to tell RD that my interplanetary lady friend and I had established a prior rapport. After all, the rights of the individual transcend those of the state. Or so I've always assumed in my humanistic way. You can imagine with what eagerness I looked forward to my next message from Stacy. She didn't fail me. Promptly at our complicated rendezvous time I heard her voice. It was no hallucination. She spoke in English, with intelligence, humor, eagerness. But she did skip around, not really answering my questions or answering those I hadn't yet thought to ask. She also told me a story. One reason I'm aboard is that yours is largely a water world and I've made a study of the creatures that inhabit the depths. There's another reason but my vanity prevents me mentioning it. I was lonely as a child and some of my most satisfactory relationships were.with such creatures. I had a boat then in which I went out to summon them from the depths. They rose and stuck their snouts above the surface #nd I talked to them. They did tricks for me. They surfaced and dived, surfaced and came to be tickled on their undersides. Once a group of them, after playing in this way, stood their tails in the air and dived deep. They came back with a friend they introduced with proud cavortings. Their friend was a big flat fellow, dull-white and eyeless. He repelled me at first. But he wanted to be tickled too. When I put aside my repugnance and obliged him he swam in furious circles around the boat, then paused close by to be tickled again. I had the feeling that he was thanking me. It was as if, lacking eyes, he were expressing himself to me in another way I could not yet understand. My fear of him gone, I leaned far over the side toward him and fell out, swamping the boat. I was a good swimmer but far from shore. The boat sank as I tried to right it. The sea creature circled me, unseeing but aware of my position. I swam determinedly but the shore seemed no closer. He came up under me so that I was able to sit upright on his broad back and cling to a bony protuberance above his snout. I hung on and he took me to shore in zigzags, as if to prolong his role of savior. I sensed his enjoyment, which increased when I said,Thank you." He understood me. In later days I came to understand him. We took many sea rides and became friends. Fm glad I had more time to talk today, Walter. I've been thinkiiig about how we should meet. Will you meet me, Walter? I assured her, when it was my turn to speak, that I would. Then I told her what I'd learned from the RD people and confessed my guilt at not having let them know earlier what I had known. I mean, iconoclasm should go only so far. Still, to have told them would have been to have risked their laughter. What could I have said at that point? And if I had spoken they'd probably have yank me out of here for skeptical conferences and sent in a hard-headed team of technicians. Then who would have talked to Stacy? Stacy couldn't be bothered with my crisis of conscience. Her captain was talking to them, she said -- it was all being handled at the proper level, officially. Besides, Stacy had a plan for us at the unofficial level. This is what I'll do, Walter. I'll come to you from out of the sea. The inland sea in which we are to end our journey. You probably know they've radioed us information from which we drew maps. The place is called Lake Ontario. Isn't that nice? I'll come to you from there. I'll be your lady of the lakh. Now listen. Do you have a map like ours? Do you see the places called Watertown in your country and Kingston in Canada? Almost where lines drawn south IF from Kingston and west from Watertown meet in the Lake there's an island called Galloo... Stacy seemed to have lots of time. She went over the plans twice. Finally she answered some of my questions. For the first time she told me the name of her people, although rd heard it before from her grandmother. They were Vembans, from the land called Vemba. She was vague about where it was, in my terms, but she knew its history, including its generations-old tradition of exploratory, voyages to Vembalike planets.  The explorer teams had failed again and again to discover planets inhabitable by beings like themselves but had extended the range of their space voyages until one day they found Earth. But it was an Earth barely evolved beyond the sea stage. Nothing had yet crawled ashore to the still-smoking land. Nevertheless the Vembans studied the new land and when they returned home they took with them some of the sea creatures. By the time of a later voyage to Earth there were inhabitants on its land masses. Again they returned to Vemba with specimens which were not yet man but which gave promise. ' The third voyage to Earth was a cause for rejoicing. The specimens it yielded were a pair of brutish humanoids who had begun to use tools. The fourth voyage was the first to be recorded by Earth's historians -- in tablets of clay. The people : the Vembans found had advanced spectacularly. They had built cities and mastered the rudiments of astronomy and their rulers were preserved in huge pyramidal tombs. Two of the people of this era voluntarily returned with the explorers to Vemba. But the Vembans also took the clay' tablets, so Earth's record of their visit was lost. The Vembans' voyages became more frequent as their technology advanced and on successive trips they returned with Greeks, Romans and Elizabethan Englishmen. Their latest expeditioh was to bring them in contact with the nuclear North Americas, including RD and me, Walter Hurd, A.B.D. It's a pity grandmother was never able to go. She was the, descendant of a space captain and the mother of one but it was her misfortune that she lived her entire life between voyages. She died before her son left on his. So she found what satisfaction she could in speaking to the stars. It's a shame she never heard you reply. But her son did and so did I. So she has been an important part of it -- if she could only know. Stacy told me her people were returning to Earth a little ahead of schedule because for some time they'd been getting our signals -- but they weren't the signals from RD or anybody like it. They were the lights of Earth's cities, which had been sending tadt signals since the Mazda revolution. As a matter of fact, Stacy said, her people were piqued and irritated by the math messages they had received when they were on thdr way (the messages hadn't reached Vemba itself; our aim was off, apparently). The Vembans' irritation was with the fact that the messages stayed mathematical instead of becoming human speech or human thought patterns. It wasn't until my unofficial ' messages reached them that they be-' gan to get enthusiastic. We all like you, Walter. A little imagination is appredated. E vents moved fast then -- at least for me, whose life had been a limbo of arrested movement in the desolation of Tug Hill. Sometimes I had to laugh at the pomposity of the arrangements my fellow Earthmen were making for the arrival of the Vembans. To unofficial me, with my prior, personal knowledge, it was.as if the alien ship were no more unexpected than an ocean liner preparing to dock as it had a dozen times before, while the rest of the Earthmen were as nervous and awestruck as the Watling Islanders must have been who first saw the sails of the Pinta rise . over the eastern horizon.  have the (vantage over you. You with your mathematical minds are preparing logistically for the great event while I have only my romantic soul to put in order. You have no personal stake in this adventure and this blunts your perception. I have Stacy. Stacy, Stacy! Every time I thought her name a wave of weakness swept over me. How would I greet her? What would I say? Would words be needed? It was as if I had always known her and that it would be necessary only for me to enfold her in my arms. And then we would kiss in a tender, wondering way and look deep into each other's eyes and smile with sudden shyness and step apart. But we'd  holding hands .still and would wander off along the beach. And our talk, whatever it was, would be natural and unformed, as with old friends or new lovers. I had to rouse myself then and prepare for the next transmission. Regulation-bound RD was still sending ##:# because no one had amended the instructions. IF When my turn came I sent a little something from the Portuguese, Browning version: How do I love thee? Let me count the ways... I don't know how I got through the days that followed. Soon after the official contact Stacy told me it would be wiser if we didn't speak to each other again until we met. But how was that meeting to take place? I had no idea and this soon became apparent to Stacy. My mind had been too dulled by a year at Tug Hill to think in terms of action and Stacy, one of a company of adventurers, had to do the planning. She had told me where she would meet me. An island called Galloo. All I had to do was be there. In her last message from the Forerunner she told me when. My final words to her were my promise to be there. She signed off satisfied. I wish I had as much faith in my ability to make the arrangements as she had. I was good at digging quotes out of books -- how good was I going to be at planning a rendezvous at a place I'd never heard of and persuading the infernally busy people at RD to let me keep it without telling them why? Fortunately I still had my official transmissions to look after. The. routine continued and took up time. When I asked Jerry if I could stop he replied, "You don't think they're the only intelligent life out there, do you? This contact increases our chances of others on an exponential basis -- " He also told me where the aliens would come down. splashdown in Lake Ontario were made by the Can-Am Ad Hoc Committee -- it had some such name, as I had come to expect from minds too long pent in government or on campuses. I allowed myself a little fantasy. I imagined members of Ad Hoc's reception subcommittee rowing out in a dinghy filled to the gunwales with tape recorders and litmus paper and box cameras and trade goods. And maybe a shotgun loaded with rock salt lest the aliens prove unfriendly. In romantic rebellion I appointed myself to my own limited membership group, Tho Committee of One to Greet Stacy. Maybe I'd take along  volume of Keats. ' But there must have been a lot of serious advance planning, perhaps years of it on the Vembans' part, because the splashdown took place efficiently and safely at the eastern end of Lake Ontario. The commander of the alien craft had been easily persuaded that the sheltered waters would be preferable to the chancy waves of the North Atlantic. Ottawa and Washington agreed to designate the site as international waters piro tern. The Forerunner splashed down at about # A.M. on the third of August. The hour and the fact that a summer storm had sprung up kept anyone from seeing it except the American-Canadian crews who had been alerted to expect it. Having come to rest, the huge ship rode high in the choppy waters. I heard about it on RD's private radio. But no one had come out yet. They brought in a replacement and heliocoptered me northwest out of Tug Hill. I don't know why they agreed to my unexplained demand. A reward for my stellar services, maybe -- or because of my implied threat to quit at his crucial stage when they had so many more important things on their minds. The helicopter pilot, a young fellow who'd been raised in the North Country, chattered away as we flew over the scrubland toward the Lake shimmering in the sun. 'That's Frederick Corners down there," he said. "Worth Center's just along that road. Lorraine's up ahead. There's Route Eighty-one -- lot of traffic today. Henderson Harbor's off to your right now and we're coming up fast on the Lake. That's Stony Island ahead. Next stop Galloo." "Not Galloo Island," Ltold him. "Galloo, Jr., then. There's no name for that little hunk of rock. You sure it's big enough for this bird?" "That's what they told me." RD had told me nothing of the sort. It was Stacy who had picked it. Galloo itself was a place of sheepherders and coyotes. Galloo, Jr., had no name before my pilot gave it one. It lies just east of the dotted line on the map that cuts through Lake Ontario to let the fish know whether they're Canadian or American. It was an ideal place for my rendezvous -- it was far enough away from Galloo for privacy and yet it was the only other land in the area. The pilot repeated his instructions about when to return -- apparently he was under orders not to ask questions and I volunteered nothing -- and left me there. It was a pleasant enough place to wait -- about as big as a ballfield, with a clump of stunted trees growing out of a small knoll at the east end that sheltered me from the bright morning sun. I had a good view of the oceanlike waters to the west. A few pleasure boats were out, far away. I saw nothing else in that direction. I wandered down to the western shore -- it had a flat, rocky bottom, a shelf that ran out under the clear water as far as I could see. It was good to be outdoors, virtually surrounded by water, after my months in the scrubland of Tug Hill. There was a light breeze. I savored the fresh, wet air in deep breaths as I made a quick circuit of the island, then went back to the knoll to wait in the shade. I had IF sat with my back against the highest tree and despite my excite, ment I had dozed. I woke out of a gray dream. The brightness of the sky and water failed to dispel the brief hightma in which not Stacy but a great dark fish had come to me out of the sea. The word to me back in Tug Hill that the Forerunner was to make a splashdown instead of a landing had revived an old unspoken dread. What if Stacy were not human? I didn't care about the rest of them -- they could be mollusks or eels or great crabs and probably RD would be just as happy. But Stacy would have to be human and my kind of human. Nothing halfway, either -- I couldn't accept a mermaid. But what if she were a fish? No one had seen the aliens yet -- still inside the Forerunner, they might be anything. Stacy had talked to fish -- she had told me so. Might she not also be a fish? Clouds came out of the west and covered the sun. The sky turned gray, like my dream. The breeze strengthened to a wind. It began to rain. The stunted trees offered little shelter. I pulled up the collar of my lighyacket and waited. Something was moving on the water to the west. I could barely see through the gloom. The pleasure craft had gone out of sight and what was coming didn't look like any of them.' It moved sluggishly, a black thing of ugly shape. If there had been anywhere to go I'd have run from it. It came on, straight toward my island; slowly. It couldn't be a boat -- it was too wide. But it could be a Vemban boat. Of course. But as it came closer I could see that it was no boat. It was a sea creature unknown on Earth. The rain passed to the east. The sun came out and the sudden brightness left no room for doubt. It was a dark gray monster from some alien sea, keeping its rendezvous with Walter Hurd, talker to the stars, dreamer, romantic idiot. It came closer. Heartsick, I turned away and looked back to the mainlandwhere my year of isolation had conjured up a goldenhaired space girl of terrestrial perfection. Back there was Tug Hill, graveyard of so many dreams. "Walt -- " A human voice was calling. Well, that only made it worse. We'd spoken in human English and now we'd have to again. This black fish spoke my language. I'd have to reply with cross-cultural courtesy, diplomatically masking my feelings as the historicity of the occasion demanded. I turned back to the sea. The black monster was in the shallows. But now I could see on its back what had been hidden by the distance, the dimness and the angle of its head-on approach; It was flat in the water now and on its back was a slender goldenhaired girl of terrestrial perfection. 'Walt!" she called again. "Stacy -- " I splashed out to meet my lady of the lake. H er. sea friend circled offshore while we talked. Once when a light plane flew over he dived out of sight. He wasn't so bad after I'd been introduced to him. Black and ugly he was -- but winsome. Stacy liked him. She had called him out of the depths and he had taxied her ashore. That was enough for me. Stacy and I talked for hours, sitting on the knoll, strolling the; perimeter of Galloo, Jr., wading out to tickle her friend on his underside. But as the sun began to move toward the west Stacy warned me of what would happen soon. As the sun Went down Stacy's radiant hair began to dull. Her glowing skin, once golden, faded. I thought I'd be prepared for it, that it wouldn't bother me. It was not just that she became pale. In a shocking transformation she turned sallow, then waxen, then blue-gray. I tried to hide my reaction but she wasn't fooled. "It bothers all of us," Stacy said, "so I can understand its effect on you.!' I protested that it didn't matter a Int, that she was my beautiful star girl from the world of a blue sun, but it was clear to both of us that my words were false. "Even we refuse to accept it," she said. "Nobody is content to be warm for part of the day and to shiver, blue with cold, the rest of the time. Just as we wear clothing for warmth and heat our houses, we use artificial color to hide our pallor. Like this." From a tiny pouch she shook out a yellow cloak and swirled it around her. It hid her body but accentuated the absence ofcolor in her face and hair. She had become fretful as her color drained. "I'm really ugly, you see," Stacy said, and drew up a cowl that masked her further. "Oh, no." I put out ahand to reassure her. She shrank from it. "No," I said. "You're beautiful." But I said it from memory and that must have been my tone. "Indoors it's simpler," she said, speaking from deep within her cowl. "We have light that equals the effect of the sun. But we can't be lit up all the time. There must be some darkness." "People don't see in the dark. The values are different then." "The spectrum is different here," Stacy said. "I could never be out with you in the early morning or the late afternoon! i'd be a fright. You'll have to give me up IF and find a girl who doesn't turn into a death's-head when the sun goes down." Damn it, she wasn't giving me time to adjust. I was sure the problem could be lived with, overcome, forgotten. But she was distraught -- nothing I said now counteracted the overtones of my first reaction. We walked along the sun-deprived shore, desolate. I protested that I'd known many girls but that none had appealed to me in any permanent way. I said there were special qualifies I'd sought but had never found until I heard her voice. A quality of mind that had made ail the difference. A mind that matched mine.' ' But Stacy was intractable. "Don't tell me you respect me for my mind. I can't believe you'd love an intellectual hag. If you were that strange I wouldn't want you. I have enough ego to want to be wanted for my face and my body -- maybe even more than for my mind. I'm a woman and women feel more than they think." She was talking too much. "I'm a man," I said, "but I also feel." I drew her toward me and held her in my arms. She stiffened, resisting for a moment, then relaxed. Her cowl fell back. I looked into her eyes, which were clear white and deep black, and saw no other part of her. She was soft in my rms but her eyes were wary as they looked into mine. I told her, "It's a custom of Earth to close your eyes when you're kiss." She closed them. I closed mine and kissed her. The universe exploded. Comets flashed... Stars pinwheeled. The moon of lovers beamed. I didn't care if Stacy were gray or green. In our kiss she was re as fire, golden as the sun, white-hot with promised passion. I opened my eyes. There was color in her face. "You're a peach!" I said. "What?" She looked at me, puzzled. Her eyes were no longer black and white -- they were blue with specks of gold. And her skin... "The color of a peach," I said. "Close your eyes." I kissed her. again, for a long time, then looked. She was glowing -- face, hair, throat. Who needed the noontime sun? We had our own source of energy, our own box of colors. I T'S only a treatment, of course, not a cure; We'll probably have New subscriptions and changes of address require # weeks' to processi V  to supplement the kisses with sunlamps and Vitamin D. These may be useful adjuncts. But I prefer the inner fires that were lit in the lonely time of our journeying toward each other and which have upset her Vemban-based spectrum. There had never been such a romance as ours. She continued to glow as I admired her., I think we knew then, with the sun low over the lake and the R  D helicopter beating toward us from the mainland, that we'd find the ways to work it out. We kissed again and her glow lasted until long after we were airborne. There's probably a scientific explanation but science is not my field. As an English major I prefer the poetic. Shakespeare said: For now my love is thaw'd: which, like a waxen image 'gainst a fire, bears no impression of the thing it was. You know the rest. The captain of the Vemban craft, Stacy's father, offered to modify a multi-nation space vehicle for stardrive. Their ship and Earth's will make the journey to Vemba with mixed crews. It may take a year. Some Vembans will remain here to continue their studies of an Earth on the eve of the twenty-first century. They have a lot to catch up on. The Vembans hadn't journeyed to this planet since' the time of Shakespeare. Neither he nor 'any other rthman recorded the visit then but one of his patrons might have heard rumors of it. Didn't Queen Elizabeth say in # (she was addressing the Spanish ambassador): "The use of the sea and air is common to all; neither can a title to the ocean belong ta any people or pri-v vate persons, forasmuch as neither nature nor public use and custom permit any possession thereof." She might have been talking about space. There's a long list of volunteers who want to make the trip to Vemba next year. I'm high on that list. The Vemban captain, son of the woman whose voice I was the first Earthman to hear, has insist that I have priority. Furthermore, as his future son-in-law. I've been forgiven for witholding information about his mother's voice contact with RD's Tug Hill station. The Guggenheim people are for me to finish my work on Stephen Crane's-lost nianuscripts. The vice president for academic affairs has extended my leave of absence indefinitely. report. Life Magazine is outbidding Look for a first-person account. The university wants my papers. Anything else? Yes. After the wedding Stacy and I are going to take a year's lease on that farmhouse on the western slope of Tug Hill. I may never write another word;  IF Center when I ran into old Ashby in the hall. His face was sheetwhite as he lned against the wall. Ashby is one of the senior people in chemistry. I thought he might be having a heart attack. "Anything wrong?" Ashby looked at me silently, his eyes clouded with pain. He spoke with obvious effort. "Do you remember the name of that six-foot rabbit in the old play?" "Do you mean Harvey? He was an invisible rabbit." "Well this one's six feet long and visible," said Ashby. "I saw him in Duckworth's lab." As unobtrusively as I could I sniffed the air between us but could detect no scent of booze. Senility, of course, is odorless. Nevertheless, my curiousity was piqued and I made straightway for the chemistry building and Duckworth's lab. His door was locked but a dim glow seeped over the transom. I hesitated for a moment and then knocked. No answer. I knocked again and a shuffle of steps approached the door. It opened and Duckworth peered out, clearly annoyed. But his face cleared when he saw me and he waved at me in a friendly manner. "Come in," he said, "and be quiet. I'm in the middle of something." I followed on tiptoe, drawing on experience gained in the fourth year of kindergarten many years back. I had been in these hallowed surroundings before but I had never lost the sense of reverence at seeing Duckworth's complex maze of apparatus. The small room held a mass spectrometer, a countercurrent apparatus of many glass curves and Iwnds -- beyond these, Duckworth was gazing into microscope stand. I took a seat nearby and sat quietly. After a while Duckworth entered some penciled notes into a stained gray binder, sighed contentedly and turned to me. "I suppose you've run into that idiot, Ashby," he said. I was startled at his reading of my thoughts. I coughed in embarrassment. "I did see him in the corridor  outside the Copiputer room." "He's an ass," said Duckworth. "I showed him an amazing thing, a bead and wire model of a new complex molecule I've developed after years'of work. It is the basis for growing an entire living organism. Ashby stared at it for a while and then he said, 'Somebody's going to poke their eyes out on that wire.' " I smiled. "He mentioned something about a six-foot rabbit." Duckworth frowned. "Emma?" he said. "I suppose the secret's out. Come along and I'll show her to'you." IF He led me through a side corridor into his Animal Room. He opened the door in a gingerly manner, fumbling for the light switch, flicked it on. I almost leaped but of my skin. There, working its whiskers amiably was the biggest rabbit I'd ever seen. "What do you think of her?" said Duckworth. "She's big." "A slight miscalculation on my part," said Duckworth. "But look at those gorgeous blue eyes and the snow white fur." "She is a beauty," I admitted, "if you can get past her size." "Don't get hung up on her length," said Duckworth. "The important thing is -- I made her." The room reeled about me. I steadied myself on what I thought was Duckworth's shoulder until I realized I was holding on to the rabbit. I recoiled as if from an adder. "What do you mean, made her?" Duckworth sighed. "Ashby reacted the Mme way," he said. "I told you I had a new complex molecule from which I could grow a living organism. It was the logical next step from my macromolecule, which was so like cided to work out a way of formulating my own genetic coding and create something according to blueprint." "The rabbit was your first try?" "Emma was my fifth," said Duckworth. "But she's the first to develop into a viable creature." "Do you know what you've done?" I cried. "You've cracked the greatest secret of the Ages. Why haven't you announced it?" "Too many ramifications," said Duckworth. "Besides, I've got one Nobel Prize in chemistry. I don't think I could get another." and wiped my brow but the sweat popped out afresh. "My God," I said. "Wait until the ecclesiastical types hear what you've done." "That's why I've kept it quiet." A sudden thought struck me. I hesitated to voice it. "Is it now possible," I ventured tentatively, "to create some kind of human creature?" Duckworth stroked his beard calmly. "Odd that you should ask that," he said. "The preparation I was examining when you came in is just that." I shook my head violently. "You've gone much too far," I said. "Do you really think so?" said Duckworth. "It's at a very early and tricky stage of development right now. There are cells in the process of dividing. At the moment, they are in the blastocyst stage. I've got to supply a pseudo uterus for anchoring. It will be a couple of months before it will look human." "What color will the baby be?" I said. Duckworth shrugged. "I didn't give a thought to color," he said. "But it will eventually be a white female." "Ah ha," I said. "You didn't think about color but you chose white. That will open you to the charge of racism." Duckworth's eyes widened. "I suppose you're right," he said pensively. "Most of the world is nonwhite. I probably should have made her black." "Then you'd have been accused of exploitation, of appeasing the ghettos or just not giving a damn." "You can't win, can you?" "Stop the embryo from developing any further. Then present Emma to the world. The rabbit should be enough for starters." "You mean kill my embryo? I couldn't do that," said Duckworth. "It's alive." I righed: "Good God, Duckworth. People have had abortions before. There are circumstances which make it perfectly proper." "Not to me," said Duckworth. And his jaw set in a manner I'd seen before. It was clear that further argument was futile. We both sat silently' brooding over what had taken place, until Duckworth's innate optimism won. "It will all work out," he said. "Wait and see." "What about President Hinkle? Does he know what you've done?" "No one knows but Ashby and you," said Duckworth. "I underestimated Ashby's loquacity and your strong ethical code." "You'd better tell Hinkle before he gets it indirectly. And quickly." Duckworth scratched his head. "I hate like hell to do it," he said. "But I suppose you're right. I'll let him know today." I finally pursuaded Duckworth that it wouldn't do to tie a bright pink ribbon about the rabbit's neck and set a basket of colored eggs at her side. He muttered something about my lack of humor and went to the phone to dial the president's office. I can still see the look on Hinkle's face when he came into the lab. Right behind him was his secretary, Myrna, and I was in position to catch her as she fell backward. President Hinkle kept muttering, "God damn -- " as Duckworth patiently described what he had done. He also avoided looking at the rabbit, although every now and then he sneaked a side glance at her. I patted Myrna' s wrists and rubbed her temples until she came to. l Duckworth had paused and I IF assumed he was about to spring his piece de resistance about the human embryo, so I slowly backed out of the room and beat it the hell out of the chemistry building. I went home, turned on my television set and watched the basketball game of the week. It was wild, exciting, with some of the finest defensive play I'd ever seen. But I was waiting for something else and it came. During overtime, a small line of news flashes suddenly broke at the bottom of the picture. The name of Duckworth appeared, "secret of life discovered -- " and a lengthy quote from President Hinkle. I switched off the set and decided to make amends for my cowardice and get back to the side of my friend. When I arrived at the campus an enormous mob was there, held back by the biggest array of state troopers I'd ever seen. For a moment I was totally perplexed. We already had a black-run department of African Culture, two hundred black students and four courses in Swahili. Then I realized that the TV flashes had done the job. Despite my faculty card I could make no headway through the lines. Then I saw a guilty looking chap ease out from under the barricades, gingerly balancing a small V I package. He was neatly dressed and shaven but I recognized Duckworth at once. He clapped his hand over my mouth before I could shout his name and we stumbled off together. When we had fled some distance from the crowd I pried his fingers from my mouth. "Why are we running.away?" "Have you got a better idea?" he snarled. "There were twenty television cameras turned on me and a deadly stream of the most idiotic questions. Besides, I didn't want them to find out about the embryo." He pointed to the package. "Is it in there?" Duckworth nodded. "Didn't you tell Hinkle about her?" I said. ' . His shoulders sagged. "I couldn't," said Duckworth. "I decided the only way to handle this problem was to take the embryo with me, let it develop to full maturity and then publish the information in a scientific journal." "And the rabbit?" "Hinkle will be good to her," said Duckworth. "Some day when Emma is older she'll understand why I had to abandon her." "It's a mistake, Duckworth," I said. "Eating in diners, sneaking chemicals from the corner drug store, holing up in the High Sierras. It won't work." Duckworth chewed on his lower lip. "There is another way," he said pensively. "I could have Laura Lockman look after the embryo at her apartment. How about that?" "Laura Lockman, your graduate student? Does she know about the human embryo?" "Not officially," said Duckworth. "But I think she's on to what I've been doing. I'm sure she'd help and we'd only require a minimum of equipment at her place." And that's where we went. L aura was delighted to help. From time to time she'd slip me a little bla?k-and-white photograph to look at. "Notice," she said, "it's now about one-quarter inch long. That tiny tube is the heart aiid it's beating strongly." Five weeks later she pointed out the head, the beginning of fingernails, the tiny, closed eyelids. The project was fascinating and chilling. Month by month our. human developed, from embryo to fetus, fetus to an about-to-be-born baby. The most difficult part, I gathered, was the special membranous amnion that Duckworth devised out of a selectively permeable plastic material. On the academic front, Duckworth was constantly plagued by visitors, invitations to.television interviews and correspondence from the National Institute of Health, asking him to gather his ideas and techniques into a monograph on the creation of life. "It's hopeless," said Duckworth to me, one morning. "Between all this harassment, sneaking over to Laura's apartment and maintaining my research here I'm exhausted. And tonight I'm featured speaker at the Alumni Dinner." "I wouldn't miss you for the world," I said. "Especially since a contingent of Fundamentalist Churchwomen is promising to disrupt the proceedings." Duckworth said wistfully, his face brightening for the first time in weeks, "God, I hope they do." But they didn't. The dinner proceeded mechahically along its predestined dull path. President Hinkle in a flowery introduction outlined his own career and capped it with his penetrating discovery of Duckworth teaching chemistry and coaching basketball at a small girls' college in the Berkshires. As Duckworth arose, spreading his spidery fingers through the wrinkled notes of his speech, an usher came quickly down the aisle and pressed a note into his hand. He read it, turned livid beneath his newly restored beard and bolted from the dais. I clutched at his tuxedo as he went by. "Duckworth -- what's happened." "It's Laura, I must go to her," he muttered. "The baby is being born -- " President Hinkle had also jumped to his feet and waddled IF over to me. He looked puzzled. "Where's he going," he whispered hoarsely. "He's disrupting the dinner." "It's the baby," I said without thinking. "He's got to go to Laura Lockman at once." President Hinkle stared at me, thunderstruck. "Baby?" he cried. "Duckworth, Laura? I can't believe it. The scandal could destroy the University." And he fell heavily into a nearby seat without giving its occupant a chance to get out from under. The dinner ended in confusion -- indeed, to this day there remain those who insist that Duckworth and Laura produced the infant through rather standard procedures. But the academic world knew better. The excitement and adulation that followed the publicizing of Duckworth's rabbit was nothing coippared to what erupted on the announcement that a girl baby had been produced by artificial means. Denunciations quadrupled and the raging moral issues underlying artifical creation were debated across every breakfast table. Duckworth seemed impervious to all of this furor. He called nie aside one morning to show me three six-by-eight free photos that had come with the diaper service. "It's amazing, Duckworth," I said. "You've kept your balance and avoided a display of hubris. Why sometimes even I feel overwhelmed by it all." "I can't afford to be," said Duckworth. "I've a new mouth to feed now. And besides, a certain high government official is meeting with me this afternoon. It's all very hushhush but I refused to come unless you were present. After I'd ignored the reasons detailing why you can't get a security clearance, they reluctantly agreed. Will you come?" "I'm flattered," I said. "But what help can I offer?" "I have an idea of what they want," said Duckworth," and if I'm right I'll need your moral support." the preliminaries of the meeting. Mr. Hubbard of the Defense Department was surrounded by a half-dozen of his brightest aides. On our side were President Hinkle, his secretary Myrna, Duckworth and myself. Mr. Hubbard, in glowing terms, began to outline a vast grant program involving Duckworth heading a new Chemical Life Research Building. Duckworth looked at me, eyebrows raised. I shrugged. "What do you get in retup?" Mr. Hubbard smiled. "Not me," he said. "Uncle Sam. He's wise enough not to tell Emmett Duckworth what to do. But we do have one little specific project in mind..." He paused, shuffled his papers, cleared his throat and went on. "Dr. Duckworth, the government would like you to produce a test run of fifty male babies for us." We were all thunderstruck. "Fifty babies?" said Duckworth. "But why?" Mr. Hubbard looked around the room. "There are a considerable number of us present," he said. "Could this be just between you and me?" President Hinkle arose, swaying like a seal, his pride clearly injured. "I'm ready to go," he said, his voice breaking. Hubbard's six aides rose quickly. "He stays," said Duckworth, pointing at me. Hubbard hesitated, frowned, then nodded. In short order the three of us were alone. "Now," said Hubbard, "in my portfolio is a fully detailed scenario. I've been working on it since the announcement about your sixfoot rabbit. I knew that eventually you'd have to produce a human child." He glanced down at his papers. "It's taken me many months of arduous work." "No doubt," said Duckworth dryly. "Briefly," aid Hubbard, "it's this. For years, our nation has been frustrated and held back in its military policy by the fear of deaths among our military personnel. Some observers feel that one of our Presidents was driven from office because of casualty lists and the resulting resistance to the draft. Every mother whose son may be sent into battle becomes a potential propagandist against the government. But she'd be quite placid if she knew that her own sons would never have to go to war." "Meaning?" said Duckworth. "If we had a group of youngsters without family ties, real and yet not real, belonging to no one but Uncle Sam, there would be no protests, sit-ins or demonstrations if they died in battle. It would be the ultimate solution of our military manpower problem at minimal cost." I sucked in my breath. Duckworth looked at me and placed his hand on my shoulder. "As I understand you," he said severely, "you want to use my methods to man an Army." "Also a Navy and Air Force," said Hubbard. "It should be child's play for you -- and no pun intended. You might even give us youngsters predesigned with particular aptitudes for the military somal types with aggressive tendencies?" Duckworth stood up and I joined him. "The answer is no," he said. IF "Forget the idea. I'll never coop' erate with you." "Bravo, Duckworth," I murmured... Hubbard ignored me. He looked at Duckworth and sighed. "I was afraid you might react this way," he said. "I know you think you're taking a moral stand but you're wrong. Do you want to condemn real youngsters to death?" "I want no youngsters to die," said Duckworth. Hubbard gathered his papers together. "You realize," he said, "that we can proceed without you. I took the precaution before this meeting of impounding your papers and notebooks under the National Security Act. Somewhere we'll find competent, patriotic chemists who can build on your notes." "I don't doubt that, you'll find biochemists to help you," said Duckworth. "But it will take quite a while before you'll get what you want." Hubbard smiled. "Perhaps -- we'll see." Duckworth leaned forward. "Could you use an entire army of women?" Hubbard frowned. "Why women?" "Because as yet. I've been unable to produce a male," said Duckworth, "a problem in synthesizing a perfect Y chromosome. I haven't the foggiest notion of how to solve it." "You're bluffing." "Ask your chemists," said Duckworth. "And while they spend ten years digging up the answer, maybe I can scuttle your plan." A fter, as we walked under the fragrant pines that bordered the campus, I congratulated Duckworth on his stand. little girl unreal," he said. "But you were right. It really is a lulu of a mess I've gotten into. But science doesn't produce evil consequences, only men do." And for the rest of th afternoon, Duckworth and I pooled our intellects and went through the list of four hundred girl's names without finding a single one we could agree upon.  r tafl I bo The human and the alien had nothing in common -- but each other I there, finally, it returns. But now, for this moment, the planet is nodding its flat top out toward the curdled milk-smear in which Earth -- so far away -- floats like a bit of blue-green mold. The four huge moons are sliding along the equator toward the far side of Merthe -- taking with them the light and warmth of a dwarf sun which for past hundreds of years has receded slowly, inexorably, into the distant sky. Already the luminescent fur that caps the pole is that drifts down, mingling into the red haze. In a month, two months, this blue light will be all that remains. Under its strange pervasive quality the psychology of the people will begin to change, children will emerge -- and then, silently, the mbons will appear one by one on the horizon, like vast orange bubbles coming up out of lakes. Light -- the red haze -- will return. Though for them, for now, none of this matters. They are together on the patio, sitting at the hammered-silver table. Quiet. Light gleams in the copper tiles and wind wanders in the grass nearby, resting on leaves, sighing in shades. They are drinking a dark, heavy fluid from turquoise cups and sucking at fruits that, opened, fill the hand with rainbows. And she -- she of the hair to match the tiles through the gentle red haze, the ' frail pink bones showing under the skin -- she sits biting at a thumbnail and gathering the torn fruit peelings into a pile by her cup. Her features sharp, her hand on her knee. Opening her mouth to show the solid curved bands of bone where teeth might be. "My Parent has sent a note." The hand moves away from her mouth, leaving a tiny crescent of orange behind, on the lower rim of her lipless mouth. "They thought  "No, Rhillanda." The answer she knew would come. Her fingers abandon the crescent to the peelings. She turns her face out away from the Home toward the trees. They are straight and tall, white and slender like a man's arm, the round leaves borne on tiny branches spaced regularly from the ground up, going out from the trunk like zigzags of lightning. "Through swinging hair he catches a glimpse of the prongs of her ear. "When, Jon. When, if not now?" "Soon, Rhillanda. I've told you before. I've tried to explain." For a moment he looks toward the trees himself, as though he sees the ship there behind them, miles away. "I must return with the others."  She utters a clicking sound, the sound of her bony tongue striking the hard palate. One of the phatic formulas common to her people, it could mean anything, almost anything. But here it meant: Why? "The man called Perez-sky,-the one I call Captain, is not my Parent. The note will do no good," he miles away, months from here. A government. A state which was once many separate countries." She is watching the trees. Or the sky. She puts the rest of her fruit on the small pile of peelings. "Country -- " she almost whispers and he moves closer to her. "A country is like a Home. You have told me things before, so many times." "And you've never understood them, never believed them. I've tried.". The turquoise tints of her skin show strangely against the IF thin, red-hazed sky, making her for a moment seem to him unreal -- distant, then near. They speak in their confusion of Basic, her own language, body gesture, and he feels in the .words their real distance, their essential isolation, one from the other. "They are not easy things to understand. But I must ' return to ask permission of my people." "A Man controls his own fate, Jon. Women and Others are the Duty of their Parent. A Man belongs to himself, decides for himself." "Only here, Rhillanda." His hand takes hers beside the peelings. Soft and warm like a bird's breast, it fits perfectly within his palm. "I am my own but I have Duty to my Parent." Their hands are brown and green, like separate clays that have come together. "Others can have no Duty, only obedience. You say you are a Man you as an Other -- " "But my Parent is far away. And to him I remain an Other in many ways." " -- only Others lie," she finishes and takes away her hand. She hides it in her lap. "Only Others are bound to the Parent. So a note was sent, an offer made, it was ignored. It is past understanding. Your words are as empty as shells." She gestures toward the sky, orange nails flashing -- then the hand drops back to its lap. Of a sudden she's a beggar, crippled by not understanding. Quietly then: "Is it the price? My Parent will raise it. I can ask him, he'll do as I wish." No... "Then what am I to believe? Tell me -- what?" . "Just what I have said. I know how difficult it is for you. But things arc different, ways are different. I'll come back. And then there will be time to explain, to understand." He reaches out and toutes the: pile she has made and he damns their mongrel tongue, that holds back so much more than it lets pass. "Time. Believe that -- that there will be time." T hey sit together, looking out over the broad lands surrounding the Home. His eyes catch the glint of another Home far away on a hill, these strange slender trees posted around it, thin limbs barbed like wire. A bird emerges from one of the trees nearby, its mirrorlike wings flashing light across the patio floor. "Rhillanda," he says and turns to find her watching him. "Soon." Returning had been in his mind: that he would be back. But somehow again the words obscure the thought. She sees beneath them. "Today?" He nods. "We have to check out the ship before we Lift." As well this way as another. How else would he have said it -- begun to explain the reason he came this one last time. And because he can think of nothing else he repeats himself: "Soon." And she takes the word. Turns it, examines it -- holding it off from her and looking. "Soon -- " Her fingers flush and covey in her hair. "Soon I will have time -- you asked me to believe in time? I will have time then to remember all you've told us. About your world, your people and their ways, the cities you speak of. Time to think of all the things you've told me alone -- " "Two years. No more." " -- and soon I will be Age. Your refusal -- " her voice lifts, pushing his denial away -- "has taken Honor from my Parent. His Duty is past and he'll not hold for bids." One hand climbs to the table and lies there. It is a quality of hers, he realizes now, that her hands are forever moving as though of their own accord -- taking, bringing, arguing with themselves, arranging objects or peering over the edge of tables. "Though there will be a bidder, early and high -- " And now her eyes go away to something in the distance. "The Markets pay well," she says. "There are people who think beauty as important as utility and they'll take a woman for that, even Bred. They'll pay the Markets well; my Parent will have his Honor." "But I will be back." "You will be back." "And soon." Her hand lifts the silver pot. Dark liquid pours into h er cup. "The universe, Jon. The worlds. All that." A gesture toward the bright thin sky and this red haze blushing in the air. "And this is us, the two of us." She holds up a small rock of sugar, drops it into the steaming cup. Liquid splashes up against the side and runs back into the rest. Ripples consume themselves. The world is again dark, again indomnitable. "Hurry," she says, "so little time." The sugar is slowly dissolving... He stands and sunlight slides across his shoulders, making shadows on the ground of Merthe. "Those are not the words of your Parent," he says. "Or of your people." "No, they are not. Perhaps, after all, I have learned something in hearing your stories." She smiles. He notices the absence of lips, the bands of bone. "Goodbye, Jon." "Until I come back. To you. And soon." A turning, a going away. Her words come down the path behind him. "A Man controls his life, Jon. I can wait but where I wait is the Duty of others. I can do nothing more than has been already done." Her voice clicks as his feet plod. Partway into the trees he stops. IF If only there were a simpler thing to say, something to cross the spaces. Like Orpheus he looks back. She is standing by the table with her hand on the chair. Her Parent has come out to the patio from his study. He is speaking softly to her, reaching out to take her hand. Her head is down. Rhillanday Jon says to the trees around him. And again: Rhillanda -- to the wind which follows him away from that still place, that girl -- to the wind that follows him back to his ship, wings at his heels, the prince of thieves, whispering. A nd the ship took anger, took Jury, . took fire to itself, shoving the ground away, A nd Merthe was below, was behind, was calling, was gone, II back to his Earth -- the sprouting cinder, the whirling place. Took him. back to a waiting world. Back through corridors of formalities, to forms and paper and offense all stacked like concrete blocks. Back to a room with long bare tables made like fists -- where officials harrumphed, officials inquired, officials demanded. It seemed to him they all smoked pipes, all snorted softly. Back to the months like the tables, long -- like the tables, clenched. To the waiting. Two weeks in a large blue room that smelled of wood and old paper. The faces behind the tables changing subtly with the hours. He sat in the center. The world moved around him. They put him in a smaller room, green, witir aluminum bars in the eye of the door and across the windows lacing the floor with outside light, making squares in which he could pace like a chesspiece. A bed, a sink, a table and paper. Anything he asked for. They would come and take him to other rooms. He would answer questions. They would bring him back here. -- The subject will please identify himself. -- Jon Butler, Citizen L-I#D. Academy, '#, anthropology. Service rating, D. -- Linguist, late aboard Union ship Vesper? -- Yes. -- Last port? -- Merthe. -- Will the subject please speak more distinctly? -- Merthe. At other times they brought their cameras and took only his image to those other rooms, where busy men sat for a moment, listened, rushed oh. Faces floated past the door, looked in, spoke, moved on. Footsteps followed people down the corridors and stopped when the people stood still to listen. He asked about the room the bars -- a formality. Heasiced, When" Soon... O NE OF his guards, a sulky Negro, grinned and told him the whole world loved a lover. -- Your statement is that you spent (rustle of papers) ten months on Merthe, and that during the last three of those months you went among the inhabitants and made yourself known to them, held communication with them and exchanged gifts. Is this common practice. Citizen Butler? -- No, Honor. I was the first. They had watched our base, seen the ships -- shuttiers -- drop and lift. And talked to Reps, of course. But I was the first, really. -- It is not common practice? -- No. -- No? And why not. Citizen Butler, why not? -- Merthe is A-unclassified. -- Which means? -- "No contact pending further study." -- You have just quoted from a book. Will you name that book for the Court, Citizen Butler? -- "Regulations of Union Expansion". -- "No contact, pending further study." That applies, does it not, both to personal and cultural contact? -- Yes. Only what is absolutely essential is permitted. -- Yet you told these people of Earth, the Union. You even went so far as to exchange gifts, thereby introducing cultural anomalies? -- Yes. -- Then I must insist that this be set in the transcript: That the subject knew and was fully aware that he acted in direct opposition to Union regulations. -- And I must insist that my assignment was to analyze the Merthe language, this being essential to further study. An assignment which, if the Court pleases, is extremely difficult to accomplish through portholes and energy fences. Also, there were particular problems with the language. Recorders have a rather limited vocabulary. -- Another outburst such as that and we will be moved to hold you in comtempt of IF Court, Citizen Butler. Simply answer the inquiries put to you. -- I apologize. Honor. -- Strike the reply. T he rooms to which he was taken for questioning grew smaller. He began to guess the passing time by the size of therooms. And this happened once: the guard's face came to the door, asked. What are you doing? Singing. Sounded more like moaning. Thought you were sick. Never heard singing like that before. No. You haven't. The face went away. The footsteps went away. He burst into laughter. Someone had just said "social intercourse" The last word had gotten the accent. The rooms wre smaller -- the people larger, more important. Time passed, a great deal of time. He lost sense -- completely -- of how much time had passed and this became an obsession for him. He sat remembering Merthe. -- Merthe, then, is a slave world? -- I didn't say that. Honor. -- Governed by anarchy? -- There is no government. -- There are no communities. no social groups? -- The Family lives together. That's the only thing. -- But the Family sells its -- Only when they are Age and if no new Home has bn created for them. -- I ask the Court to consider that reply carefully. Who supervises these Homes? -- The Parent. -- Which is? -- A father. Like that, anyhow. -- What of the mothers? Have they no say? -- I don't know. There was a woman in Rhillanda's Home. But she always said Parent, singular. -- There is, then, no agency, no control? -- The Homes are self-sustaining, virtually hermetic. There is a system of morality, confusing to us, difficult to talk about. Honor, Duty... -- Who does the work that must . be done, the work that a government must be established to perform? -- I don't know. -- Please speak louder. -- I don't know. It Is difficult... -- And do you know. Citizen Butler, why the adults isolate themselves the way they do? And also why they dissolve the social order? -- Perhaps because they are afraid of what can happen when men live together. -- I see. Is that what you were told? -- No, a guess. It is impossible -- we can't hope to understand a culture as different as theirs, not right away. They couldn't make me understand, though they tried again and again. The language --  -- We have already heard your testimony concerning the language. Citizen Butler. Do you know why their women are degraded so? -- They're not. They are lov and valued. You are' trying to sway the lady Honors. -- He refuses to cooperate, may the Court notice. I submit that the subject tries to confuse the Court with these contradictory stories. Cameras lumbered in and fol-, lowed their cables back out. Each day he was brought large sacks of mail. Most of the letters were addressed simply: Jon "Butler, Councilhome. They were from ministers, mothers, public figures, perverts, schoolchildren, artists and teachers. It seemed to him that never before had he seen the sympathy and savagery of the human heart so starkly portrayed. His guards were pleasant. The young Negro's name was Berkell, and he had been born on Mars -- in one of the religious colonies there, of one of the increasingly rare pure Negro strains. Each year he applied to the Academy and each year he was refused admission. And time passed. -- Will you identify this for the Court? -- It is a gift from Rillanda. -- A gift from the girl. And is...? -- A portrait of her, a painting done by her Parent. It was taken from me. -- I ask the Court to accept this as evidence and request that it be circulated among the Honors. -- (Gasps and whispers.) T here was a break in the trees near Rhillanda's Home, a sort of chamber where the only sound was water running down a slope soniewhere deep in the woods. There birds -- like mirrors set out on the limbs and staring silently across the spaces at one another -- filled the trees. One day on the patio she had jumped up, taken his hand and brought him there. He had listened to her singing, lying on his back in the dry moss. Her voice, low and soft, combined in his mind forever with the sound of IF the water far off among the trees. -- Citizen Butler, you have told us something of the ' girl's language. You have mentioned, among other things, that there exists in the language a certain (ruffling papers) "gender confusion". Have you any explanation for this? -- No. -- Nor for the "fuzziness of verbs" to which you also called our attention? Nor the elaborate, recomplicated adjectives?" -- No. I have only the vaguest hold on the ' Merthe language, actually. I was forced to work from memory rather than understanding, hoping that perception would eventually show roads to conception. -- And each -- ah -- Home has its own language? -- Dialect, but not really that. And I don't know -- I  visited only one of , the Homes, f made my statement in full faith that it would turn out to be true from what I do know -- and feel -- about the language. It's terribly complicated, a much more sophisticated structure than our own. -- Then our picture of Merthe is a kind of land of Babel, everyone speaking his own language? In these -- ah -- emphatic sounds you mention. -- Phatic. No, I believe it's a process that occurs spontaeousiy in the individual Home. A kind of amplification of interpersonal expression. It comes of being . so close, of knowing one another so well. Certain grammatical connections and implications can be dropped, they're superfluous. The phatic responses carry no actual meaning. They are more like direction signals. They can mean many different things, according to how they're used. -- A return to the origins of language? -- In a way, perhaps. The process certainly began as a simplification. But on Merthe the phonemes have reduplicated, developed akind of endogeny, become almost an auxiliary language. #t is full of nuance, extremely sophisticated. You can't see the relations anymore but there must have been some at one time -- derivatives, the signals which begin trains of speechthought. The nuances are virtually impenetrable to the outsider. -- Vm afraid. Citizen Butler, that the Court hasn't your training in these matters. This means little to us. Simply put, we can say that these queer people walk about grunting like apes and --  -- No! -- But he could not be heard above the laughter. Once, when they were together in the clearing, Rhillanda had suddenly stopped singing and looked behind her. A girl was standing there among the trees, watching. He, too, looked around and she turned and fled away through the trees towatd a Home on the hill, a mile or so from Rhillanda'sown. -- Ah impenetrable language. A gender confusion. Anti-social, atavistic, introverted patterns. Callous treatment of women. This is a rather frightening picture you've given us. Citizen Butler. -- But we can't --  -- Thank you. Citizen. If it please the Court I should now like to call to witness. O NE day, early in the morning, he was taken to another room, the smallest yet. The guards who had brought him here (Berkell was not among them, having at last been taken into the Academy) had been in uniform. The room was brown, trimmed in gold, the walls lined with matched massive volumes. The place was lit indirectly. The light, soft and suffusing, reminded him strangely ofthe clearing near Rhillanda's Home. A huge steel desk occupied most of the floor space. There was nothing on the desk. Four black robes glistened in the light and a set of spectacles flashed calmly. He had never seen glasses before. The man wearing them was the one who spoke to him.  -- I'm Dr. Graybar, comparative physiology.' Did you know the girl's race is hermaphroditic? -- (Deep breath.) I thought that might be the fact. From what I was able to understand of what they tried to explain to me. It explains several tendencies in the language; also, perhaps it accounts in part for the Homes. -- Perhaps so. I've been studying the picture they took from you and attempting to learn what little I can from Union Expansion Records. Someday maybe they will find out the proper way to survey a new planet. Maybe. (Looked to see if it was IF taken down -- it was.) Good -- Citizen Butler, I believe .that the women of Merthe 'are hybirds -- throwbacks, or sports. Freemartins. Barren and sterile. Had you guessed that? . -- No. I knew we couldn't breed. I wasn't able to understand the rest. -- One of the Honors: Pleise enter in the records that the subject wilfullywithheld evidence from these Courts. -- I didn't. I catj't see that it mattered. -- Another Honor: Everything matters to the law. Citizen. You should fealize, we must have the entire truth. A point such as this could in the end be most important. Perhaps crucial. -- You're fully aware of what I'm telling you? -- Yes, Dr. Graybar. -- An# you still want permission? -- Yes -- yes. -- Thank you. That will be all for now. -- How long have I? -- An Honor: That will be all. Citizen Butler. Three days later they gave him his freedoih. It came as a gift, wrapped in cautious words. He opened it. took the gift, left the wrappings in the'room. He found himself outside in sunlight, being escorted past a group of staring, curious people. As his guards pushed a way for him through the crowd he caught sight of Berkell standing away from the others, smiling, his hand raised in a silent greeting and farewell. And Earth shrugged him off her shoulders -- he went out from Earth as from a bow. Hurled upward, forward, outward like a rock and Merthe was calling again. Ill back. It was always that. When he walked the bleaching sands of Coldor, or between the blushing quartz hillocks of gooseflesh Albay-# -- when on Farthay his feet kicked out jewels before him. Throughall the pleading winds of Xantharie, telling and crying with a hundred voices, a hundred hands. Under the pastel rains of Chyth; the acid snows that make the island of New Corfu a floating sponge; through the seas of Fford thick with weeds. Among the many-bodied people of Gaffrt and the sad women of Llyrch with their exorcised breats and carved bellies. Always. To get her back, take her back. And to find her he ripped the stars apart, tore wide the years between them, screamed in the skull of space. Three years had passed. The stars told him so and he shouted back. You lie. He screamed at the stars: Stand still. He told them: I'll put out your eyes. But three years had passed. From her Parent's study, where in the blue light a new child moved quietly among the patio furniture, he went directly to the Markets. She was sold the first day, they told him, for a fine price, and Llyrch was the name given. He went to Llyrch, went down among the Nonconformists and their shanty churches. Gone. Andfor weeks he wandered, at last finding a minor official, a small man hurt further into smallness, who would tell him, would tell him simply because superiors wouldn't. Goliath was what the man spoke. Goliath was where he went. Gone. He wandered. On Farthay he gathered gems from his hands -- and on Plath gave them all for a ship, Httle caring that behind him as he left, a dozen ships sped toward Farthay with empty holds. It was with this small ship he ripped the stars apart, pushed down the walls between worlds. Off Plath he accelerated. His ship went like a stake into the black eye, the Sambo sky, immeasurable space. He heard of a girl on Lilth, where men have long legs and the houses are built on stilts off the ground. A strange girl with copper hair and clicks in her speech -- a strange girl. He went there, the girl was jgone. Was she Rhillanda? He folloyt'ed what traces he found. He sought her on Garth, in the caves of Perchmont. When at last he came up out of the caves, light struck his eyes like fists and for days he was blind -- nearly blind -- and fevers raged in his chest from the damp air of the caves. had been before and which he had named, he found them singing her songs. The girl who had brought the songs?No they could not remember, there were so very many singers -- wait! Alsfort. Could she have gone there? He jumped. No, not Alsfort, no longer. Nor Plethga.Nor Ghlint. He wondered, wandered. Deep space opened like doors. He raged along the bands of night. Nor Mersey. IF Nor Larne. He searched for her among the bodies and wasting faces of the people of Hikuu, where poison had come up out of the rocks to spoil the waters and this world was dying. For once there was joy in his heart at finding her gone. He strayed among the superstitious tribes that peopled VoFtura and was thought a god for his hair and size. Yes, Lord, there had been a ship at the great port many months ago. It had come down out of the black for repairs and flown away again into the darkness. He left. He followed her. And behind' him the tribes began to await his return. Again he lost the trail. Again, the thread tangled and vanished out among the whirling galaxies. Insouciance. Six weeks of it, brimful, sitting in a chamber of the hotel Grand Daphne. In losing the trail he had lost something else as well -- the strength to go on. He sat in his shell chair. Rainbow hues spilled down the wall. His eyes rattled hollowly, idly, uncaring from face to face. An old woman without teeth or clothes, an astrologer, came and made his chart. The stars are friendly to no man, she said, grinning to show a mouth full of brown and pink flesh, though to you less than to others. I see a dark star and a bright star, between which you must pass. And water, which may be real or emblematic. That is all. A dark star, a bright star, water. You must find their meaning for yourself -- there meaning . exists' within you. And she went away. He sat in his chamber and it came to him that the bright star mant going on -- the dark star, surrender. There, in the lightclustered, color-cluttered room, he passed between them and chose. And the water -- space like an endless sea. Or many seas. He sailed to #em. T he waterworld of Tigris -- his small boat ferried him down the waters that lapped up against the prow, swelled under it, ran off in wings to either side. He drifted past the floating islands of thickpacked leaves, under the quick shade of lonely slick trees. He came to one of the fortress islands, arms upraised. He asked his questions. His boat wound its way back. And later, in the flannel seas of space, he found the thread wrapped around the world of Euphis, where the sky forever frowns and the clouds hang on the horizon like black fists and you can tell the falling rain in the plunge of thermometers. On Euphis he mixed fury" with finesse and clawed his way back into space, following the thread, spilling stars behind him; Going on. outside Darwin. He passed the warning shell and rockets erupted from the ground below and chased him away, darting and skimming into the blackness. crowds of Mensch and for two hours followed a woman who at last turned and smiled invitingly and was no Rhillanda. nothing. Some ruin, some wreckage and crablike inhabitants scuttling sideways in the cluttered sand under a white sun. begged aid was sent away. houses that acned spoiled Vega, Vega the victim of another's war, and a girl there told him of one who had been taken away to the magistrates at Kil-hing. Taken for her beauty alone, though beauty was a thing that could tire. prophets with their bears met him at the shipcourt and said. No, go on. She is not here. Stories came from Catmount, stories of slaves and a new order. He arrived there in the daze, the craze, the dazzle and whirl of revolution, resolution. Bands roamed the streets, chanting slogans at one another, poking at the cadaver of their city as though they tried to understand why, what had happened. Children wandered in the ruins, bearing stickguns and wearing armbands. Sentries challenged his passage, women whimpered for food, shelter, kindness. And the new order, they told him, was abolitionist -- the slaves were sent away. Guns screamed and crowds shouted. But could not call him back. a field beyond the burrows, where a duel had just been fought. The grass crackled under his feet as he walked across it toward the bodies. Behind the burrows the trees rippled in the wind like green foil. One body lay swollen and still at the toe mark. The other -- the challenger and winner -- had staggered away and lay in the folds of a vast cabbagelike plant. Stinger spent, the body was dying, twitching regularly, the motion going out in slow waves along the plant's leaves. And gasping at the doors of death, the twitches becoming a shudder that gradually mounted in intensity and claimed the whole body, this man who had kept his Honor intact told Jon of a new colony in the Upper Places. There were slaves there, many were women. There was one... Jon ripped the stinger from its case of bone and plunged it into the man's stopped heart, leaving IF the other lying there in dishonor. His small ship surged out like a sea, out like a sun. IV found her at last -- in the slave camps of the Brocks. The Places streamed by -- a thousand-mile plume of white-lit bodies. A fall -- and the Places were replaced by a stream of farms. White suns blazed at his head like matches freshly struck. He found her in Thalk. Months ago a hundred larvae the size of large dogs had scaled the trees and barnacled themselves to high branches. There, in their crisp shells, they had slept and grown, transforming into near-adults that weeks later came down out of the trees and moved into the camps to take their places, leaving behind the bony shell, the Husk. Now, matured, they were going out again from the camps -- to retrieve their Husks apd bring them back as a sign of completed manhood and to save them from the soul-preyers, the scavengers who were also abroad in the land now. He went to the offices at Thalk, built of five leaves from the uthru plant. You have a girl. We have many girls. So he began again. Youhaveagirl. He told them of her face, her hair, the fragile bones beneath her skin. To them he showed the gold which, according to custom, he had taken from the dying man on Highker. Light came through the small window and filled his hands It is yours, it is all I have... H e stood near a stream, watching the Thalkian come toward him. Its head was down as it pushed its way through the soft, needle-thin, purple grass, the Husk lashed to its back. t was half his height, with slender bent legs like twigs, a ridged ovate body and a tiny immobile head. It looked up from yards away and saw him standing there. It turned to run and then thought better -- it. had taken the Honors of manhood. "Go away, scavenger," it said, blinking one of its eyelids, like the fingernail of a new-born child. "My soul will not be your prey. You will not have my Husk. jGo away. Or I shall kill you." It held its club, thicker than a man's leg, out in front of it. It crouched, preparing to fight, to swing and turn and keep the frail Husk away from the preyer. "No, hold your weapon. Your soul is not what I seek. Nor your Honor." Jon showed his palms upraised. Their shadows reached out and touched on the ground. "I know the trickery of the Thorynx." The Thalkian drew up straight, taller, and looked steadily up at him. "Years ago the men of my camp kept the huth-bird. The huth-bird is too large to move. We block off its throat aiid when it bewitches the prey into its mouth children run and remove the prey and bring it to the camps, where we all eat well." It pointed the club toward him. "The Thorynx is like this huthbird. You snare men in words, tangle them in coils of flattery and illusion. Then you take what you want, more than you need -- and you leave the rest to rot. You take our Husks, our souls, from us. You grow strong on them while we wither and die. Our camps are full with tales of your trickery."It shook the club. "You do not kill, for that would take Honor and you have none. Your deceptions are worse than honest death." "No, not mine. I am not of this world." "Another of your lies. You take an unfamiliar shape, turning a man's desire for knowledge against him." " AM an Earthman' "Earthman." Its eyelids flicked several times and the Thalkian looked away into the distance, trying to recall a thing it had heard. It came to him and the eyes came back: "The men of Earth, they chase after dreams." "No. A woman." He described her. The Thalkian listened, then pointed with its club up along the stream. "The rath fields. If the woman is what you really seek you will find her there. The raths are ripe and must be picked before they break off the stems and turn on young on the trees." He had turned to go but Thalkian spoke after him: "You are the only Earthman I have known. Good luck with your dream, whatever you call it." He turned back. "And you with yours." The Thalkian stood watching, club alert, until he was out of sight. Then it crossed the stream and sprinted toward its camp, shadows rushing behind it. And in the white light she came down from the hill, slow and quiet as a falling leaf. The suns were in her eyes and her shadows trailed back over the hill behind her. She was pale, the color of lemons bleached by the sun. Her copper hair was gone. Her bare head was scarred and dark. She limped. And somewhere out there worlds were spinning, weaving lives and faces to a patchwork fabric. Children were born. GenIF eratibns were dying. Stars were exploding, suns colliding, systems collapsing and bursting, swelling and shrinking. But for now, for here, for them -- only these two were moving together. He saw the sores along her ribs, like fists that had beat against doors until the knuckles burst and blood erupted. Her long nails, once bitten, were now torn and several were missing. Blood and dirt had spread a brown paste across them. There were marks on her fingers -- tiny parallel slits where raths had twisted around on the stem and slashed to fight at the picking. And on her back, bending her to ,a stoop, was a shield emblazoned with the Honor-colors of her lover, the Thalkian who soon would return and ceremonially offer his Husk, binding their two souls together, taking her out of the slave fields into his camp for her beauty and service. They came together at the foot of the hill. He, the wanderer -- and she. The waiter. "I came," "he said. I screamed your name in a thousand worlds. I made mountains and crossed them.  ripped the skies apart and kicked suns out of my way and stepstoned on stars. I laughed at space, I gathered the stars in a net of need. I carved a hundred worlds to ydur likeness with my Jets. But he said: "I came -- " and the shield fell back to the hard rath ground. He took her hand and together through the white light they went over hills and along the stream -- they trampled with boots and bare feet the violet grasses of Swansdown Plein. His ship slammed like a fist into the sky and together they fled with their scars (some that showed) and their freedoms (some that didn't). B ack to Merthe. And now it's evening... Across the pale red lake the sky fills with ribbons of ochre, maroon, and pearl. In a gentle wind the ribbons twirl and blend together, settling into the lake, pulling night down around them. In the last minutes a bird emerges from the trees and glides along the corridors of wind, flashing color across the copper tiles. Small things come up on the lake's edge and begin to throb softly as the twilight deepens to cobalt. Hearts and doors. Their two hearts had done business like doors and now for all time they shut them, closed themselves inside.' Outside, Sirens beckoned. Furies called and went unheard. They are sitting together on the patio. She has limped to bring him food and sits beside him, singing quietly over the nightsounds. Years have passed,' wind passing ( Continued on page # ) c riNC The Magnificent Ones used People Catchers to keep dog's best friend from destroying his kind! T rembling with anger, HoUps, Keith whimpered, "I want hart drew back a sinewy arm my Kind Master." and let it remain poised. Then he In a fury, Hobart seized him by lashed out and backhanded Keith the hair. He winced. The Pack with gnarled knuckles. Leader was giant of a man. Curly Stud Keith, out of the Gyp Loured beard and bushy mustache ise Clark, fell to the dirt. framed flaring lips. His blue eyes Arms folded over a broad hairy burned with fierce intensity. Such chest, the Pack Leader towered ruggedness, the prisoner susabove him. "All right, stud -- " He pected, had been born of crude spat the word. "Tell me some existence Outside. To think that more about life in your Magnifiuntil only yester-light, Keith had cent Metropolis." imagined Outside to be but a legWiping blood from his lacerated end, an imaginary place mentioned by gyps when they wanted to frighten their young. "On your feet!" Hobart hauled him from the dirt. "So you want to go back to your Master? You want that life of ease, all of your needs taken care of by those damn Spheres who have grabbed our Earth?" Earth? What, Keith wondered, was that? "This world used to belong to humans. Now we have to hide in it like rats -- unless our ancestors happened to be spineless enough to become pets -- " World? Pets? Hobart hustled Keith to the compound gate, then toppled him and pinned him with a foot while manipulating the latch. Keith himself was no weakling. His gyp, while teaching him to talk, had also insisted that he exercise rather than rely on the exertion-saring forces , of Radiant City. But Keith was shorter by half a head than his captor. And Keith's beard, straight and blond, suggested a temperament nothing at all like Hobart's fiery one. Oh, if only they were in the City of Force now, instead of this horrible Outride! Then he woud show his tormentor, thought Keith. He would make the glittering carpet of energy material rise up and pound Hobart in the face until he choked on his own blood! Seized' once more by beard and mane, Keith was hurled through the gate. He stumbled, fell to his hands and knees. His head hung between splayed arms. T he lithe form of a young bitch, partly wrapped in animal hides as were Hobart and everyone else out here, ran from between the two nearest shacks. "Must it be this way, Chris?" she asked the Leader. "You don't want to kill him, do you?" "I'm determined to bring out the guts in him," Hobart said. "If he has any." Keith was jostled down the main pinkway -- no, not pinkway; it certainly wasn't pink, and it couldn't plane you along -- the. main "street" of the village. "But it's unfair," the bitch pleaded, following. "He shouldn't have been brought out of the City this soon." Keith regarded her with scorn. For it was she -- Laura, out of Gyp Bernice Tallman -- who had escaped through her force-mesh fenc yesterlight to free him from his own enclosure. That was when the stray pack had come yowling down the pinkway to capture him. Now, as Hobart prodded him through the village, Keith was sickened by the squalor. The dirt on which the village sat. Shabby shacks shaped like squat cones and made up of slender rods bound at the top and smeared with clay. Hundreds of villagers who, if not actually filthy, seemed so in their crude animal hides. Keith wore nothing. Personal people were not allowed to. "I didn't know you were going to be this rough on him," Laura said. Hobart tightened his grip on Keith's beard. "Well, there's a IF reason. In four days that boatload of lodestones and magnets is due downriver from 'Tucky. The moonshiners made tons of magnets back in the hills. When the boat gets here, we attack !" She gasped. "That soon? But we've got so many preparations to make!" Keith stumbled along, bewildered. "Lodestones? Magnets?. Atr tack the City? He had to find some way to get back and tell the Masters about all this! But how could he? You couldn't actually talk with Them. Oh, They coitld understand your general feelings. But you couldn't tell Them even such a simple thing as: I'm ready to mate. Please find me a nice bitch. "Preparations, hell," Hobart snorted. "Just as soon as we get our weapons, we'll wipe out that cancer on the other side of the forest." He pointed and his arm trembled. Through a gap in the trees Keith saw the distant proud glow of Radiant City, bedimming even the Orb of All Orbs high up in the Blue Dome. He could discern only the very tops of the magnificent force structures. Lofty yellow spires of pulsating energy. Massive cylinders of emerald enchantment. Opalescent pyramids and iridescent ovoids that spun as they balanced on end, casting out merry showers of sparks and dazzling sprays of nonsubstance. How he longed to return to Kind Master and all the other Spheres who took such good care of their personal people. T he Pack Leader clubbed Keith across the back with a forearm and sent him staggering ahead. Hobart followed, shoving him first in this direction, then that, until finally they were nearing the end of the village. "But if we attack that soon," Laura protested, "we won't have time to bring all the people out of the City. Or even find out how many can be humanized." "That's why everything hinges on this miserable creature." Hobart planted a foot against Keith's buttocks and propelled himforward again -- outside of the village, towards a fenced-off area enclosing several elongated mounds, each with a "stick" standing upright at one end and another "stick" crossing the first near its top. "I don't understand," the bitch said. "I've led stray packs into the City for the past ten years," Hobart explain. "We've brought out hundreds of animalized humans, either lured them away or carried them off kicking and screaming for their Spheres." "Years" was a minor enigma to Keith. What confounded him most was this further evidence that the strays Outside were not only plotting evil against the Masters but were also stealing away Their personal people. "So?" said Laura. "So -- this creature before us is the most spineless, most subservient, most dehumanized animal we've run across in all of that time. This is the ultimate test cast. If we can break him down, we'll know that everybody in that City, and therefore in other Cities of Force, can be reclaimed as a human being." Keith was astonished. Why, only yesterlight he had imagined that his one Magnificent Metropolis filled all existence everywhere. He stole a glance at the trailing bitch, then looked away in disgust. For several hot-colds he had been avidly aware of her presence in his moundhood. Many were the times he had watched her, even shouted at her, as she exercised within the force-mesh enclosure behind her Master's mound. And each time she had shouted back or waved to him, he had torn his fingernails trying to breach the crisscross energy strands of his fence. But all the while she had apparently been only a plant, a spy, eager to tell Hobart who should be captured and taken Outside next. Such a beautiful bitch he had neVer seen before. Rich brown hair. Eyes as dazzling blue as the energy material of the most lustrous mpund. But what treachery! What evil purpose against the Spheres! And he had liked her better when she had been properly nude rather than covered with animal hides. L aura looked ahead at the area of elongated dirt mounds and crossed sticks. "You're not going to give him the graveyard shock -- not this soon?" The pack leader twisted his captive's arm into a hammerlock. Keith cried out against the bonebending pain. "He's going to get every shock treatment in the book," Hobart swore. "But why? He'll come around once everything's explained," Laura promised. "Actually he leads a miserable existence but just doesn't realize it. The Spherelets in his mound -- " Hobart turned the bitch around and shoved her back toward the village. "We've got only four days." The Pack Leader released Keith's arm and catapulted him forward, half burying his chest and head in one of the mounds. "Know what's under you?" Hobart demanded. "That's a human 'being. Know what he's doing there? He's dead -- rotting away. One of your Masters killed him." Keith did not even listen to the nonsense as he spat dirt from his mouth. His arm swept slowly along the curving surface of the mound until his fingers encountered the crossed sticks. "This is a graveyard," Hobart roared. "It's full of dead people. Most were murdered by vicious bolts hurled by your Glorious Globes! But you wouldn't know what a graveyard is, would you? You wouldn't know about dead people or murder, either. Because the Spheres are too tidy. They don't leave carcasses lying around on their pinkways." The Leader must be a madstud, Keith reflected. When Hobart spoke he made no sense. This IF entire pack of strays was mostly madstuds and madbitches. In desperation, he gripped the upright member of the crossed sticks. And it moved loosely in the dirt. "You're not listening," Hobart shouted, jerking Keith to his feet. Keith grinned through lacerated lips. Perliaps he couldn't use his thoughts, as he did with the force stuff of the City, to make the dirt heave up and strike the Leader. But he could use the crossed sticks! Lunging, he brought them crashing down on Hobart's head. He watched the Leadei fall. Then he charged off, heading for est. II E nthralled by the magnificent City of Force lying just ahead, Keith broke out of the forest and paused. He stared in renewed wonder at the luminescent panorama. Emerald cylinders and flashing orange pyramids that stabbed high into the Blue Dome. Sheets of crackling energy, scintillating with every color, imaginable, fluttering between blunt orchid cubes and slender yellow cones. Pure nonsubstance streamers that rose, wavering, from shimmering purple obelisks, thin red pylons, gaily rotating ovoids. Surrounding the entire City was the can't-see-through wall that prevented any of the personal people from even guessing that nonCity existed independent of City. Keith drew up before the great barrier. Even as he wondered whether it would let him in, the wall gaped open and a projection of crimson force stuff flicked out like a tongue to slide under his feet. It retracted, with him, into the City. The projection melted back into the carpet of pink radiance that lay everywhere. Keith fell to his knees in thanksgiving for his deliverance from the horrible village, from its uncouth madstuds and madbitches. The majestic force structures of City Central were still distant. But closer, much closer, were many rows of glittering blue mounds. He was near one of the outlying moundhoods. From this perspective he could see that he Was not too far from where he was kept. Free now, delivered from the indecency of Outside, he lifted his face to the Blue Dome -- only, it was Gray now; since the Orb of All Orbs was hidden behind clouds. He let out an exuberant cry. Blunt projections rose from the radiant pink carpet all around him, developing awkward mouths that pantomimed his shout of triumph.  Finally he sat upon the coral radiance and thought-formed a large wave against his back. It rolled forward, sweeping him before its crest. He ordered up slow propulsion at first, until he adjusted his balance. Then he by intense concentration spurred on the wave toward the nearest pinkway. For now Keith was not more than a stray. He had to reach Kind Master before he ran afoul of the People Catcher. were soon blurring by on either side of the pinkway. Only fine coordination of balance and thought impulses kept him from sliding back over the crest of his wave or being hurled into one of the force-mesh fences bordering the travel strip. He manag a sharp turn to the right, entering another pinkway. Soon he became aware of the other personal people, all safe and contented behind their force-mesh enclosures. If only he could reach his mound without incident! A Sphere approached from ahead, floating just above the pinkway. Kind Master? It could be, for Keith was in his own moundhood now. Respectfully, he planed well toward the edge of the strip as the Magnificent Being drifted by. No, that was not Kind Master. The silvery coloration differed and none of the memory-images that flicked in looping spirals along the Sphere's surface was familiar. Passing the mound of Laura's Master, Keith had only a contemptuous scowl for the empty enclosure of sapphire force-netting that curved up and over the Sphere's residence and swept all around it. Indeed, the Radiant Being who lived here was much better off with a personal person -- if His personal person happened to be so treacherous a bitch. Presently Keith dismissed the propulsive wave and slid to a halt just outside his own enclosure. Mock arms reared from the radiant carpet and lifted him to his feet. Behind his heels twin wavelets formed and moved him toward the fence. Provoked, he stom upon the elevations until the glistening pink carpet stretched once again into unbroken levelness. Of luxuries such as short-distance planing Keith wouldhave none -- a disposition instilled in him by his dear old gyp. At the fence, he inspected the force-mesh through which he had squeezed yesterUght. But all the crisscross strands of energy were back in place. The sapphire netting was one of those forms of nonsubstance that would notr spond to human thought, yet Laura had breached it easily enough in order to let him out. How? He cupp his hands about his mouth. "Kind Master! Let me in! The pack is going to hurt our beautiful City of Force!" Of course, the Magnificent Beings could not hear people. But Kind Master might sense the desperation behind his shouts and let him inmound. "Kind Master! Kind Master!" J"What's all the yapping about?" "Let's have some quiet!" Irate voices rose in protest from enclosures up and down the pinkway. no IF . A hole opened in the shimmering blue energy-substance of the next mound and out bounded a many-times-around female and one of her young: Gyp Emma and Bitchette Margo. "Your Master's outmound," the gyp revealed. She was considerably older than Keith. Although in fairly good shape, she had hair beginning to take on the striped-silver appearance of a meditating Sphere. Lines were forming in her face. Keith hoped that when it was timefor him to mate. Kind Master would search farther than nextmound. Gyp Emma gripped her forcemesh fence. "Where have you been all tolight and yesterlight?" "Outside. There really is an Outside! Horrible. No force stuff. Filled with impersonal people who steal us away and -- " He snapped his mouth shut. No sense telling her what he had learned... She would blabber it throughout the moundhood and none of the personal people would even believe her. "Gyppy, he's hurt." Bitchette Margo had spotted the effects of Hobart's backhands. "His lips are swollen. His -- " "Hush," Emma ordered, dark eyes narrowed and alarmed. Thin arms shot up from the radiant carpet and grew tender lingers that explored his puffed lips. He shov the tendrils aside and they sank back into the energy layer, "k'm all right," he said, staring up at the Dome -- dark now, though you could hardly notice the darkness against the in the City of Force. "What happens when people get too hurt,  gyppy?" Margo asked, in the fashion of curious youngsters, everywhere. "What a stupid question," Emma scolded. "I did my duty. I taught you ways, and whys. I wouldn't be surprised if Bulgy Ball -- " she nodded toward their mound -- "finds you a Master of your own pretty soon. Yet you come out with stupid questions like that." "Not stupid at all," Keith said, wishing Kind Master would return. "I often wonder about that myself. Seems there ought to be a limit to . how hurt you can get. Or how sick. Or how old." "Stud Murdock, across the pinkway, is plenty old," Margo reminded him. "But how old is too old? And what happens when you get there?" He could only shake his head. As if to mock his ignorance, three blank heads popp out of the coruscating energy-layer and swung from side'to side. "Maybe They, take you to another part of the City, to a Master who likes too-old people." T WO Majestic Beings were passing. Gliding just above the roseate stardust ribbon. They swept along at a breathless pace, silvering the coral radiance beneath Them with Their own warm glow. From the other direction came a single Magnificent One, carrying a budding Spherelet on His downspeed side. The Sphere flow had started slacking off shortly after light-dark. But, now that dark-dark could be seen upon the Donfc above the vividly luminous City, traffic was beginning to pick up again. "There's Stud Murdock now!" Margo pointed. And from the lament force stuff beneath her, several skinny arms sprang up to level stiff index fingers at the mound across the pinlmay. Egbert Murdock, out of Gyp Clara Murdock, was stumbling around in his enclosure, groping. "Poor stud gets blinder every day," observed Emma. "Lame, too." Egbert's limp was pronounced. His flesh seemed to have fled for some happier place, leaving behind only bone and wrinkled skin. And, even from across the pinkway, his frequent coughing could be heard. "He's old, Keith, isn't he?" Margo inquired. "Pretty old, huh?" "You know," Emma said, "there's a rumor about Murdock. He -- " "I'-ve heard." Keith tried to head her off. But she was determined to exhume the scandal. "They say Gyp Murdock Wasn't properly put to stud. HerMaster hadn't planned anything at all. She -- " "Yes, I know." Keith stemmed her flow of words as he watched compliant force-stuff arms rise in Egbert's yard to catch him whenever he stumbled. But proud old stud that hewas, he had enough self-reliance left to slap them away. "Keith," said Margo, "you think maybe Stud Murdock is too old?" "Hush!" Emma reproved. "As I was saying. Gyp Murdock wasn't a gyp at all. Breeding wasn't prearranged. There was this stray stud and -- and -- oh, poor Egbert!" B ut the old fellow, Keith reflected, had carri his humiliation well over all these hotcolds; So well that no one dared talk about his questionable origin while he was around. "Look," exclaimed Bitchette Margo, while glistening pink hands rose again to point for her. "There's a hole in. his mesh. He's coming out!" Indeed, Stud Murdock was upon the pinkway now, crossing. "Watch out, Egbert!" Emma' screamed. The Sphere missed him by the length of his beard. He spun twice before force-stuff hands shot up to steady him. After a fit of coughing, he came the rest of the way seated on the foreslope of a radiant wave. "That was a close one, Egbert," Keith sympathized. "Yep -- might have -- got -- hurt," the old stud said between coughs. Trembling, he ordered up an energy-substance bench from the force stuff underfoot. Keith shared it with him, but found that he had to supply the continuous thought impulses to keep it from withering out of shape. IF 'How did that hole get in your mesh, Stud Murdock?' asked, Margo hanging on the fence. "It was -- cough -- usi there. I think -- cough cough -- Gentle Globe made it. Maybe He wants me to get out and have -- coughcough -- a little fun." Emma laughed. "What kind of fun could you have now?" "None. Tm worried." "About what?" "About Gentle Globe." Egbert's 'breathing sounded like the hissing of the sparks that occasionally showered from the mound ceilings. "He keeps me by Him a lot now. And He's always a deep blue. I've never seen a sadder Sphere" "What's He sad about?" "Wish r knew. Maybe I could do something to make Him turn orange and green with happiness again." Keith was first to feel the tingling, bristling sensation that seemed to take root and grow, to die out and grow again, deep within his thoughts. "Stud Murdock," Margo shouted through her fence. "Gentle Globe's calling you. Don't you feel Him?" "Eh?" Keith stared across the pink- way. Sure enough. The old stud's' Master was drifting impatiently back and forth behind the energymesh enclosure, hurling thought commands at Egbert. Obediently, Murdock started across the ribbon of coral stardust -- and promptly was hit by a speeding Sphere. He lay on the pinkway for a while, then gathered himself up and, holding his chest, rode an ill-shaped wave back to his enclosure. Much later, after Emma and Margo had been called inmound ,and the pale Lesser Orb was hanging low in its Dark Dome, Keith lost hope that his Master would return before next lightlight. Accumulated exhaustion drove him to the edge of sleep as he sat against the outside of his impenetrable fence. He shielded his eyes against the dazling crimson luminosity of the underlying energy layer, the sparkling sapphire radiance of the force-mesh fepces, the mounds all around him, the magnificent coruscations of City Central's great geometric forcestuff edifices. Thirsty, still dirty from his forced stay Outside, he concentrate upon the pink radiance, ordering up a huge bowl. He thought upon it an extreme coldness. In moments the film of moisture condensing on its inner surface formed  drops and ran tainer. From cupped hands he drank his fill, then splashed the remainder upon his face, arms, chest, feet. Feeling cleaner now, he allowed the bowl to sink back into the levelness of the luminous carpet. Then he thought-excavated a trench in the radiance and lay in it. He let the pink nonsubstance flow back over him until only a small part of his face remained exposed. For, while he slept tmd awaited Kind Master's return, he must make certain that he would become the prey of neither Hobart's returning strays nor the People Catcher. Ill B abbling voices awoke Keith. He stared through the gap in his force-stuff covering. It was light-light. And the Magnificent Metropolis was never more lustrously alive than now -- during Food-Collecting Time. Showers of sparks sprayed from the countless energy-material structures -- mounds and moundplexes -- pyramids and pylons and spires -- cones, cyUnders and great iridescent ovoids. From the multidinous surfaces also, silveiy ribbons reached out, wavering gracefully, toward the Orb on High. The dazzling streamers were greedily sucking up its warm energy substance. Golden droplets formed along the ribbons, slid down, merged into larger pellets, then sank into the luminous surfaces of the structures: foodstuff to feed the Masters and their obedient personal people and even replenish the forms of the City. Keith heard Margo exclaim nextmound, "I saw it all! These two Spheres came and took him off down the pinkway on a sitdown wave." "How did he look?" "Not so good. Moaned and held his chest. Gyppy, what's going to happen to Stud Murdock, huh?" "Hush, Margo. Egbert has just become too old, I guess. Maybe it's like Keith says -- They find new Masters for too-old people somewhere else in the City." Then Keith could sense Bulgy Ball calling Emma and Margo back inmound. Which was just as well. He didn't feel like talking with bitches or anyone else. He concentrated on how he would try to tell Kind Master about the treacherous strays Outside-of-theCity. But other voices suddenly assailed his ears. "Here we go!" "Around the bend!" "Spur your wave. Hank. Faster." "Watch out, dmn stinkin' Spheres. We'll run you down -- " "Yip-ee! Look at all those locked-up suckers." Dismayed, Keith shrank within the covered trench he had thought-molded for himself. Hobart and his strays! They were not wearing their "animal hides" now -- so the Spheres would not guess they were from Outside-of-the-City... But already the personal people in many enclosures were rising to the vocal challenge of the pack: "Scram... Get lost..." "Leave us alone. We got us a .nice moundhood." "Look for your bitches somewhere else!" "I hope the People Catcher gets you -- all of you." "Go back Outside!" IF Keith was about to add his lusty voice to the customary outcries. Then he remembered that Outside-of-the-City was not just a foul word, but a real and terrible place. So he concentrated on preventing any imitation mouths from forming in the radiant carpet and betraying his hiding place. He could tell from the nearness and loudness of the shouted barrage that the pack had stopped in front of his hWng place. With intense concentration, so that he would not accidentally manipulate any part of the energy layer in his defense and thus give away his position, he began counting baclward from a hundred. "Well," said Hobart, "he's not here, unless he's inmound." "Why don't , we just forget about him?" queri another stray. "I want him," Hobart growled. "Laura will keep an eye on his mound while we go make our other two pickups." The strays continued on their way, returning insult for insult at full lungpower. "Lick your Master's belly!" . "Locked-up suckers..." "Break out. Learn what it means to be free!" "Fetch, boy. Good boy. Fetch, and you get a force-food ball!" Only when the pack was well away did Keith emerge. Down the pinlway, the shouting strays were being swept toward City Central on frothing stand-up waves. A glance in the other direction revealed Bitch Laura, wearing no "hide" now, staring at him from within her old enclosure. Should he force her to reveal what foul new conspiracy was hatching? Or wait here for Kind Master and try to tell Him what was going on? Or follow Hobart and learn what the pack was up to? Deciding, he ordered up a swift sit-down wave. As it propelled him along the pinkway in pursuit of the strays, he thoughtmolded another wave immediately in front of him. Riding in the trough between the two crests, he could pk over the forward one yet remain hidden behind it. their force-stuff conveyences and went loping ahead in broad, ranging strides. Others still rode. "On and on!" "Charge!" "Join the fun, you miserable locked-up people!" "Rise! We'll help you escape Hobart, riding the foremost wave, was shouting more loudly than any of them as the wind whipped his red hair and beard backward. The pinkway wound through an area of great moundplexes, some piled many layers high. Keith remained well behind the pack, not only to spy from a safe distance but also to savor the spectacle of the magnificent structures. Never before had he viewed them from such close range... Radiant Spheres were drifting in and out of them at all levels. The ribbon of pink stardust climbed sharply, curving around one of the marvelous clusters of mounds. Here it had sprouted many minor coral ram that struck off and disappeared among recesses in the towering azure 'plex. The main pinkway itself continued on toward the lofty energy-material structures of City Central. Ahead, the shouting resumed. Three of the strays had found a slow-moving Sphere. Two were sprinting in front of Him and the third planed alongside the Master, feet planted on the foreslope of a small, swift wave. They were all shouting: "Damn bully-ball! Put 'em up!"  "Ya-a-a-h! Your poppa was oblate." "Stop and fight -- " "Come on, boys. We got 'im on the run!" Hardly had Hobart's voice risen above .the general yelping with "Don't lay it on too thick!" when the Sphere flushed His surface with a menacing yellow hue and cast a vicious bolt. The stud on His right caught the sizzling streak in the chest and collapsed, charred over most of his body. Resilvering, the Sphere swept on while the pack gathered around the stricken stud. Curious, Keith brought his sitdown and hide-behind waves almost to a halt but continued to think-direct them forward slowly, peering over the advance one. Four Magnificent Masters passed him, but none seemed to pay any attention to the pack assembled around the charred, still stud. Too charred?Too still? As though in outright revolt, Keith's hide-behind wave abruptly lost its form and disintegrated into scores of long projections that coiled back around his arms and legs and held him rigidly. Only then did Hobart, still quite a few wavelengths ahead, turn and laugh. "Thought it was you all along," the Leader boasted. "Hold him, boys. But watch out for his backlash." Mortified, Keith thoughtmolded a huge cudgel out of the radiant carpet immediately in front of Hobart. But even as it drew back and swung at the Leader's head, a much thicker club reared up to parry the blow. Then one of the stringy projections tightened around Keith's neck and he could no longer even think of attack. "Watkins, Adler, LeBlanc," Hobart called out. "Concentrate on freezing all the force stuff around here, except what I want to use." The Leader came over and hauled Keith erect while the restraining nqnsubstance projections became limp and slid off his body. Gasping for breath, he ordered up a dozen forms of attack against the red-bearded Hobart and his strays. Stout projections to bludgeon them. Yawning pits beneath their feet. Strands of force stuff to bind them. But none of his assault devices materialized. Once IF again , he was a captive of the uncouth Hobart from Outside. And none of the passing Spheres seem even concerned. Gripping Keith's beard, Hobart led him over to the charred stray. "Filthy lightning-hurling fiend!" The Leader swore. He jerked Keith's head forward. "This, you ignorant animal, is a dead man! Take a good look!" "Why doesn't he get up?" Kejth asked nervously. Hobart only scowl. "Is he too still?" "Yeah, he's too still -- dead ' still!" "What's 'dead' still?" Hobart unleashed the back of his hand and it stung Keith across the mouth. "You poor, stupid, degenerate specimen," the Leader said. The other studs stood with bowed heads. A projection of the pinkway folded the too-still one's hands across his seared chest, then he began sinkijig slowly into the energy layer. Glistening force stuff flowed over and around him, restoring the pinkway's unbroken surface. i pie Catcher!" The strays picked up Hobart's cry and backed away toward City Central on reverse stand-up waves. Tinged with the rich violet of annoyance aiid the deep russet of determination, the dread Sphere came charging around the curve. Trailing behind andabove Him, in the most convenient position for casting, was His tightly knit sapphire mesh. The Leader snatched Keith's arm as though determined not to lose his captive. He thoughtmolded a propulsive swell, large enough to accommodate bbth of them. More afraid of the People Catcher than the pack, Keith went along without resistance. Carrying double, however, their escape wave was a bit slower than those hurling the other studs to the edge of the elevated pinkway. The People Catcher's net was already swinging in widening circles. As the fleeing strays let their waves wash them over the edge of the ribbonway, the People Catcher was upon Keith and Hobart. His net flared. Horrified as he watched the green mesh descending upon them, Keith wrested free of Hobart's grip, made his part of the mutual wave hurl him forward along the pihkway. Looking back, he saw the Leader being launched over the side by a slingshot of force stuff -- just in time to escape a second throw of the cast net. Reprieved by the fearsome Sphere's pursuit of Hobart, Keith propelled himself City Centralward on a towering swell of coral stardust. There were many Spheres riding the pinkway now, all indifferent to the drama of the People Catcher and the escaping strays. In this heavier traffic Keith had to concentrate on guiding his sitdown wave. The horror of the toocharred, too-still stray remained fresh in his mind although he could comprehend nothing of what had happened. Keith's wave bore him between two Spheres and around a looping curve of the ribbon as it ascended another moundplex. He hazarded a second reaiward look. Aglow with the russet of determination, the People Catcher was coming along at full speed. In the same glance, from around the inside of the curve, Keith had been able to see whatr had happened to Hobart and the other strays. They had thouhtmanipulat the edge of the pinkway into long, dangling streamers and were shinning down them intothe lower recesses of Radiant City. The People Catcher was gaining on Keith. He demanded more spi of hisave. He weaved in and out of the transient Spheres. Dipping sharply from its disying height, the ribbon carried him in- to the core of City Central, its great, glistening geometric shapes rising majestically above him. He swept past coruscating spires, beautiful emerald cylinders that rotated ceaselessly, tapering pyramids displaying manycolored splotches upon their restless surfaces, iridescent ovoids spinning gaily upon their ends. An orange-tinted cube, twirling as it balanced atop a fluorescing tower, loosed a fountain of sparks -- happy sparks that danced and gamboled as they splashed down upon lesser edifices. Oh, the beauty of City Central! The shimmering translucence of all the majestic forms, translucence that betrayed the presence inside of many Magnificent Spheres! But who could ever guess what they were doing? And overhead were awesome displays of flaming curtains and whirling halos and dasling beams, rippling ribbons of pure silver and tenuous, luminous veils of opalescent energy. All so bright that they bedimmed even the Orb of All Orbs. Keith drank in the breathtaking display. Here he was, realizing his fervent hope: access to City Central! Deeply he resented the stud named Hobart who would wrest him from all of this and take him to that hellish Outside. Yet he was grateful, too. If it had not been for Hobart's strays he would not now be cruising through this paradise of splendor. Swish! The People Catcher's net landed ' on the ribbonway, barely missing Keith. 'Another cast and he would be captured. Remembering how Hobart and the pack had escaped, Keith summoned a final measure of will power and had his wave catapult him over the side of the pinkway. As he fell he ordered the primrose stardust of the ribbon's edge to extend a streamer.to him. But he was plunging faster than the projection was stretching down! The People Catcher's net, however, descended faster still. IV away from his gyp a pre-stud sat on his haunches and wailed. In another enclosure across the IF pinkaisle, a towheaded bitch tossed her weight against the sapphire mesh and screamed to be let out of the pound. A forlorn bitchette kept murmuring, "O, Dear Radiant Roundness, come and get me!" In the next pen a surly stud paced back and forth, cursing incessantlyKeith turned over on his side and remolded the coral forcestuff slab on which he had lain all dark-dark. But no matter how much softness he thoujght into the lambent energy material he could find no comfort against his bewilderment. Miserable, he rose and stood shuddering. "Had it roughj hey?" That from the stud in the next pen. "I want my Kind Master," Keith whined. "Don't worry. He'll come -- if He is kind." "How do you know?"  "I've been through this. Fifth time around." The impounded stud was past his prime as a breeder. His hair and beard were streaked with the gray hue of a tired Sphere. His shoulders slumped. He had too much belly. "What if my Master doesn't come?" The stud shrugged. "They'll take you down the aisle there and put you in that black compartment and -- " "Yes?" "And make yob too still." "Too hurt?" "Oh, I don't know about that. But definitely too still." "Too -- 'dead'?" That was the word Hobart had used, wasn't it? "How's that?" "Forget it." Keith shook his head. Everything was so confusing. As he tried to sort his thoughts a sound caught his ear. A familiar sound. Was it possible? There it went again. "Cough-cough -- " That confused him still more. Why was Egbert Murdock here? Murdock had not been caught by the People Catcher. "Hey, Egbert," Keith shouted. "How you feeling tolight?" Murdock only clutched his ribs and coughed. At the end of the pinkaisle the mesh parted and in glided the People Catcher' With Him was Murdock's Gentle Globe! It was easy to recognize Him. He was blue all over and bright thoughtimages of Murdock could be seen flowing across His surface. They opened Egbert's mesh and caused a gentle wave to sweep him out and down the aisle. He sat with arms folded, smiling slightly as though in anticipation of a pleasant surprise, as the wave plan him into the black-walled enclosure. Gentle Globe and the People Catcher waited for a time. Then the black wall opened and Egbert, lying down, was swept out and propelled by a wave-form along the pinkaisle and out of the pound. He did not seem too hurt any longer. But after having become too caught, he now appeared too still, Keith reflected. Gentle Globe followed, radiating a deeper blue than Keith had ever seen. It was all so puzzling. So confusing. The People Catcher glided back to Keith, breached the sapphire mesh of his pen. When a wave began pushing him in the direction of the black-walled place, he suddenly felt that he ought to be afraid of an enclosure that made people too still. But abruptly the wave sank back into the levelness of the pinkaisle and the People Catcher glazed over with silver-gray indifference. And when Keith looked down the aisle, there was Kind Master drifting his way, brightly orangegreen and anxious to see His personal person again. Keith hurled himself upon the Magnificent One and with outstretched arms fondled His undersurface. And scores of hands raised themselves out of the aisle to pet the Grand Sphere,' helping Keith express his gratitude. Ohi how desperately he had wanted to be reunited with Kind Master! He would never run afoul of the People Catcher again! He would never let Hobart take him Out side-of-the-City ! Outside? Of course. The villagers -- theif conspiracy! "Kind Master!" Keith leaped up and down, waving his arms. "There's a bunch of strays trying to hurt our beautiful City! They're stealing Your personal people! They live Outside-of-the-City and  Around and around the towering Globe he went, while the radiant carpet recoiled to hurl him to heights almost' level with the Master's upper pole. And dozens of hand's rose from the force-stuff layer to help him plead for comprehension froth the Splendid Being. But the Majestic One only displayed the orange-green of contentment in splotches all over His surface. It was no use. There was noway to make Him understand A slim projection of nonsubstance snaked up out of the energy layer and looped around Keith's neck. Then, as Kind Master drifted down the pinkaisle, the leash followed, remaining attached to the coral carpet at all points along the way and drawing Keith along with it. P erhaps as an expression of the Kind One's joy at having him back, Keith was allowed inmound that dark-dark. While the Radiant Being dozed comfortably in His fluorescing niche, Keith kept a wary eye on the two Spherelets, Innocent Demon and Little Imp. He had forgotten about them. Occasionally Demon was assuming a mischievous cinnamon hue, drifting over to him, then shading off into.the yellow coloration of bolt-hurling readiness. But each time the tinge was flushed off His surface by the sable tint of frustration when He perceived that Keith was not about to budge from his sanctuary almost directly beneath the Master's lustrous rotundity. Innocent's bolts hurt, and Keith did not intend to abIF sorb any more of them than he had to. Throughout most of the darkdark Imp, too, drifted back and forth along the sparkling azure wall of the mound. He kept flashing in a succession of hues -- from the violet of annoyance into His boiling yellow bolt-hurling sheen. Then, flushed with power He dare not use so close to the Parent grayed over in slumber. Imp would drain off all that fierce energy into the coral otfpet. Immediately he would register the bluish green of disappointment, follow by the total nonradiance of blighted hope and once again the violet of annoyance to start the cycle all over again. About middark-dark, sparking time came and Keith rose, fully alert, in order to miss none of the beauty of this incomprehensible happening. Along the vaulted turquoise ceiling, vivid splotches of scarlet light chased one another in a dance interrupted only when two of the blobs collided. Then showers of hissing sparks scaded out and down. Everywhere they fell, the blue force material of the walls and the soft energy s(uff of the floor would take on new, glowing splendor. Kind Master, still hover-dozing in His alcove, stirred and turned lazily about his axis. His surface taking on the silvery tinge of wakefulness. As Innocent Demon and Little Imp hid behind the-golden fountain, Keith resumed his attempt to communicate the treachery. "Don't You understand. Master? They're Outside. They're taking away personal people. The strays want to hurt our Magnificent Metropolis!" Countless pairs of imploring arms grew out of the carpet to mimic his supplicating gestures. But it was futile. He just wasn't getting through to Kind Master! Keith glanced at the alcove's lustrous wall just as several forcefood balls were popping out of the places where they had been embded. They hovered ' just above his head -- delicious morsels from the Orb of All Orbs. Sphere food! And they were to be his, if only he did what was expected of him. Excited, he sprang into the air and came dqwn on his palms. He teetered for a moment but finally held still, arms stiff and corded as they supported his inverted form. Oh, these were the happy times -- when Master was awake and Imp and Demon hid on the other side of the sparkling fountain! He sprang erect and Master let one of the pellets drop into his mouth. Delicious. Sphere food was a rapture in itself. Next, the twirling handsprings. But careful! Not too far away from the Radiant One or he would be exposed to bolts from the Spherelets. More force-food balls. Then the cartwheels. With Master glowing orange-green all over. And more delectable pellets to melt in his mouth and trickle down his throat. Tiring, the Glorious Sphere finally filmed over with the gray tinge of slumber. K eith felt contentment too. Really, why bother about the threat -- threat, indeed -- of Hobart and his wretched strays? Certainly they could do nothing to harm the Radiant Ones and Their City. He stepi closer to Kind Master, sent his eyes roving over His. surface, Occasionally something would attract his attention and he would return again and again to the spot. Most of the memory-pictures that flowed fuzzily across the sleep-grayedsurface of the Sphere, however, we as incomprehensible as the Illustrious Ones Themselves and Their Magnificent Metropolis. Here: a sequence of idea-images limned in vivid colors -- memories of a flight over the pinkways of City Central. There: great flashes of light and shimmering nimbuses climbing pearly walls and occasionally arranging themselves into rings that linked and unlinked. They were recollections of happenings in the lofty spire to which Master went every dark-light and . returned every light-dark. Oh, if only he could understand some of these idea-pictures and memoir-images that flicked -- sometimes in spirals, sometimes in great curves -- across Master's surface! Working his way around the Sphere, Keith suddenly came upon an image that he could understand -- almost. There, in the animated scene, was Kind Master. And next to Him was someone else's Master. They were within the sapphire force-stuff enclosure just outside the Very mound he was in now. Between them stood a bitch. Sensing the meaning behind the image, Keith tried desperately to make out her 'features. Impossible. For a Master was not good at telling personal people apart -- except His own personal person, of course. The bitch was without detail in the Sphere's memory. Nevertheless Keith wanted to know what she looked like. For he sensed that she was going to be put to stud. And, just as certainly, he knew he would be the stud. For the first time he was going to consummate his studship. Keith, inhis pride and anticipation, forgot all about Demon and Imp. But Little Imp, taking advantage of His Parent's slumber, had glided from behind the golden fountain and was flaring with the vivid orange-green of delight. The hues rainbowed through the cinnamon of mischief-contemplation and turned a threatening yellow. The Spherelet hurled his bolt. Scoring a near-miss, the sizzling streak produced the smell of seated flesh and an ugly welt on Keith's shoulder. Enraged, he lunged from behind Master and ordered the radiant carpet to spin him around -- just in time to se Innocent Demon turning cinnamon. IF But before Demon could dedde upon a method of torment, Keith made a great wave of the floor wash him across the room. He rained a series of indignant kicks against the Spherelet's surface; The little Master turned peagreen with fear and scurried, together with Imp, into the sparkling alcove beside their Parent. As they arrived. Kind Master was silvering with wakefulness -- a reaction, no doubt, to the frightthoughts assailing Him fropi His Spherelets. And. His mercurial cast immediately gave way to yellow. The tinge collected into a small dot on His surface and came hurtling at Keith -- an ominous zigzag bolt! It melted a huge area of the carpet immediately in front of him. Only a warning bolt, luckily. Then the floor of pink stardust molded a cresting wave taller than Keith himself. It swept him toward the thick azure wall of the mound. The wall spread open long enough for him to be washed out into the yard. Then it closed behind him. V N ext Ught-Ught, Keith huddled in his sulking corner outmound, drawing little comfort from the Orb on High's warmth. Imp's mischievous bolt had left his shoulder raw. And there were blisters on his legs, raised by the sparks from Kind Master's warning bolt. He was busy think-dismissing the solicitous hands of force stuff that insisted upon exploring his hurts when he noticed a Radiant Being drifting toward his enclosure. The Magnificent One floated at such a height as to apir to be a gigantic, silvery head sitting upon the shoulders of the bitch who trailed behind Him on a nonsubstance leash. But what a bitch! What a body! His captivated stare was accompanied by dozens of spurious, unseeing eyes flung up on longstemmed stalks out of the radiant ground before him. His bitch! Keith sensed it. He could not quite see her face, not at this angle. But her swaying hips displayed a graceful rhythm. Her skin was firm and smooth with youth. Surely she was a firsttime-out bitch. When her Master reached the fence, its sapphire netting parted. She was washed into the enclosure, the leash slipping from her neck and sinking into the pink-fadiance. Restoring the fence's energy strands, the Sphere withdrew down the pinkway. "Hello, there," Keith began excitedly -- tritely, too, he realized. "Are you ready for -- " The bitch turned to face him and he gaped. Laura! From the mound down the pinkway. From Hobart's village, too. He sprang. "I've got her. Kind Master," he shouted over his shoulder. "I've got the treacherous Outside bitch!" A projection of force stuff rose to snag his lunging instep and he plopped to the radiant carpet. Even so, he thought, this was not her village. This was his territory. He would show her. He thought-fashioned a lariat out of the carpet and thought-hurled its loop catching her around the waist. But she plucked from her hair the short, Hat bar she had used four yesterlights ago to free him from his enclosure. She touched the noose with the thing. Instantly it sucked up the whole lariat, together with the part of the energy layer to which the lariat had been attached. "Keith," she said, "I've got to make you understand that -- " He thought-tossed coils of pink radiance around her ankles and tried to think-tug her off her feet. Again she used the bar to suck up the coils. While she was thus occupied, however, he made the coral carpet catapult him toward her. She had expected that. She thought-erected a hard shell of nonsubstance. He slammed headlong into it, the impact felling him. Cunningly he remained motionless while the pink carpet restored its levelness. She hurried to him on a small stand-up wave. "Keith, are you all right? Did I hurt you?" He might have got away with his deception. Except that while he lay still, he caused several arms to ease up out of the energy layer and reach for her. "Sorry," she said. And a piece of the backyard whacked his skull, bringing on unfeigned unconsciousness. cries. "Yipee! Suckers. Suckers!" "Get out of the way, damn blubber balls!" "I'm a stray... Hooray, hooray..." "Don't you suckers want to escape and have some fun?" "Faster. Ride the pinkway. Let freedom ring!" As Hobart and his pack came sweeping around the curve on cresting waves, Laura held her bar close to the fence mesh. The sapphire strands squirmed out of shape, fashioning a large hole. But the whole moundhood was shouting back at the villagers now: "Hit the pinkway, you filthy strays!" "Go back where you came from -- " "People Catcher! Where's the People Catcher?" Keith launched himself at Laura. Seizing her with one hand, he reached for the small bar with the other. But she tossed iCto Hobart through the opening in the mesh. A projection of nonsubstance shot up from the carpet, looped around Keith's neck and yanked him away from Laura. Hobart barked orders. "Johnson, Adler, DuBois, keep all this energy-layer stuff immobilized. Laura, come on out. Hit the pinkway for the village. Hank, Bradford; see that she gets there okay." Laura hurried through the gap in the mesh. IF "Came as soon as McAllister brought your message," the Pack. Leader said. "We get here in time?" She nodded, then summoned up the pinkwave that would take her, together with Hank and Bradford, back Outside. "Go easy on him," she advised, as she thought-washed herself away. "He can be brought around. I'm sure." Keith surged against his choking neck-shackle. "Bring her back," he screamed. "She's my bitch." Hobart came through the mesh. "Okay, boys, let the force stuff loose. I'll take over." Even as the honsubstance fet-' ter flipped from Keith's throat, he thought-molded a bludgeon out of the radiant carpet and directed it to club the Leader's head. But Hobart's devastating knuckles smashed into Keith's face first. D ark. Dark. Such frightful darkness, thought Keith. Shrinking from the vast nonradiance that engulfed the village, he reached down to the strips of hide that bound his feet. "Don't touch' thoSfe," Hobart shouted out of the adjacent dark. "And keep those clothes on. We're human out here." Keith waited for the backhand. This time it did not come. "Let me try reasoning with him," Laura urged from other darkness. "Shock's the medicine, not rea " "I'd say this one can't be humanized, Ho," ventured a stray assigned to guard Keith. Hobart swore, "He'll make it or die trying." "But that boatload of magnets is due tomorrow. We attack the City at nightfall. It's impossible to bring him around before then." "We've got to take time to prove out this test case," Laura persisted. "If he doesn't come through, that could mean we'll find ourselves with hundreds of people on our hands who'll simply die without their lousy Masters." "Take time? So the Spheres will have a chance to detect our magnets?" Hobart stomped off in a huff. Keith watched the Leader kneel and, after a while, produce one of those bundles of dancing yellow projections that strays called "fire." Laura, in animal hides, studied Keith intently. She moved closer and the guard halved his distance. "You'll be all right, Keith," she comforted. "The darkness around us is only natural. You'll get used to it." What a miserable place, Keith thought. Thick forest cut off starlight, moonlight, even the glow of the distant City. The wan fire was a laughable substitute for the magnificent radiances and sparkling illuminations that the spheres knew. "You see, Keith, we must destroy the City and free the personal people. We have a moral commit -- " "No! You and I are going back and you're going to be my firsttime-out bitch and -- " Seized by the shoulders, he was lifted and spun around. Then his head snapp back with the jarring impact of a backhand blow. "We don't use that word out here," Hobart growled. "Not unless we're mad as hell and ready to fight." Keith rubbed his cheek. "Is she your bi -- " Whap! "She's a woman," snarled Hobart. "You hear that? A woman. But not mine. I'm too busy for women -- I'm organizing a revolt, collecting animals and turning them into people, receiving supplies from upriver, raiding library ruins." Keith made it back to his knees and looked at Hobart. Supplies? Upriver? Library ruins?  "Chris," Laura said, "don't hurt him." Bitter was Hobart's laugh. "I couldn't hurt him any more than he's already been hurt." He turned back to Keith. "Quit groveling. Up and out of the dirt!" The Leader slipped something hard and shiny between his captive's ankles and the thongs fell away. But Keith merely whined, "I want my Master." Hobart seized his arms and jerked him erect. Whap! Another mouthful of knuckles. "Well, aren't you going to do something about it?" the Leader demanded. Keith commanded the ground to rise and strike Hobart with many projections of force stuff. But even his most desperate inner pleadings could not stir a ripple in the coarse brown-black nonradiance. "Fight, damn you!" Hobart challenge. Keith lunged awkwardly and threw a fist at his tormentor. Laughing, the pack l.eader easily dodged. He raised his hand as if to swing but Laura stepped in front of him. "Please, Chris. He's had enough for now." Hobart walked off into the. darkness. "He struck at me, anyway. We may just possibly be witnessing the creation of a man." K eith awoke to the cold pressure of obstinate ground beneath his aching body... But had he been a Magnificent One surely he would have turned orangegreen all over, for it was lightlight at last. "Feeling better now that the darkness is gone?" Laura asked, stepping out of the nearby mound -- "shack," rather, Keith remembered. There were many other shacks. And many studs and bi -- well, men and women, moving among them. His eyes swept the area. He tensed when he noticed, not too far off, something that might be a pinkway. It rose gracefully from the ground, climb until it was higher than a Sphere, then made a broad sweep and twisted around under itself. Beyond were other IF pinkways curving up and over one another and sending off ribbonways in all directions. Keith blinked. Why, they weren't pinkways at all! They did not shimmer. They did not look the least bit like coral stardust. Rather, they were light gray in color, like tho hue, of a sleeping Master. Oh, there 'was nothing out here to compare with the splendid structures in the City of Force! Here everything was drab. There was no radiance anywhere, except that from the Orb on High. He raised his arm's to the Majestic Light Giver that dominated the measureless Blue Dome. "O, Great One!" heintoned. "Take me back -- " "No, Hobart!" Laura cried. Too late. Whap! ""Sun, animal!" Hobart raged. "TAesun. Say it!" "Sun," Keith conceded. "That's better. I -- " Keith lashed out with his fist and felt it crunch against jawbone beneath the red beard. Hobart raised himself half off the ground and sat there feeling his chin and laughing. "Exit animal, enter human?" He sprang up, wrapped an arm about . Keith's shoulders. "Nice going, Keith. Hungry?" Keith frowned down at the carrying-slab that the guard placed before him. On it lay perhaps a dozen peculiar things: dull gray -- bowls? -- each the size ofa cu'pped hand. Rough and with small bumps and ridges on the outside. The insides were white, and in each lay a gray blob. "What kind of force-food balls are those?" "Oysters. From Lake Pontchartrain, a couple of miles down the expressway." Hobart tossed one of the blobs in his mouth, threw away its bowl, then offered a shell and oyster to Keith. He accepted it gingerly and slid the blob into his mouth. "Chew," Hobart urged. The oyster was nasty and vulgar. It tasted nothing at all like the delicious pellets Kind Master bestowed so generously whenever Keith performed well. He swallowed queasily. Hobart slapped him on the back. "You'll like 'em after a while. Hank, as soon as he's ready march him to the first overpass. We're making up a library scrounging party and another to unload the magnets. He's going to get the hell shocked out of him." The Leader paused and searched the Blue Dome, which more ominous dark-gray ones. "We may be able to give him the full treatment before tonight. Looks like it's making up for some weather." "Hey!" Hank was jubilant. "That's a thunderstorm brewmg. "Could be," Hobart said hopefully. "But it's a long way off." VI pass, Keith passed a number of shacks. Men and women were under the overpass he found Hobart addressing a large group of men. "Watkins will lead a simple library scrounging party. Recently he dug down to a new vault, found a lot of permabooks and more Armageddon reels. The party will pick up the stuff. The rest of us will unload that boatload of magnets." "When can we see the reels?" someone asked. "Now, Morty, you know we have to wait for a thunderstorm." Keith studied several queer. nonforce-stuff things arrayed in a row under the overpass. Each consisted of a flat slab, waist-high, with a non-nonsubstance ring at each corner. The lower curves of the rings sat in the dirt, while their hubs supported the configurations. The Leader leveled a rigid finger at Keith. "We're taking our test animal along. Everybody keep an eye on him. Hasn't learned about loyalty, yet." IF Keith leaned back against a cube with two curving projections protruding from opposite faces and regarded Hobart scornfully. What did such as Hobart know about loyalty? For no apparent reason, Hobart sprang upon him. Whop! This time it was a fist that delivered the blow. The Pack Leader loomed over him. "That's a hand generator you propped yourself against, you damn fool! Just touch those cranks when we don't have the cover of an electrical storm, and you'll have a dozen Spheres breathing bolts down our necks!" "Look, son," Hank said,, not unkindly, "that thing makes electricity, sec?" Lek-tris-City? Could they build their own Metropolis out here? "The Spheres don't like our electricity. Maybe they would have just ignored us when they came and took over our world. But we had phased current -- something they can't tolerate. That's why they destroyed civilization. But we've discovered something else they can't stand. Magnetic force fields -- " "Let's go," Hobart interrupted. "If we run into a Sphere, just drop the carts and start whooping it up like strays." But the Leader's words blazed in Keith's mind like the most vivid memory-images on a Magnificent One's surface: Just touch those cranks... have a dozen Spheres... So there was a way to alert the Masters to this Outside threat! Several of the men tugged on projections extending from each slap. The platforms rolled on their rings onto the gray expressway. T he trek was an exhausting ordeal. At one point Keith dropped down upon the grayway and sat there breathing heavily. Oh, if he could only be with Master, enjoying all the comforts and delights of the City of Force! There was the edge of the City now -- so 'close that the can't-seethrough wall of radiant stardust rose high beside the grayway ahead. He thrust imploring hands towards the treasured haven, knowing that Kind Master was somewhere within all that glistening brightness. So heartfelt was his yearning that the glittering wall grew two great, gyplike arms and extended them toward him, atremble with endearment. "Knock it off." DuBois kneed him in the back. "On your feet. We don't want to get left!" Keith pleaded with the surface of the grayway to bulge up into a wave of effort-conserving self-propulsion. But the hard, miserable stuff behaved as though he were directing no thoughts at it. DuBois lifted him and they trudged onward. The radiant, receptive arms that had reached out toward him flowed back into the coral barrier. This grayway was nothing like the City's shining pinkways, Keith told himself. It heaved up here and there in broad, tilted slabs where stout trees were pushing up through it. LFgly, brown masses were cluttering it, ancient mounds with grass growing all over them. If you looked closely, Keith notic, you could even see what once might have been four rings beneath each one. Finally they reach the "library." Everywhere were great chunks and slabs of nonforce stuff, tilted crazily, strewn about, covered with soil, grass and trees. The Leader came over. "While Watkins' party gets the permabooks and the others go unload the boat, you come with me. Something to show you." Hobart clamber up the face of a huge, tilted slab. Crawling from treelet to treelet, they finally arrived at the top. From this dizzying height, Keith could see far along the grayway. Off to his right was the resplendent City of IF cent. He stared at Central City's vivid spires and cylinders, its sparing ribbonways and glistening, sparking cubes and pylons, and his eyes became moist. "Not there!" Hobart backhanded his shoulder and he wobbled. "Here -- all around us!" Keith stared down. They were in the midst of a vast field of broken, leaning slabs of huge, formless clumps of grayness, of crevices and chasms -- all being swallowed by green growth. "Thank your Spheres for that." The Pack Leader snarled. "This was once a beautiful city -- a city of concrete and steel and glass, of people, ambitions, pride, lights and festivals." City of man? Men never had cities! "And do you know what happened?" Hobart raged oji, fists; clenched. "This is whai your Magnificent Spheres did to it! They came from -- somewhere. Another universe, maybe. Popid through all over. And just like that -- " he snapped his fingers -- "they had a whole world. Of course, there was a little cleaning up to do -- like smashing all of our cities and towns and homes." The man had wound himself into a frenzy. "But we're not finished," he shouted. "And we won't live like dogs. Tonight we'll shojv them that we can strike back!" Keith could hardly keep from laughing at such stupid arrogance. Hobart thrust out his arm. "See that? That's the Missisrippi." At first Keith thought it must be a huge pinkway -- broad and twisting and glittering. "See the boat ti up at whaf used to be a wharf?" Nodding, Keith supposed it was the "boat" thby had n talking about. Oval in shape, it lay at the edge of the Missi -- the Missisomething. Approaching it over the rubble were carts towed by men. "Well, it's just brought us the weapons we need -- lodestones and magnetized metal. Damn it, you should be being us to use them on that festering City. Keith wondered how he could stop them, whether their "generator" thing would actually summon the Masters. But for some reason his thoughts kept going back to the shaggy "Reb" that had silently performed and begged for its food. B ack in the village it was midlight -- no, "noon," Keith corrected himself -- when Hobart left him with Laura and two guards who forced him to eat something called "fried fish." He had been finished for some while when the Leader returned. "How'd he do this time?" "Kept it all down," Laura boasted. "He may be over the hump," suggested one of the guards. "Just a matter of getting him to admit he's human." Hobart smiled vaguely. "Think so?" He put his arm around 'Keith's shoulders. "Son," he said, "we're going to let you go back to the City." "Oh, no -- you don't mean it -- realtyV Keith exulted. Whap! Grayway-hard knuckles backhanded his face. "Over the hump, eh?" Hobart mockedthe guard. "But we've had him only a couple of days!" Laura's voice carried the blue hue of Spherical sadness as she kneeled beside Keith. "The other pick-ups had weeks!" Hobart shrugged. "Our magnets are deployed all along the western edge of that City. They might be detected. So we can't wait. Tonight we hit our target." He glanced at Keith. "Looks like we're going to be stuck with a lot of dumb, hopeless animals after all." A returning "fishing party" broke through the tall grass and its leader sprinted up to Hobart. "It's the widow Wooley!" the woman exclaimed. "Drowned!" Hobart's forehead crumpled as he watched two of the fisherwomen carrying a third between them. "What happened?" "Fell into the. lake. Current washed her under the seawall." The bearers laid down their burden nearby and Keith could see that the fisherwoman was still, very still. Much later, when several men came with "shovels" (Laura explained the word), Keith was still waiting to see when the "drowned" woman would start moving again. But she remained motionless as they carried her to the -- "graveyard." He became alarmed as everybody gathered around and the Leader said soft words while the shovelers scooped a hole in the dirt. "Hobart, what are they doing?" Keith demanded. "Burying her." "Why?" "So she doesn't stink up the place. She's dead." Hobart laughed grimly. "She's too still. Dead still. Remember?" Keith only stared at him. "It means she won't ever move around or think again." Certainly Hobart was having fun with him. "What will she do?" "She'll lie there and rot. All the flesh will fall off her bones and the bones will turn to dust." "But -- what will happen to het'l" Keith felt that he was treading the edge of a vast and horrible unknown. "Gh, Chris," Laura said. "Go easy with him, please." "No! The truth is what makes a man out of an animal." By now the shovelers had pla the drowned fisherwoman in the hole and were throwing clumps of dirt on top of her. Keith felt terrified, small, lost. "That's death, Keithie boy," Hobart rasped. "That's what happens to all of us eventually!" "To -- me -- too?" "Yes. You poor, damn simpleton." "But -- but I'm afraid. I can't believe -- " "Wise ' up, Keith. Throw off t IF your degenerate ignorance. Learn what it means to be a man -- a mortal man!" Keith reared erect in deflance. "You're a liar, Hobart! This can happen only Outside. In the City, if anybody becomes too still or too old or too hurt, the Spheres simply find him a new kind Master." Hobart laughed scornfully. "So you'd rather live in the City, dopig tricks for your food, letting the Spheres bre you when and to' whom they wish? Because then you caii go on thinking life is endless?" Keith squared his shoulders. "I'd rather be bred than -- dead!" The Leader was stumped, but only for a moment. "Think back, Keith. That wasn't a live corpse we buried in the force stuff of the pinkway when you were with us." Panic and forlorn desperation brought on by vast, unfolding truth rose once again in Keith. There had been Stud Murdock, too -- so old, so hurt, so still when he had come out otthe black-walled box in the pound. Terror and helplessness exploded into piercing convictioii. Too still. Forever stiH. Keith dropp to his knees and buried his face in his hands. Laura reached out to him. But Hobart pulled her back. "Poor jerk. Leave him alone. Until a few moments ago he had no concept of mortality. Subjectively, he was immortal." The Leader laughed. "A true god." "And now?" Laura asked, as though she didn't know. "And now he's aware that some day he will die. An animal can't realize that about itself. Therefore he must recognize that he's a man." T hey let him lie besides the fresh mound with its new cross most of the afterli -- "afternoon." His guards had been withdrawn to a resictable distance. Only Laura remained close. Sometimes Keith's eyes even sought out the distant spires of the City of Force. But he rejected bitterly its false promise. For knowledge had been forced upon him. He knew now that the Spheres were cruel tricksters, that the kind Masters were not kind at all. For They had lied to him. They had led him -- and the other personal people -- to believe that existence was endless. Disillusionment brought hate for them. And deep fear. Fear of death. Eventually Laura came and sat by him, soothing his head upon her shoulder. Her softness and nearness brought comfort, somehow forced back the encroachment of fear. Was it possible that she could make him forget his certain nonendlessness? He looked into Laura's blue and beautiful eyes, and he smiled for the first time since he had left the City of Force. Her face glowed like the surface of an iridescent ovoid as she smiled back at him. That face, he saw, had all the warmth of the radiant carpet of shimmering stardust. "Oh, Keith," She pressed her cheek to his. "You're going .to make it." An immense nonSphere bolt lanced down in the distance and the sky jumbled mightily as big drops of water splash down. Another thunderbolt. And another. And all the while the sky became darker. Suddenly there was Hobart atop the overpass, shouting down upon the village; "Armageddon reels!" His hands were cupped about his mouth as the mounting wind tossed his beard. "We're going to show Armageddon reels! On the double! Storm won't last long!" rush of the villagers into the recess under the overpass. Hank raced to the hand generator and began whirling its cranks. Hobart was standing behind an odd cubelike object with two reels attached to its side and a short cylinder poking out of its front surfade. There was a whirring sound and the little cylinder hurled a beam of radiance. It fell upon the washed-out wall in a large square pattern. Keith was perplexed, for now it appear to him that the square was just an opening. For through it he could see -- a City! Not a City of Force. Nevertheless, a true City. Made up of many soaring forms of solid substance. Ajnong the clumps of forms, there were broad grayways running alongside greenways of trees and grass. "Greetings," said a deep, emotional voice. "If you are seeing this, our mission will have been , fulfilled. You will have retrieved the time-capsule units from the vaults of the New Orleans Public Libraiy."... Keith gasped. All along the grayways in that magical scene were shiny, sleek things of every color imaginable, gliding along on four rings. Inside were people! "This," the sad voice continued, "will be the last of the Armageddon reels, for little time is left. All that remains now is for suicide crewsto process this film underground and vacuumpack it." Laura, close behind Keith, whispered, "They're memory-images. Just like the ones we can see on the surfaces of the Spheres. Only these are images of proud people who lived long ago." llie flickering scenes portrayed more towering structures, the faces and clothes and .belongings of fleeing human beings. "The Spheres are due any moment," said the voice. "Full evacuation has been ordered.'" The square memory-image steadied on the wall, showing a pair of tall obelisklike forms stabbing the sky. Fascinated, the villagers watched scores of shimmering motes appear in the distance, aglow with the boiling yellow of bolt-hurling readiness. IF Like glaring evil eyes, the Spheres came and hovered over the soaring structures, casting fierce bolts in every direction. A great splash of blinding light . here, and one of the obelisks crumpled. Another superbolt there, and an elevated expressway lashed back upon itself, strewing the shiny moving things in every direction. The scene changed. Still a third bolt, and a great arch spanning the Mississippi collapsed into the water. "Cut!" Hobart shouted, yanking on something long and thin that extended from the hand generator to the meniory-image hurler. "Cut," acknowledged Hank, bringing the cranks of the generator to an abrupt halt. "Storm's over outside," Hobart explained. T he villagers filed out of the recess, leaving Keith alone in the murkiness intensifying as night approached. He sat in a corner, head almost touching his updrawn knees. For the moment, endlessness was far from his mind, as was fear of the darkness that would soon engulf him. "Kind" Masters? "Generous" Globes? "Magnificent" Ones? He shuddered. Rising, he walked over to the hand generator. Could he make those gripping Armageddon scenes come back on the wall? He seized the handles and spun them. But he could produce no radiance. He cranked until he was exhausted. When he went outside, Hobart was giving orders to men and women gathered about many fires. Laura noticed Keith first and pointed him out to the Leader. They came over, together with Hank, and Hobart asked, "Well, Keith, think it all out?" Keith hesitated. The Leader clenched his fists and raged. "Good God, man! A human being is born to be free -- to exercise his industry and initiative -- to take his chances with success and failure -- to climb as high as luck and his own capability will let him. Why can't you understand?" Keith expected either a backhand or a balled fist. But he stood there unflinching. "I want to take my chances. I want to use the magnets." "Did you hear that?" Hank exulted. "Damn right I heard it!" The Pack Leader grinned. Laura hugged Keith. "You made it!" Firelight sparkled 'in her eyes and made her cheeks glow like pink -- No! Keith reversed himself. There was nothing in all of .Radiant City to compare with the soft beauty of Laura. "I wanted to see more of those memory-images," he said. "I turned those cranks but -- " Hobart gaped. "What did you say?" "The cranks -- I turned and turned -- " "When?" "Just now." Hobart sent his sonorous voice booming out over the village: "Attack parties deploy! The Spheres will be here any minute! Unassigned personnel take to the forest!" T he village was a blur of motion. Men, women, children stumbled over one another, hurdling their fires and lunging off into the darkness. Palms upraised, Keith pleaded, "I -- I didn't know, Chris., I forgot about the -- 'lectri-city." "Not your fault, Keith. You didn't realize -- " Laura screamed and pointed. in their direction, jewels against the blackness of night. "Hank," Hobart said, "get Laura out of here. Man your assault positions." Dismayed, Keith watched the glittering motes grow to the size of twin suns over the forest. "Down!" the Leader ordered, pulling him to the ground. "We don',t know what they're seeing -- or sensing. But we can't let them get back to their City." He took several bar magnets from his waist pouch and spread them on the ground. Keith reached over and grabbed a couple. The fiercely glowing Spheres were high above the village now. And the drab shacks and cluster of overpasses and underpasses were bathed in their awful, menacing radiance. Suddenly one Sphere loosened a superbolt. The hit sent great hunks of the elevated expressway hurtling into the night. The other Sphere dropped to just above ground level and drifted toward the ovess. Hobart waited until it was almost upon them. Then he leaped up and hurled a magnet. The bar embedded itself in the Sphere's glowing surface, whereupon the creature immetely began to shrink, shrink -- and it was all gone, leaving dense darkness where it had bn. The other Sphere swooped down as if to learn what had happened. Bewilderment was betrayed by the purplish cast now flooding its surface." Hobart lurched erect and hurled another bar. It missed. But Keith had sprung into action. His magnet thuddra into the Sphere's undersurface. It dwindled to nothing. The Leader rained thumps on Keith's back. "Today you are a man! Let's go catch up with the assult force." T he line of assault, several hundred abreast, had already pushed past the shimmering outer wall. Magnets, hurled ahead of the march, had completely sucked in the radiant nonsubstance, together with the coruscating carpet of energy material beneath it. Every man and woman in the attack force, including Keiths, was weighted down by waist pouches filled with magnets. Trailing behind came the supply carts, heaped with inore weapIF ons and tugged along by spetl details. Youngsters scurried among the carts, retrieving magnets already hurled. The pouches of the' attackers were kept wellfilled. It was a neatly planned operation, Keith had to acknowledge as he pushed ahead. Several paces on his left marched Hobsirt, and Laura on the rit. Beyond them advanced Hank, Watson, DuBois, Adler and many other villagers Keith recognized in the radiance of the force-stuff structures that lay ahead of them. Having covered the area between the outer barrier and the first moundhood, he looked back and saw that the line of attack had left notluAg glistening behind it. The magnets worked magic. He hurled ar bar at the nearest mound, even as Hobart and Laura and everyone else in the line cast, weapons at targets of their own choice. Great patches of pinkway were disappearing before them. Sapphire mesh enclosures twisted and then shrank. Whole domes were being sucked up. And the Spheres within, trying to squeeze through the openings made by magnetic attraction, were drawn against the ends of the hungry bars and swallowed. As radiant nonsubstance evaporated before the attack, personal people rose, dazed, from the dirt that had underlain their mounds and enclosures. Suddenly Laura screamed. Keith spun in her direction. One of the Spheres had escaped its ipound and was hovering above her, already yellowing with its bolt-hurling hue. He sprinted over and heaved a magnet. But the Magnificent Bng was too high to Im within range. Shoving the girl behind him, he tensed as he watched the evil power lance out. It would have hit him full in the chest. But the UghtningUke streak curved slightly and jabbed into -- actually was attracted to his pouchful of magnets! He was not even singed as the bars held the streak frozen in midair. Gradually they sucked up the shaft of energy, drawing the Sphere along on its bolt-turned-Ieash. His pouch swallowed the last of the streak, then the now fist-sized creature as though in a final gulp. Shaking, Laura clung to him for a moment -- until Hobart's triumphant laughter jarred her erect. "Sorry I couldn't get over to help," the Leader shouted from his position in the line. "But I had an idea the magnets would do something like that. Now we know for certain. Back to your places. Let's get on with it!" The attack continued, pressed more vigorously now that wqrd had been passra along the line and everyone knew the magnets also afforded protection against bolts. T hroughout the night Keith, glancing left and right while the assault swept over the City, saw many a Radiant Master drawn into a pouchful of magnets at the end of its harmless bolt. At one point, scores of the things mounted a counterattack. But each eventually gave up the last glimmering radiance of its life to a pouch filled with magnets or to a hurled bar. The great moundplexes and the hulking cubes and pyramids, pylons and cylinders of City Central ruired a more intensive assault effort But magnets scattered at their bases were sufficient to begin the sucking-up process. Slowly the proud edifices sank, losing their nimbuses, their emissions of showering sparks, their sheets and streamers of energy. Special details remained behind to finish them off while Hobart, with Keith and Laura and the bulk of the attack force, pushed on to swedb the rest of the Radiant Metropolis from end to end. Counterattacks continued throughout early mornjng. Not until shortly before dawn did the few remaining Spheres realized the suicidal hopelessness of attempting to hurl bolfs. These Beings eventually fled, disappearing over the horizon. At the eastern edge of what had been the City of Force, Keith turned to survey the results of their attack. Not radiant structure anhere! He saw only rubble on which the City had stood. The assault forces rushed about, retrieving magnets and herding frightened personal people into bewildered groups. But not all were frightened or bewildered. Noticing Bitchette Margo in one of the groups, Keith' rushed over to her, tried to talk reassuringly. "Everything will be all right," he told her. "You're free now. Don't be scared." "Who's scared? This is marvelous!" She clapped her hands. "Who needs a Master?" He laughed. "You look wonderful in those animal skins, Keith," she said. Staring into his eyes, she added, "If I let you have me, will you get me some of them?" Keith laughed again, walked off to another group. Laura was talking to them. She took his hand. "Don't worly, Keith. They'll all be humanize. You proved they could be." He wipra grime from his face. "I wasn't all that unhuman, was I?" "Not to me. I knew all along -- " Feeling like a man, he acted like one. He kissed her. "Break it up!" Hobart growled, signaling them to follow him. "Got to get a rehabilitation program going and move camp at the same time. May not be too long before those uys -- " he indicated the direction in which the Spheres had retreated -- "come back with their big brothers." "Where are we going?" Keith asked. "After we get things under control, we'll split up. Send training units all over. There are 'stray packs' operating outside many another City of Force. And every one of those cities is begging for the magnetic treatment." # IF OF Willy Ley The Coming of the Dinosaurs Few lay persons have occasion for any in-depth contemplation of jaws -- save maybe their own in connection with visitis to the dentist. But jaws are important when it comes to tracing evolutionary lines. Let us begin with our own, specifically the lower jaw and one side only since the left is the mirror image of the right. It consists of one bone which has an upward bend in the rear to form a hinge that connects it with the upper part of the skull. Since the teeth are attached to this bone it has the technical and logical name of "dentary." This construction is the ,same for all mammajs,whether 'the jaw is that of an ape, a cat, a dog or even that mythical jawbone of an ass with which Samson killed a large number of probably innocent people. If we now look at the jaw of areptile we find that matters are far more complicated. There is a dentary for the teeth but it is'iarrow, hence it is reenforced below by another bone which is called the "splenial." The combined dentary and splenial are joined in the back to a bone named the "surangular," which forms the hinge. But it, too, has its reenforcement, called the "angular." And at the back of the angular is still another bone, the "articular." Nobody stops anybody from thinking that this is patchwork but the setup described is found in all reptiles, living and extinct -- with, of course, the exceptions necessary to prove our point. These exceptions -- one could have guessed it -- occur in the Karroo fossils and provide us with our chance to check life's progression. In Seylacosaurus sky lax is Greek for 'puppy' ) the splenial is missing. Angular, surangular and articular are present and have nearly their normal sizes. But they have become superfluous because the dentary has not only grown heavy and strong -- it also has developed the hinge part. In Cynogmthus (from kyon, meaning dog and gmthos, meaning jaw) the three extra bones are markedly reduced. In Sesamodon, one of the last theriondons that survived into the Triassic period, they are missing. Sesamodon was a reptile in transition -- its nearly mammalian jaw shows the lines along which evolution was running then. Apparently there was a line running from these reptiles to the mammals but since any fossil is the result of several successive accidents -- first the animal must get into a situation where its remains can become fossil and then the fossil must be found -- we do not know all the stages that line had to pass through. At any event those reptiles that stayed reptiles -- one might call them confirmed in their species -- kept their complicated jaw construction to this day. But let us first discuss their period. Triassic means triple and with a good reason, the Triassic period has three clearly distinct subperiods. The oldest is usually referred to as "hunter" in English, n abbreviation of the German name which is Buntsandstein, meaning colorful sandstone. The middle one also has a German name; Muschelkalk from Muschel which means clam and Kalk which means limestone. The top layer of this triad is called Keuper which is an old miner's term for a certain kind of rock. The total duration of the Triassic period was from #-# periods share this duration more or less equally, though, if you go by the volume of fossils, the Muschelkalk period, consisting of marine sediments in Europe, seems to cdme out on top. Originally .it was believed that the Tethys Sea had simply widened to cover western Europe. In the light of later knowledge of continental drift the explanation is different. The lowlands were flooded by the Tethys from the south, but by a western projection of the later Indian Ocean. That the Muschelkalk Sea had been, shallow had been known aH along -- its fossils proclaimed the fact. IF Life in . the ocean and its branches that made inroads into the continents that began to crack up just then was variated. Practically everything one would expect to find in ocean was there, except for marine birds and mammals. The mammals that existed stayed on land, though they may have frequented rivers -- the birds still had to evolve from the reptiles. Therefore the lughest life forms in the seas were reptiles and the triassic forms shotted what was to come. The earliest known marine turtle was found in late triassic deposits and sinm chelys is Greek for turtle it was logically named Triassochelys. Though the fossil we have is from the late Triassic, marine turtles must have been around during the earlier subperiods (the oldest tortoise-like fossil was discovered in the Karroo). Another Triassic marine reptile was an early form of the ichthyosaurs that had the general shape of our porpoises. The first find of triassic ichthyosaurs was made on the island of Spitsbergen to the north of Scandinavia -- its name became Mixosaurus nordenkjoldi. Later somewhat earlier forms came to light in California. tile from the Triassic was not yet quite marine. It was a fairly large (about twenty feet from the tip of its snout to the tip of the tail) and massive saurian with a long neck, a big body and a medium-long tail. Its teeth show that it caught fish but its feet indicate that it was still a walker. We have to picture this animal, Nothosaurus andriani, as a shore-dwelling fishing type, probably able to wim but still a land animal. Nothosaurus, found in southeast Germany, had a close relative in Lariosaurus from northern Italy. Both show how the ancestors of the plesiosaurs were not directly ancestral to the plesiosaurs and seem to have died out around the end of the Triassic period. But we are not yet done with the marine life forms of the Triassic.  Among the fisfies all the later types were well represented, since the earliest of the modern fishes (with a bony skeleton) exist since the Devonian period. A find from the Devonian of Scotland has proved that representatives of the crossopterygians were present, that group of ancient fishes that became so well known because of one -- incidentally quite large -- form that was discovered to be still living in the waters around the Comores Islands to the north of Madagascar. That particular crossopterygian can now be found, under Latimeria, even in children's encyclopedias. One interesting point is that there were already flying fish during the Triassic peri. A fine specimen was recovered from late triassic deposits in Austria. Its name is Thoracopterus and though it seems to be an adult it is only four inches long. Quite probably Thoracopterus swam in schools like the flying fish of our time. Of course the older forms of fishes called elasmobranehs (the zoologist's collective designation of sharks, rays and chimeras) were present in the triassic seas since they originated during the Devonian and Carboniferous periods. However, one cannot say that they did not fossilize well. The lower life forms were present, too. At the top of the list are a few ammonites, shelled relatives of the octopi of our time and vaguely represented by the living nautilus. Whether unshelled octopi like the living forms already existed is not known -- in fact we do not know when they originated. The oldest known fossil is Palaeoctopus, found in Lebanon in layers that belong to the latest portion of the Cretaceous period. That all the kinds of echinoderms were present can be seen from the following tabulation; Middle Cambrian to present; asteroids (sea stars) from Up per Cambrian to present; echinoids (sea urchins) from Lower Silurian to present; holothurians (sea cucumbers) from Middle Cambrian to present. Since representatives of all these groups are still, alive there can be no doubt that they lived during the Triassic period, though fossils of some (especially sea stars) are rare. Turning to the land we can expect only three kinds of land vertebrates; amphibians, reptiles and mammals. The amphibians are subdivided into two groups which even the layman finds logical, namely tailed, amphibians (newts and salamanders) and tailless amphibians (frogs and toads.) All the amphibians from the Cambrian period to the end of the Triassic were tailed, and one (Lysorophus) could actually be called an early salamander. No fossils of tailless amphibians arc known from the Triassic; fossil frogs appear in late Jurassic deposits both in North America and in Spain, but nobody knows when they originated. We know considerably more about the reptiles of that period. In an area in western Germany known as the Eifel remains of a reptile were Tound that belongs to the same type as one still living under severe protection on some small islands near New Zealand. The living type is known as Hatteria or Sphenodon, the order to which it belongs is that bf the Rhynchocephalia and we know that the triassic form gave rise to a number of marine predators that probably ate mollusks. They also produced a crocodile-like form IF Champsosaums) that has been found in cretaceous deposits in North America. All the later forms are now extinct, whether still other post-triassic reptiles (also extinct by now) sprang from the rhynchocephalians is now doubtful, though the theory was widely accepted half a century ago. But triassic deposits contain remains of another early group of reptiles, called the pseudosuchians (pseudo-crocodiles, if you want) which was ancestral to many other reptiles as we shall see. The early pseudosuchians were small, looked generally like lizards and seem to have been tree-climbing. True crocodiles appear first in late Jurassic layers and, as in the case of the tailless amphibians, one may believe -- or not -- that they go back to late triassic times. that the first true dinosaur trod the land and it is certain that the pseudosuchians were their ancestors. Everybody knows that many dinosaurs walked on their hind legs only and although it seems logical to assume that the dinosaurs began their career as quadrupeds, two of the best known triassic dinosaurs had a bipedal locomotion. The inhabitants of certain areas of Connecticut were familiar with "bird tracks in stone" for decades before anybody said "dinosaurs" or talked of evolution. The Connecticut yankees could tell at a glance that some of these "birds" must have been quite large. At any event they did ot live there any more. Geologists could tell that the rocks with the "bird tracks" were triassic rocks and they suspected that the tracks were reptilian. But #t took a long time before the track makers became known, if not "in the flesh" at least "in the bone." The largest of them, somewhat bigger than the African ostrich, was Podokesaurus holyokensis. It had very small forefeet, long hindJegs with three-toed feet and a long tail. The European triassic dinosaur Plateosaurus longiceps was larger and more massive than the American form. Its head must have been about ten feet above the ground when the animal straightened up to look around. It had proportionally much larger forelegs than Podokesaurus and when feeding might have assumed a four-legged position as kangaroos can be seen to do. Plateosaurus has been found in deposits that clearly indicate that it lived in a desert area. It is probable that the specimens we have, all of them from a fairly small area, are the remains of individuals that perished while migrating from a dried-up water hole in search of another one. A few fossils from the Triassic of California prove the presence at that time of still another reptilian type called the Thalatto- sours thalatta is Greek for "sea"). They also seem to have been shore dwellers like the European Nothosaurus but were much smaller, the largest Californian thalattosaur was between six and seven feet long. It is likely that it belonged to the ancestral group of the monitor "lizards" of our time. The mammals of the Triassic remain to be' discussed -- unfortunately there is not much to say. The earliest mammals naturally must have had some reptilian traits. One could speculate that the mechanism that regulates the internal temperature of a mammal was not as efficient in the earliest mammals as it is in the late forms. One could also speculate that the earliest mammals still laid eggs like reptiles. But such speculations By The Falls perhaps, not stone, and smaller. And black as though it had been partially burned. Come look, there may be more." Bodum banged the pot as he rinsed it out in the sink. "What do your newspapers want to know about me? Over forty years here -- there are a lot of things I can tell you about." "What is up there above The Falls -- on top of the cliff? Do people live up there? Can there be a whole world up there of which we live in total ignorance?" are unnecessary, it so happens that two types of the earliest mammals are still alive in Australia. Named platypus and echidna they show very nicely how the earliest mammals were built. Their blood temperature varies over a range that humans could hardly survive. And they do lay eggs. As if to display early versatility, echidna is a dry land animal while platypus lives, beaverlike, in fresh water. Both are about a foot in length, the actual early mammals, as the rare fossils show, were much smaller, about the size-of a mouse. We can guess that virtually all of the early mammals were insect eaters; plants bearing small seeds did not yet exist as far as we know. The mammals had to wait for a fore they came into their own. # ( continued from page # Bodum hesitated, frowned in thought before he answered. "I believe they have dogs up there." "Yes," Carter answered, hammering his fist on the window ledge, not knowing whether to smile or cry. The water fell by; the floor and walls shook with the power of it. "There- -- more and more things going by." He spoke quietly, to himself. v"I can't tell what they are. That -- that could haveibeen a tree and that a bit of fence. The IF smaller ones may be bodies -- animals, logs, anything, lliere is a different world above The Falls and in that world something terrible is happening. And we don't even know about it. We don't even know that world is there." He struck again and again on the stone until his fist hurt. The sun shone on the water and he saw the change, just here and there at first, an altering and shifting. "Why -- the water seems to be changing ' color. Pink it is -- no, red. More and more of it. There, for an instant, it was all red. The color of blood." He spun about to face the dim ro#m and tried to smile but his lips were drawn back hard from his teeth when he did . "Blood? Impossible. There can't be that much blood in the whole world. What is happening up there? What is happening?" His scream, did not disturb Bodum, who only nodded his head in agreement. "I'll show you something," he said. "But only if you promise not to write about it. , People might laugh at me. I've been here over forty years and that is nothing to laugh about." "My word of honor, not a word. Just show me. Perhaps it has something to do with what is happening." Bodum took down a heavy bible and opened it on the table next to the lamp. It was set in very black type, serious and impressive. He turned pages until he came to a piece of very ordinary paper. "I found this on the shore. During the winter. No one had been here for months. It may have come #ver The Falls. Now I'm not saying it did -- but is is possible. You will agree it is possible?" "Oh, yes -- quite possible. How else could it have come here? Carter reached out and touched it. "I agree, ordinary paper. Torn on one edge, wrinkled where it was. wet and then dried." He turned it over. ' "There is lettering on the other side." "Yes. But it is meaningless. It is no word I know." "Nor I, and I speak four languages. Could it have a meaning?" "Impossible. A word like that." "No human language." He shaped his lips and spoke the letters aloud. "Aich -- Eee -- Ell -- Pea." Bodum shouted, louder than ever. "A child scribbled' it. Meaningless." He seized the paper and crumpled it and threw it into the fire. "You'll want to write a story about me," he said proudly. "I have been here over forty years, arid if there is one man in the entire world who is an authority on The Falls it is me. "I know everything that there is to know abqut them." # Diary Found in the St. Louis Zoo (continued from page #) for us and even more for the house detective. Leigh Couch registered us at the Convention desk and did the job so graciously that I stifled my initial impulse to ask the obvious question -- Mrs. Cduch, if you were widowed in India, would you commit settee? Actually, there was no time for questions. The fans were already pouring into the lobby and the bartenders were already pouring out at the bar. That, of course, is the real thrill of convention attendance -- within the space of a few minutes you meet more fans than you can shake a stick at. I know, because I tried. Soon a group assembled fbr dinner in the Hunt Room (so named because if you want a waitress you've got to hunt for her) and the nose-count included Philip Jose' Farmer, Bette Farmer, Samuel D. Russell, Florence Russell, David and Ruth Kyle, Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Don Bensen, my wife and myself. A total of eleven noses in all -- there was one little fellow, whose face I never saw. Only his nose was visible above the table top, so naturally he couldn't eat a meal. He just sniffed some airplane glue for dessert. After dinner various noses got on the scent of room parties but we decided to retire early and rest for what lies ahead. And after looking over the list of speakers on the program I expect plenty of lies ahead. Our room seems very nice but lacks closet space. Also there's no lock on the door and people keep coming in and out. From the way they all talk about "up" or "down" I suspect they must be on drugs. I may have to letter IF Aug. D ear diary: Every eatery in this hotel has a name. I had breakfast in the. Tack Room. Couldn't figure out why they called it that until I sat down in my seat. v I got the point. I breakfasted alone -- for about ten seconds. Then I was joined was followed by one Johnson and two del Reys (Evelyn and Lester), plus James Gunn, Gordon DickRocklynne. From the way the mob was surging in as I left, I gather this wilLbe a big affair. Out in the lobby I encountered two of my very favorite people -- Lee Hoffman, Bea Mahaffey and Bob Tucker (think about it). Lee, who has been writing science fiction and westerns, has just sold a book to the movies. Bea, formerly editor of Other Worlds (not to be confused with Udder Worlds, the Dairy Magazine) hasn't attended a Worldcon for some time and commented on the magnitude of this one. Bob Tucker, whom I studiously 'ignored, managed to steal my identification badge and exchange it for his own. I didn't realize our badges were switched until a" group of fans came up and asked for my autograph. Then they began stoning Tucker -- a superfluous gesture, since he was already stoned. The Convention was to open at #I A. M., so we made our way through the halls to the main auditorium. En route I had the Eddie Jones, the British artist who was brought over as a guest by the Transatlantic Fan Fund. This is the "voluntary subscription which sends an American fan to Europe one year and a European fan to the United States the next, as a guest of the Convention. I could explain how this is done, by nomination and popular vote, but I've already loused it up by neglecting to mention that in past years there was also a winner from Japan. Sufficc to say that Mr. Jones was inand also the Fan Guest of Honor at the Convention -- and to judge from our meeting, he is going to fill both roles admirably. Walking toward the auditorium I notfcd the huge Huskster Room -- where books, magazines, artwork and manuscripts are displayed for sale to collectors. Emerging from it I spotted Sam Moskowitz (science-fktion's real answer to Tiny Tim), Alexei Panshin and Dr. C.L. Barrett. Doc, the longtime doyen of the annual Midwescons, was as genial as ever. Hoping to get some medical opinion, I informed him that I thought I was losing my voice. He reacted with great alarm but when I repeated my symptoms he laughed. "Losing your voice?" he echoed with obvious relief. "Had me worried for a moment. I thought you sai(f 'vice?" But I did go and get a prescription. Not that anyone ata Convention really needs a voice, with Harlan Ellison around. The opening session of the Convention came off as scheduled, complete with introductions of various attendees. Sure enough, when my name was called. Bob Tucker stood up. When Tucker's name was called, I stood up. This baffled a lot of people; apparently because they didn't think either of us could stand up. Bob Silverberg and Dick Lupoff delivered masterful speeches. Somewhere between syllables I found myself walking Hospitality Room to the Press Room, where .Chelsea Quinn Yarbro held sway. She sways very prettily. Terry Carr, Ben Bova and Hal Clement continued the Convention program -- come to think of it, they preceded Dick Lupoff -- but I opted for lunch. Other opters who opterated at my table were Jay Kay Klein (who vows he'll shoot # pictures at this Convention), Bob Pavlat, Mary Young, John and Bjo Trimble. Bjo and Bruce Pelz are handling the Art show, upstairs and I promised to look in on it. Every attendee has been presented with a handsome portT# IF folio of Jack Gaughan drawings -- once you see it you realize why he was chosen Guest of 'Honor. And there's, more of his art upstairs, along with the work of a score of other pros and fans. Somewhere along the line I visited with my wife (whom I affectionately call Mrs. Bloch) and then it was time to get down to the outdoor swimming pool for the Poolside Party. Here each of the pros was presented with a plastic, straw hat decorated with a red-white-and-blue band. The idea was to wear this headgear so that fans could identify their victims. I did a little identifying myself -- of both fans and pros -- and encountered Andy Offut, Ben Solon, Anne McCaffrey, Jim Warren, John Millard, Linda Stanley, Jack Chalker, Dan Galouye and his charming family, etc. Meanwhile, of course. Bob Tucker was busily signing my name in autographbooks, and just to make it look authentic, I was busily signing his name on various portions of feminine anatomy. And everyone was thordughly confused. Ray and Joyce Fisher, co-chairmen of this Convention, joined fellow committee members in dispensing cotton candy, soft drinks and music from a genuine calliope -- an old fashioned instrument which' baffled younger attendees; even the name itself was unfamiliar to them, except for the last syllable. But as the music blasted away I talked to Joe Haldeman, Ben Bova, Harry Harrison, Ed Meskys, Fred Prophet, Verne Corriel, Larry Niven, Leigh Brackett, Edmond Hamilton, Harlan Ellison and -- according to the name I put down in my notes -- somebody named Sundry Others. Because we were standing around for so long a time, I began to lean on several of these people, but never on Sundry. The editor of this magazine and his gracious spouse hosted a dinner-party in yet another hotel eatery, together with Judy-Lynn Benjamin. We joined them and the Sifverbergs, Clifford D...Simak, Doh Bensen, the Russells, and part of the large Budrys family -- Algis and Mrs., to be exact. A pleasant gathering. In case anyone wants to know what the "dirty pros" talk about in these mysterious conclaves, I jotted down a fragment of table conversation. The subject then was the prevalence of drug-addiction among the young. Budrys: Everybody's turned on! Why, half of the bike races in this country are won on grass. Barbara Silverberg: Oh -- I thought they used paved roads. Alan Nourse, M.D., hosted an evening gathering for Science Fiction Writers of America in a jokefilled room. I sneaked out of there to attend a First Fandom Aug. #tl. back at breakfast, listening to Anne McAffrey, Gene Wolf and Chelsea Quinn Yarbro. Then on to the Art Show, with Forry and Wendayne Ackerman. Met Jack Gaughan, who is a most defightful person. His wife and his mother are justly proud of his Convention honors. The Art Show is quite impressive -- and so are the artwork prices. Writers don't command such money. Now I know what they mean when they say, "One picture is worth a thousand words." Star Trek may have been canceled, but the artists don't seem . to know it. I counted # portraits of Leonard Nimoy -- an eary sight meeting in Lou Tabakow's suite, indeed. Also (believe it or not -- where Walt Liebscher gave a and I "prefer not), a Mr. 'Spock speech entirely in spoonerisms doll! and a Gene Roddenberry . and Bob Madle and Dave Kyle doll! I shudder to think what talked in a somewhat less commight happen if Harlan Ellison prehensible fashion. Herb Carlson buys the latter and sticks pins in had clued me in that a program it. of movies was starting at one In the Convention Hall (which, A.M., scheduled to last all night. I discover, is called the Khorassan Not being scheduled to last all Room) they voted on the site of night myself, I retired. the next convention. The # There's a bulletin board in the Worldcon will be held abroad, so Chase Lounge. On it some wag this group voted for the #I lohas posted a notice: cation in the United States. The winner. I'm told, is Boston. This IF Asimov, who can now attend by spending #c for bus fare. Isaac, despite his championship of mod ern science, refuses to fly. He's going to be the only angel in Heaven with a subway ticket. Boston has selected Clifford D. Simak as Pro Guest of Honor and Harry Warner, Jr. as Fan Guest of Honor. Two excellent choiss -- both have contributed so very much to science fiction through the years. The annual Burroughs Bibliophile Dum-Dum was held this noon. The Burroughs Bibliophiles are fans of Edgar Rice Burroughs and the Dum-Dum is a luncheon, not just an expression popularized on LaughIn. While this took place I visited with L. Sprague de Camp, Marion Zimmer Bradley and longtime fan J. Vernon Shea, with whom I'yc corresponded since the days when both of us were part of the old "Lovecraft circle." Vernon and I circulated and picked up a few tidbits of information. It seems there's been the usual lack of meaningful dialogue between the hotel management and the wayout segments of fandom, resulting in a credibility gap which almost escalated into open warfare. A victim of descent rather than escalation was Ruth Kyle, who last night was plunged by elevator into the hotel basement and somehow got locked in there for a time. Since the purpose of her trip was merely to get some milk for her kids, this came as an added bonus. During the auction session in the afternoon I had a late lunch with some of the German fans, who are over here hoping to capture the # Worldcon for Heidelberg. Mike Bradley joined me. Meanwhile,' back at the auction, Ellison and Silverberg were sold to the highest bidders. This I can well believe, since anyone who bid on those two would have to be pretty high. llien on to Room # where Vonda McIntyre hosted a party. It's her birthday, and among her guests I spott Jack Gaughan, the editor of this magazine. Chuck and Sally Crayne, Poul and Karen Anderson, Oliver Saari and Dale Tarr. Most of them were spotted when I spilled my drink. We had dinner, and somewhere, in the lobby I spoke to Andy Porter, Anna Wilson and Elliot Shorter (who is really taller). Time now for the Masquerade Ball. Prior to it, my wife met Bob Tucker's wife -- an occasion for long and mutual commiseration. The Masquerade, a Worldcon tradition, produced eighty-six costumed competitors for prizes. After repeated parading and judging, the winners (according to my garbled-as-usual jottings) were: Karen and Astrid Anderson as "The Bat and the Bitten" (Most pUiso. Popular Award)', Ron Bounds as "Ottar" in full barbarian regalia; Bruce Pelz as . "Gertrude From Gormenghast" Grand Award)', University of Chicago group Best Group Award); Bertram B. Parker and Lawrence Ropp as "Caliban And Prospero" Most Beautiful Award); other winners in various categories included Eric John Stark, Lori Canellen, John Kritzberg, Alan Nourse, Anne E. Trimbley; Lin and Noel Carter, with Lin as "Ming the Merciless" and Rick Norwood as "Charlie Brown" -- Most Humorous Award. If I've misspelled names, omitted winners and left out categories it's largely because of the lastmentioned award. Carried away by histrionic zeal, the portrayer of Charlie Brown stumbled against a large rented screen behind the promenade platform and gouged a sizable dent in one corner. Ellison called for volunteer offerings to pay for damages and various conventioneers passed through the crowd and returned with approximately # in a matter of moments. Dazed by the realization that at one time the entire attendance at a Worldcon couldn't raise such a sum if everyone emptied his pockets completely, I missed some of. the proceedings. All I could think of was a way of luring Ellison into a quick crap game. But more of that later. Bruce Pelz's performance as "Gertrude of Gormenghast" was outstanding -- he soliloquized to a bird, in what I presume was Pidgin English-and while Bruce's real sex was never in doubt, the bird's was artfully concealed. But the "Bat and the Beautiful" ' presentation lingers longest in my memory, for personal reasons. Karen Anderson, as a black-cloaked vampire, menaced her white-cloaked daughter .in a weird pantomime which culminated in raising her arms, transforming the cloak into gigantic outspread bat-wings, enfolding her victim and drinking her blood. Lest this activity be doubted, Karen buried her mouth In her daughter's neck and then raised it to display her ensanguined lips, together with IF gore which spattered the victim's white attire. I know how this effect was obtained but have sworn silence;, sufficient to that it was a stunning piece of Grand Guignol. And when Karen flitted off the platform she at once swooped down on me and bestow a vampiristic kiss which left my own mouth bloody. So go report on Masquerade winners when you've just been bitten by a vampire! I suppose next year a werewolf will sbed on me. Aug. #I you heard last night after the Masquerade was a Rock Group. You heard it. I was in bed with ear plugs. After breakfasting with my wife and assorted characters, I participated in a panel discussion on Ho Sawed Courtney'  Boat? with Lee Hoffman and Bob Tucker. Once the boat was sunk I got in on the latter portion of the Science Fiction Writers of America Meeting. Back in the auditorium, I joined the Gauan family to listen to various symposia on science fiction through the decades -- including a nostalgic panel discussion by Leiber, del Rey, Simak and other notables. T. L. Sherred, Alexei Panshin and Harry Harrison followed. And then Ellison came on to deliver a summation speech which was in effect a challenge to the Establishment to recognize the pioneering vision of science fiction. A few words with Chuck Hansen, then the auction -- but now it was time for me to slip out to the nearest Chinese restaurant, kill a waiter and stl his tuxedo for the Awards Banquet. I'm told # people registered as Convention memberand that dees. I can well believe it, Tor there seemed to be that many present at the banquet. My wife and I were seated at the head table. At first I considered this quite an honor. Then I ran into ah old Navy man and he told me what "head" meant. But there we were, along with various members of the Convention Committee-some of whom were sitting down for the first time in four days, after their hectic labors -- plus the Guests of Honor and Toastmaster Ellison. In the course of his humorous remarks, Ellison reported on last night's fund-raising campaign for the repair of the damaged screen and told the audience that any amount over and above the actual sum required to restore the screen itself would be donated to the Clarion College Workshop for its science fiction program. The audience reaction to this announcement was -- to put it bluntly -- somewhat negative. For a moment it appeared that an additional amount would have to be raised to pay for the cost of Ellison's hospitalization and funeral. But good humor was restored and the show went on. Forrest Ackerman presented the E.E. Evans Memorial Awarda First Fjandom Award was posthumously presented to Wijly Ley. Fan Guest of Honor Eddie Jones delivered a well-received speech and Pro Guest of Honor Jack Gaughan was eloquent. Now nerves and bladders tightened as the time drew near to announce the winners of the annual Hugo Awards, the top honors bestowed by vote in the science-fiction field. I'm pretty sure who won these particular awards, because I announced them and presented them to the recipients or those accepting for the absentees. Herewith, the Hugo Award winners for #: Best Fan Writer -- Harry Warner, Jr. Best Fan Magazine -- Psychotic Science Fiction Review, edited by Richard Geis. Btst Fan Artist -- Vaughn Bode. Best Professional Artist -- Jack Gaughan. Best Professional Magazine -- Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction (I can't help it, Judy-Lynn; I gotta tell it like it is). Best Dramatic Presentation'll: A Space Odyssey, written by Arthur C. Clarke. Best Short Story -- The Beast That Shouted Love At The Heart Of The World, by Harlan Ellison. Best Novelette -- The Sharing Of Flesh, by Poul Anderson. Best Novella -- NightWings, by Robert Silverberg. Best Novel -- Stand On ZanziJ)ar, by John Brunner. Then it was party time. I have vague memories of meeting collector Darrell Richardson, author Richard Wilson, Evelyn Barrett, and Rich Wannen. Twenty-seven of the people I insulted during my banquet remarks chased me wn the hall.And the next thing I knew, it was -- Sept, h D ear diary: No more meetings for me! Breakfast with George Clayton Johnson and assorted pros. R. A. Lafferty and Roy Lavender kindly, informed me that a business Session voted to change the name of the Convention, starting in #, to the North American Science Fiction Convention -- covering all future Conventions held in the area bounded by Canada on the north, Panama on the South, the West Indies on th.e east (that's somewhat confusing) and, I suppose, the East Indies oh the west. It being hye days since I've been out of this hotel, I felt it only natural to do a little comparison shopping and see how the rest of the world stacks tip alongside of the Convention cosmos. With that in mind I wandered across the street, through the park and into the St. Louis Zoo. Verdict: it's less crowded there, less noisy but it smells worse. Back to lunch with the Kyles, Poul Anderson, Jock Root, RustyHevelin, et. al. An afternoon of visiting -- the Art Show again, the Huckster's Room, the bar. I had a chat with Sid Coleman, longtime fan, and discussed the continuing hassle with hotel personnel who turned away people with valid reservations, reportedly upped ra!tes and closed public rooms which were to have remained open all night for the benefit of various insomniacs and outsomniacs who wanted to Do Their Thing. I know how diligently the Convention Committee has labored to preserve harmony but with such a large attendance the problems multiply. I still feel future Conventions must employ some professional organization to assist in preparations, just as business and fraternal convention groups do. But that's an old story. A newer story, Dear Diary, is our dinner with Larry Niven and Marilyn, his bride-to-be -- a quiet, pleasant evening interlude at a little restaurant down the street. My wife and I shared with them the inevitable nostalgia which seems a prelude to the final day of every Worldcon. You've seen so many people, so many friends, and now you realize that in a few hours they'll be scattered to the four winds. Sept. #. short and sweet. Breakfast with Karen Anderson, Joyce Muskat and a dozen other passersby. most of whom halted to say farewell before proceeding to the checkout desk with their stolen towels and ashtrays. It's hard to accept the fact that it's really over; that upwards of # people gathered here, from all over the world, just to listen to speeches and participate in panel discussions, to see films and artwork, purchase manuscripts and printed matter at auctions, applaud award-winners, enjoy a banquet and masquerade and poolside party, attend private parties of their own -- and all in the name of a unique hobby. It's even harder to believe that next year they're going to do it all over again -- in Heidelberg. Yes, Heidelberg did win the Convention bid for # and plans are to hold the gathering in an authentic German castle. Wunderbar! But you won't be there. Dear Diary. In just a few moments. Dear Diary, I am returning to the St. Louis Zoo. And this time you go with me. It is my intention to drop you into the pit at the Reptile House and let the alligator swallow you. T he wheel turns, apparently at the rate of once a generation. I can remember subscribing to a raft of magazines that dealt mostly with series characters, such as Doc Savage or the Shadow. Such series books were a market must at one time. And before them had been the books that were obviously ended in such a way that the reader would demand a sequel -- such were the first Tarzan and John Carter books. Then all that passed into limbo. Publishers put their ears to the ground and heard a great stampede away from all such old-fashioned nonsense. With the acumen that has always distinguished such groups, who listen mostly to each other, they realized that sequels and serials finally were out. Now a bit more than thirty years later, it seems that another group of publishers has discovered a magic new way to capture readers -- with series stories and novels that demand sequels. Plus ca change... One of the current series that looks least promising turns out to be almost good and certainly worth a look by anyone who likes fantasy of the weird sort. The Haunting of Alan Mais, by Peter Saxon (Berkley Medallion Books, #d:), is listed as ## of The Guardians. This is obviously an American edition of an English series and the order of appearance here seems to be somewhat mixed up, if there is any order. The writing is surprising for this type of book. It's literate and even deliberate at times, not at all like the hack style where events mean far more than their description. The characters of the Guardians -- a group formed to fight occult evil for a fee rather than because they're good guys -- are not always sharp but they are a lot more real than might be expected. Most of their past is hinted at but obviously must wait for many books for full development. Generally, it's a rather good weird story. But at the end we're left with problems which remind us that we're mixed up in a series. The haunt may be settled but the effects on the girl linger on. And some of those effects are rather startling, demanding an answer if she's to continue as part of this evil-fighting group. And there are a lot of other questions about the rest of the company that need attention. If you like weird stories and are pear and try to straighten out the order in your head as you go along, these books are worth their price. Maybe the confusion adds to the fun. This One through leaves. Passons passons puisque tout passe, je me retournerai souvent. He had once told her that -- years ago, in one of the many dead languages of Earth -- that memory is a hunting horn, it dies along the wind. His hair has grayed and gotten thin. His face has begun to relax in brown folds around his eyes and mouth. Her delicate features remain, only now the bones show more surely under the skin, turning darker, like the night's cobalt, and her hair is the earth-color of leaves before they fall. It's a simple story, written in the land of these hills. Listen (continued from page #) closely -- the wind whispers an old song. And you can know in a few words who they are: lovers of a still place, of the bird that swings its wing in the wind above the trees; movers through time and fury to this quiet conclusion, so near and strange. Now the bird turns and starts across the water. Over the still red lake its wings are full of darkness. So sing with her songs: epithalamium. The sun s their morning star.  IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with aU of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art. Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Lei Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. #-I from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. #S#pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and danmed before it was even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-#A the Planet of the Flowers, Dr. Freda Caron's fiance Paul has sent her an exquisite iridescent yellow tulip that not only has a plastic memory -- but can talk. Freda realizes that she must unlock the secrets of the flower planet and its strange hold on Paul. In this exciting new book, Freda must travel from her ultra-rational world-oftomorrow to explore the strange, unearthly flower planet. The climax of this shocking and oddly beautiful novel is bizarre and delightful. # pp. List Price...# Discount Price... # an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich must make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-S W. Aldias. Collected for the first time... the best SF stories of #... Asimov, Sheckley, MacDonald, Leiber...plus # other exciting stories... and, year, #: A Space Odyssey. This rich anthology of the year's most exciting stories from the best SF bookshelf. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# C. M. Kornbluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets. will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests, The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# Heinlein't Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessary sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi# pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Office, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name  address I have circled. S-I S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# S-# Name Address City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Key, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: For Your In formation -- Willy Ley, Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IP's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room, controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and "where the editors, writers and artists blast back. #  Y The Space Age Science  by Joseph F. Goodavaee. V Is youT life controlled by ' 'cosmic tides" that flow from the stars? Famed astrologer , says "yes!" and predicts j  what will happen in  the next # years, y Ed. Sd.M An insurance company uses astrology to predict how long its customers will live An airline is seriously considering use of comp to predict dangers of a flight -- astrologically A giant earthquake is predicted between now ar that will radically change life on earth The Universe Book Club invites you to take Any # books  only when you join now and agree to accept only # books during the coming year Including, if you wish The Space Age Science tied Sechrist. How to interpret your own dreams in the same way Edgar Cayce "read" thousands for clues to happier life. Pub. ed. SS.#. gomery. Author claims "reincarnation" is shaping livesof famous Americansand offers proof of her theory. Pub. ed. # Hugh Cayce. Son of Edgar Cayce describes his father's "methods." Reveals how to develop your own psychic powers! Pub. ed. # Strange events that defied every law of science -- yet tlWy happened! A shocker! Pub. ed. #. Practicing witch unmasks the mysteries of sorcery, ghost-hunting, voodoo curses. Put. ed. #. minara. Startling report shows how your love life may be predestined -- through reincarnation. Pub. ed. # ET. Jess Stearp Why Case histories of America's greatest Weeping Madonnas, mystic predicts dedemons, vampires, struction of N. t., the mental telepathy, "livWest Coast, by #. mg machines." Pub. Pub. ed. # ed. # IN. Gina Cerminara. lab. L. Rhine. Will phenomenon fiction? Author offers (mind over matter) new scientific evidence prove even more powas proof you will be reerful than the H bomb? born. Pub. ed. # Pub. ed. # son. Covers everything and Yoga. Pub. ed. # man. How to make the right day-to-day decisions about love, travel, health, business by using the science of numbers. Pub. ed. # #. Linda Goodman's really understand and predict the desires and actions of your mate, lover, child, boss, employees through astrology! Pub. ed. # gan. Famed mystic's "time-table" of events for #'s: a cure for cancer... war with China! Pub. ed. # by John Blofeld. The book that inspired Confucious! New transla tion unlocks ancient Chinese secrets to help you see into future ! Pub. ed. # tions that need answers today. A club that offers books which challenge you to explore the frontiers of human experience. natural, reincarnation, yoga, hypnosis, the black arts. Take only the books you want -- as few as # books in the coming year. Resign any time after that. Mail the coupon now to receive any # books on this page for only #, ""caVlndiSwSS: shipping and handling. Send no craft. Black Mass, money. Universe Book Club, Garden Devil Worship, voodoo. XT V IKin human sacrifice as City, N.Y. #U Please accept my applicatiori for membership in the numbers I have circled below. Bill me # plus shipping and handling for all # volumes. New selections wMl be described in advance. A convenient form will always be provided on which I may refuse selections I do not want. I pay only #, plus shipping and handling, for each selection I accept (unless I take an extra-value selection). I need take only # books in the coming year, and may resign any time after that. with introductory shipment, I may return it In # days to cancel membership. .U# Mr. Mrs. (print) Citv State Zin Credit Reference (Your telephone number, bank or department store where you have a charge account is sufficient.) Members accepted in Continental U.S.A. and Canada only.  r  iy zme Do you have a restless urge to write? If you do, here is an opportunity for you to take the first Bennett Gerf, the distinguished important step to success in writing Stotti? FacuT y b of of the Famous Writers School. There's something different about people who feel the urge to write. They have a spiritual hunger that sets them apart -- even from family and friends. If you have known this burning need to write, you, too, may have the gift successful authors possess. They know that this restless urge for self-expression is perhaps the most important ingredient of writing success. But, they realize it can waste away if you don't know how to get started writing, or if you hesitate to try. Several years ago a group of famous authors including Rod Serling, Faith Baldwin, Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, and several others joined forces to start the Famous Writers School. They poured everything they know about writing into a remarkable new kind of professional training course which trains you at home in your spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing. Then you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice. Each of your assignments is examined by an instructor who is a professional writer or editor. He goes over your work word by word, blue-penciling changes right on your manuscript. Then he returns it to you with a long letter of advice on how to improve your writing. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to hundreds of publications. Free Aptitude Test offered To find out if you, too, have writing ability worth developing, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing aptitude -- you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. i ! Famous Writers School  Dept. W-#  Westport Connecticut #  I want to know if I have writing aptitude I worth developing. Please mail me, I without obligation, your Aptitude Test  and illustrated brochure. ! Mr. I Mrs Age J Miss Circle one please print j Street I J City i I State Zip J Accredited by the Accrediting Commission l of the National Home Study Council. # February, # Vel. #, No. # Is two # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Frodorik Pohl, Editor Emeritus Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Lester del key. Feature Editor L. C. Murphy, Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N Y. #. #r per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright c # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. One of the most frustrating contender for the Hugo this past things about reviewing books is the year, as well as by those who seem time lag between the publication to regard Kurt Vonnegut as Amerreviewer is presented with an adIt is, in many ways, a richer examvance copy -- and getting the review pie of Lafferty's work than his preon the newsstands. Few publishers vious book and should be doubly have tried to solve the problem. rewarding to his fans. I must conTerry Carr, the enterprising edfess, however, that I'm not one of itor of the Ace Specials, is a welthem and that this is not a book to come exception. He has been subconvert me. In fact, only a sense of mitting page proofs of forthcomobligation kept me reading beyond ing books due to appear several the first thirty turgid pages, months later. This is doubly welThe basic idea of the novel is come, since the Specials have inthat various mysterious groups are eluded several outstanding books trying to dominate the world and and the series deserves careful atthat a tremendous hidden struggle tention. for power is going on. One small In this case, the novel for Degroup has developed the ability to cember release is Fourth Man pool its members' psychic powers sions, by R.A. Lafferty (Ace Speinto a unified, brain-weaving net cial, #c). It's a novel that will of force that can influence others probably be greeted with enthusiand even affect seismographs. Anasm by the Lafferty fans, who other, more ancient group, has the made his Past Master a serious (Please turn to page #) ese great minds were Rosimcians Why were these men great ? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. San Jose, California #, U.S. A. Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. copy of "The Mastery of Life" -- ligation; A nonprofit organization. Address : Scribe E.R.A. Deeper and more dangerous than the seas of Jupiter -- was the human mind! above us as cold and gray. Lots of I turbulence. The first men inside Jupiter. T AM the ship. We've got the lumps to show for We're cruising just under the it. Took a helluva beating getting cloud deck. The wind velocity outthrough the clouds. The scientists side is still brutal, gusty. Makes must have been scared. So was I us buck and shudder like a glider on that one jolt. It hurt, in a thunderhead. My infrared It's snowing like hell all around eyes see the ammonia clouds us. I can barely see the second cloud layer below. It' looks vaguely pinkish, warm. They're supposed to be water clouds, ice crystals. And below that? Intelligent life? The people who built the machinery on Titan? The captain is asleep. I am the ' ship. All alone except for the computer and this recorder I'm mumbling into. The scientists are plugged into their special instruments, each in his own narrow cubicle. But I am the ship. Plugged in completely. The engines are my heartbeat. The computer flashes information into my eyes and talks right into my brain. The recorder takes down this subvocal chatter for the ship's log, I see outward with infrared or sonar or any of the other sensors. And inward with the intercom cameras. I'm in touch with every piece #f machinery, every electrical circuit, every transducer and sensor. They all plug in to me. Me. The human me. I can see myself: a six-foot-tall Caucasian floating in a contour couch like an enlarged fetus, naked and depilitated. Gills flapping softly. Body bobbing gently in the currents that surge through the heavy saline solution we live in. Face mostly hidden behind sensory connectors and communications unit. Cranial, connectors pressed against bald skull like a yamulka. Hands and feet enclosed in more sensory connectors and control units. A semi-mechanical fetus. breathing liquid with man-made gills. A part-time cyborg. Robert Donovan O'Banion, youngest full commander in what used to be the United States Navy. Now we're all brothers, of course. No more, national armed 'forces. The buildings on Titan ended that. We're all lined up shoulder to shoulder to face the Threat From Space. Like-hell.  I don't know why they used my voice for the computer's vocal output. The captain laughs about it -- says it's like I'm talking to myself. At least they didn't try to build a personality into the computer. Having four scientists aboard is enough personality for any mission. What's Ling saying? "They are definitely biological. Look at the readouts yourself." is sitting on the edge of his couch. It's cranked up to a sitting position and swiyeled to his workbench. He's flashing the readout from one of his instruments over the intercom. The spectrophotometer, looks like. It shows a list of numbers. The recorder will read it off for the data file and the log. The other three scientists are makIF tag professional grunts and mumbles. "Hydrocarbons mostly," Ling goes on. "But notice, please, lines fourteen and thirty-seven -- leucine and tyrosine. Amino acids." Ling is trying to maintain his Chinese cool but he sounds excited. Just for kicks, let's check his medical monitor. Yes -- heart rate is up. "Amino add molecules," Bromley says flatly from his cubicle. "We're in the midst of a biological blizzard." That's no surprise. The unmanned probes discovered the biological "snow" falling from the top cloud deck. Sunlight and lightning propel biochemical reactions in the clouds -- amino adds and other gunk predpitates out. It's what happens to the stuff underneath the clouds that we're supposed to investigate. It's ashame Ling's depilitated. He'd look better with a stringy mustache. The complete Chinese sage. Head too big for his skinny body. Bromley's just the opposite: soft and round. I swear he ? s bloating. He looks spongier every time I check on Him. He can't be gaining weight on what we get for nutrients. Ludongo is hunched over his instruments, running tests on the gas samples we've sucked in. Doc Speer is clinging to his couch; hasn't said a word since that first joIt  up in the clouds. Youngest man aboard. Hope to Christ we don't have 'a medical emergency. He would be useless. The computer flashes the words before my eyes as well as saying them to me. Okay, sweep the radio frequendes. Nothing is getting past the nerve-sizzling interference. The electrical storms make radio virtually useless. Try the laser again. Won't go through the clouds. All right, end communication check. We're cut off from the orbiting ships, completely shut away from the rest of the human race. Not even the starships are as lonely. The computer is flashing data to me. Images flicker in my eyes as fast as my brain can take in the information -- propulsion system, electrical power, life support, structural integrity -- numbers, bar charts, symbols, graphs, curves. Outside pressure is up to ten. atmospheres. And we've just started. When do we enter the second cloud deck? Below that deck is the ocean, where the pressure starts at a ton per square centimeter. Then we'll see how good a ship we are. Were those sonar pictures from the unmanned probes really showing animals? As big as icebergs? Ling's cubicle. They're comparing notes. Ludongo has finished his atmospheric analysis, looks like. Ling is working on the biochemistry of the snowflakes. Bromley's getting off his tail and joining them. Ling is saying,"It's amazing how similar the biochemistry is to the terrestrial pattern." Bromley floats in and grabs a handhold. The cubicle is barely big enough for the three of them. Ludongo nods hello and drifts behind Ling's couch to the' corner where the medical monitoring console stands. Maybe I ought to make them stay in their own cubicles and chat over the intercom. Avoid injury if we hit more turbulence. Check the outside infrared. Give me a course plot and turbulence prediction. Okay. Let them float around for a while. The bulkheads are padded. Alert me if any sign of turbulence shows up. My God, Speer's getting up. Is he finally getting a little courage or is he scared of being left alone? Show. me. Flickering light. Gone now. No, there's another. Give me max magnification. It must be a lightning storm. Distance? Hell! Looks pretty dim but infrared wouldn't pick up much of a lightning bolt, would it? No ideas at all for estimating the dis tance? Listen for the boom, yeah. We used to do that when I was a kid, gauge the distance to a thunderstorm that way. Turn on the outside mikes and filter out the boundary layer noise. What's the speed of sound out there? But I don't hear anything. No boom. Shock waves must be damping out. What's the dampirig function for this atmosphere? Great. Now do I let them stand around and jabber or do I send them back to their couches? ' J IF Inside view. Speer is bobbing softly in the passageway just outside Ling's compartment, one hand on the open hatch. The other crewmen are jammed inside. Ling is saying, "If this biological snow is falling all across the planet -- what happens to it in the second cloud layer? And in the ocean?" "Torn to shreds, I should imagine," says Bromley. "Those are not the warm, gentle seas of Earth down there, you realize. They're no doubt highly corrosive, laced with plenty of ammonia and God knows what else. Long-chain molecules simply wouldn't stand a chance in that ocean." Ludongo looks like he s fed up with Bromley's, pompousness but Ling simply smiles like a cat. "Indeed?" Ling asks softly. "But what of the sonar pictures that the probes returned? What are tose huge objects floating in the ocean?" "Icebergs, rocks, mountains torn loose from the surface below -- " "So? Warmer than the ambient seas around them?" Bromley looks uncomfortable. "I'll admit that there's a good deal we have to learn. But one shouldn't jump to conclusions. Whoever built those machines on Titan certainly did not come from Jupiter -- or from Saturn, for that matter. Any fool could've told the politicians that. It's so obvious." Ludongo's father is a politician. He says, "Yes, of course. But if we had convinced the politicians there would have been no Jupiter mission at all." "Frankly, I wouldn't have minded a bit," Bromley says. "This is no place for a manned expedition. Unmanned probes could do everything that needs to be done here. I volunteered for a star mission, not this. I accepted Jupiter because they needed me." Ling smiles sadly. "We all desired star missions." "And none of us qualified," adds Speer. "I qualified for a star mission," Ludongo counters. "But my father, the Prime Minister (he stares straight at Bromley), did not want me to go. By the time I returned even from Alpha CentaurL he would be long in his grave." "Yet he permitted you to go on this -- this -- " Bromley means, but does not say, suicide mission . "A Ludongo does not back away from a question of courage." ders. "Let's face the truth. We're expendable. For this mission they needed good, capable men who woiv'i be missed too much if they don't come back." He made three great friends with that crack. We all know it's true but who wants to talk about it? The only nonexpendable member of this mission is the recorder. It listens to everything we say, takes down every bit of data from the instruments, carries my mutterings for the log. They built it to make its way back to the orbiting ships all by itself, even if we break into pieces. Starting to hear rumbles from the lightning storm. Bolts are becoming bright enough to blank out my eyes for a second or so. Noted -- hey, there's a blast! Single lightning tree zapping from the clouds above all the way down to the second deck. "Grab onto something quick -- " I put as much snap and urgency as I can into my words over the intercom. Turn off the outside mikes. The turbulence is like getting hit with a hammer. Stabilizer cuts in. Okay. Inside camera. "Everybody all right?" They're grumbling and swearing. Nobody hurt. "Get back to your own couches and strap in. Strong turbulence coming up." How come you only gave a thirty-second warning? Thanks for admitting it -- after the fact. Storm's spreading and we're heading right into it. Carpenter's not much on maneuvering -- more like a dirigible than anything else. Here's Captain Voronov. Chunky Russian. Used to be blond and jovial. Looks blond and worried now. HeJniCkles himself into the pilot's couch and fits the connectors to his face and cranium. Now there are two of us. He's sharing the ship with me. He slips his hands and feet into the control connectors. We're linked... "Don't think we can get around it, Andy." I can sense him nodding. My eyes are watching the flickering lightning, closer than ever now. The computer is superimposing numbers over the outside view -- storm's extent, our course and speed, turbulence levels. "I would not care to try going through it," Andrei says. His English comes out slow and careful, in a deep baritone: This saline we live in makes everybody's speech a bit slower 'and deeper than nprmal. The scientists are. all battened down like good little boys. They're watching their display screens, looking at the storm. IF "Would ft be possible," Ling asks softly, "to get close enough to the storm to observe the effect of the lightning on the biological particles?" "Lord, I should hope not," says Bromley. "Too much turbulence," Andrei says firmly. He's checking the mission plan and our performance limits. I realize that he wants to go under the storm, through the second cloud deck. I run through a systems check and start the computer plotting an optimum course. "Good Robert," Andrei says as the course plot flashes before our eyes. "The descent rate is steep but within tolerable limits. Execute." It is steep. My stomach doesn't like it. Displays are flashing like a movie now -- engine thrust, temperatures, hull pressures, strain, descent rate. Listen to them wail ! "What are we doing?" Ludongo calls. "Are we going down?" Andrei answers, "The only way to avoid the storm is by penetrating the second cloud layer." "But we're not supposed to go down for another two days. I have two days of experimertts to do at this level." Bromley: "You can't arbitrarily juggle the mission plan like this, without consulting us first. After all -- " "No time for discussion," Andrei cuts in. "We go right down." They're sore. And scared. Me, too. Below the second cloud deck is the real unknown. Only a couple probes ever got back. Those sonar pictures. Big as mountains. Warm. And alive? We're really bouncing now. I can feel liquid gurgling in my ears. Outside view is blank. We're in the clouds. Damned couch feels like it's got rocks inside the padding. Straps are cutting into me. Ship feels okay, though. Engines are strong. The bright boys in back are clammed up. Was that Bromley's yell? Don't blame him. Another drop like that and I'll yell too. Starting to ease off, I think. Maybe we -- what a jolt! Felt like a bomb went off inside the Ship. "Check it," Andrei says to me. The performance graph doesn't look too bad. No real danger. Look into the generator bay. Everything seems normal -- wait. A bubble just drifted up from behind the -- get a closeup. Yep, a leak in the coolant line. Nothing serious. Not yet. "I see it," Andrei says, j The ship's riding smoother now. Long, slow rolling moment, with a bit of a chdppy pitch still but now it's more regular. Not too bad. "I'd better fix that coolant leak," I tell Andrei. "Yes. And then take your rest period. We're out of the turbulence now. I can handle it alone." II I didn't sleep too well. Dreamed about Marlene, just like she was alive. The ship is riding along easily now, inside the ocean, more like a submarine than a dirigible. Andrei lolls in his couch. The scientists are happy as kids in a cave, with a whole new world to explore. Every instrument we have is going full bore. Visions of Nobel Prizes floating out there. Can't see much else. Really black now. Even the infrared is useless. It'sonar or nothing. No more snowflakes. Maybe they're still out there but they don't register on .the sonar. "Did you have a good sleep?" Andrei asks. "So-so. Kind of tense, excited. I feel more relaxed when I'm plugged in. Got something to do, somebody to talk to. It's lonely back there in the cocoon. Unplugged here means unconnected -- to me at least. Nothing to do but think and worry." Andrei says nothing. The connectors hide most of his face. All I can see are his mouth and chin. But I get the feeling that what I've said somehow has displeased him. Bromley braced me back there. I was on my way back from the generator bay, heading for the cocoon. He floated out of his own compartment and blocked the passageway. "Could we speak to you for a moment in private?" That's a laugh -- in private. "Who's we?" I asked him. Bromley nodded toward Ludongo's cubby and drifted toward the hatch to it. I pushed a foot against the passageway bulkhead and followed him. Ludongo was sitting on his couch. His instruments were all on automatic and he reached over to snap off his intercom screen when I hunched in. That was what Bromley had meant by private. "We want to talk with you," he rumbled in his pressure-deepened bass. "In. strict confidence," Bromley added. "If you feel that you can't keep what we say confidential -- " He let the idea dangle. "I'll listen," I said. "If you start to say things ! can't keep quiet about I'll tell you." "Fair enough," said Ludongo. He looked up at Bromley, who was bobbing nervously in front of the workbench. "We're worried about Captain Voronov," Bromley said. "Worried about him?" Ludongo ,said, "We don't like the arbitrary way he decided to IF ' plunge into the-ocean. That was not only, a dangerous decision but an unfair one." "Who's we?" I asked again. "We scientists, of course," Bromley said. "All four of you?" "Speer feels exactly as we do. Ling is naturally more reticent about his feelings but he's upset also." I looked at Bromley. Inside that rubbery face was a bom troublemaker, the kind who starts fights and then stands off at the sidelines holding the coats and watching the blood flow. "He's the captain," I said. "He had to make a fast decision. There wasn't any time for a conference or a vote." Bromley countered, "There were a number of other things he could have done. He could have reversed our course, or gone up over the storm.": I shook my head. "Either alternative would have cost too much energy. He's gofto consider the whole mission. You wouldn't want to get caught down here in a week or so without power, would you?" "Of course not," said Ludongo. "Maybe the captain made the best decision. We're not arguing that point -- merely the manner in which it was made. We should have been consulted," "No.timo.fprit." ; ( , !ci "Nonsense," Bromley said "lt's his attitude, that's all. He's acting as if this were a warship and we nothing but crew members under his command." "That's right. This is a military mission. That's why military men are in charge." "You two are in charge -- " Bromley shook a finger at me -- "because you're experienced in ship handling. The purpose of this mission is scientific. There isn't the faintest military reason for this expedition." I felt myself starting to simmer. "Come on now. If those buildings on Titan weren't there we wouldn't be here -- and you know it." "Yes," , Ludongo answered, smiling broadly, "that's true. But you don't actually expect to find the builders down here, do you?" "You're the scientists. You tell me. "What makes you so certain that those buildings present a military threat to man?" Bromley asked. H OW could he be, so blind? "Any race that can set up machinery that runs unattended for God-only-knows how many centuries has a technology that is capable of crushing us. You know that, too." "But what makes you think they'd be hostile?" . "Why are the machines still running?" Bromley told me with a look of disgust, "The machines could be completely benign toward us. More likely, they're completely indifferent. Their builders probably never gave a damn about us One way of the other." "I have my own idea," said Ludongo. "I have been on Mars. I have seen the artifacts there. They were created by human hands, built to human scale for human . uses." "Yes, I know," Bromley muttered. "It is entirely possible that there was a human civilization before the Ice Ages. A civilization that reached Mars, perhaps even Titan. Those buildings and the machinery inside them could have been put up by our own ancestors." I asked, "What happened to that civilization?" Shrugging, Ludongo answered, "War. Natural catastrophe." "The Ice Ages could have easily wiped it put," Bromley suggested. "On Earth," I said. "What happened on Mars, on the Moon? And why are the buildings on Titan still standing? And what are the machines doing?" No answers. "Okay," I said. "You could be right. Maybe there's nothing to be worried about. But there's still a good chance that the works on Titan were built by another race. We can't just assutne that they're friendly or even neutral." "They're probably dead and gone by now," Bromley said. "At least they're gone," Ludongo added. They still didn't get it. "Look. From a military point of view, we've got to assume that those buildings represent a possible threat. We've got to. be ready for that threat. If it never materializes, fine. But if it does and we're not ready for it -- goodbye for keeps." "How could you possibly ex. pect to be ready -- " "We've drifted away from the original subject," Ludongo said uneasily. "No, we'fe exactly on the subject," I insisted. "This is a military mission. The captain's job is to seek out any alien life forms we can find and get enough information about them to decide whether or not they might have built the machines on Titan." "That's arrant nonsense. No creatures that live in this black gravity pit could even realize that there are other worlds, let alone build interplanetary ships." "Maybe. But we're here to find out for sure. You scientists are supposed to provide the information. The captain and I are here to rujx the ship and see that the mission objectives are carried out." Bromley's face seemed to puff out even more with anger. He looked past me, to Ludongo. IF "I told you it'd do no good to talk to him. Bloody fools all think alike. Military mission!" He turned on me. "You're here to ferry us about and see to it that we're safe and comfortable. This is a scientific expedition. There's no military necessity behind it -- except what you gold-braided barbarians make up out of thin air." "Okay, that's enough," I snapped; "You can think whatever you Uke. But you'll take orders from the captain just like any crewman on a military ship. Period." I didn't wait for an answer. I pushed through the hatch and swam up the passageway to the flight deck: ter is almost funny. Bromley's weird: He really thinks we'd be risking our butts in this soup just to give him a chance to satisfy his scientific curiosity. Six faint white blips in the middle of the gray, grainy Sonardisplay. Nothing else is visible. Computer's flashing data -- course, current vector, range, closing speed. Andrei mumbles, "Fifty kilometers away and closing on us at better than fifty kilometers per hour.'" "Look at that current vector. Unless the computer's blown a circuit, they're moving against the current." Andrei goes to the intercom. "Sonar has detected six large objects approaching us. They are moving upstream -- against the prevailing current." Ling is the first to answer. "Is this' the maximum enlargment you can provide?" He's got the sonar display on his main screen. "Yessir," I answer. "It's on max. When they get into closer range we can switch to other sensors." Ludongo, "Can the computer make a size estimate?" Kilometers! Not a word from the scientists now. They're all watching the sonar display. Ling's trying to view them on infrared, as well. About all you can tell at this range is that they're slightly warmer than the sea itself. They've disappeared. "My Screen's gone blank." "What happened?" "Hold on, hold on," I yell at them. Check the screens. Get a wide-angle view. Yeah, there they are -- look at them go! "They're running away from us." "They sure are," I say... Andrei watches them' dwindle in the distance on the wide-angle sonar display. "I thought we had lost them entirely when they jumped out Of view on the closeup. Give me a speed estimate." "I don't believe it," I mutter. "We certainly won't be able to catch up with them," Andrei says. A very ptactical thought. "They are alive," Ling says, awed. He's knocked the empty sonar display off his main screen and is rerunning the tape showing the animals. "Alive," Speer echoes. "And so huge." "Like whales," Andrei says. "Jovian whales. Have any of you hunted whales?" No answers. "Well, I have. When I was much younger. Whales can be very intelligent beasts -- extremely intelligent." Bromley chimes in, "Do they build machinery, Captain?" "No. But they learn to run at the sight of danger. Those Jovianwhales ran away from something. They sensed us, probably, and bolted. Why should they do that?" mouth is set in a tight line. "Are you suggesting that these animals are accustomed to being hunted?" Bromley asks. His voice is dripping disbelief. "They certainly acted as if they were frightened." "Nonsense," Bromley snorts. Ludongo says, "But there's the infall of biological snow from the clouds above. This ocean is like a constantly replenished biological soup -- " Bromley, "More like a biological vichysoisse, considering the temperatures out there." "The point is," Ludongo resumes, "that the whales have a, steady food supply. Why should there be predators when free food is plentiful?" I can sense Andrei shrugging. "Terrestrial baleen whales eqt plankton -- also free. Yet they are preyed upon by orcas, sharks -- and submarines carrying men." "You're not suggesting that these whales are hunted by intelligent creatures?" Bromley looks really upset. He doesn't want to believe a word of what is being said by the others but his face shows absolute fear. "I am suggesting only that those whales were frightened by us -- and fear is normally a conditioned reflex," Ling gives a little cough. "Excuse my interruption, please. But it seems that these arguments cannot be resolved until we learn more about the creatures themselves. Can anyone suggest a technique by which we can study them at close range?" "Not if they run when they sense us," Bromley says. Speer adds: "And they de- IF tected us at fifty kilometers, didn't they?" "Hew can we get close to them?" Ludongo asks. Andrei knows. I'm sure. But he's hesitating. Probably used the technique hunting whales in the Antarctic. We've done it in , the Navy. What the hell, we're supposed to be working together now. I'll break the ice. "We can try to spoof the whales' sonar," I tell them. "What's that?" I peek at Andrei again. He's broken into a broad grin. "Check the sonar tapes," I say, "to find the frequency that the whales used to detect us. Then amplify our return signal on that same frequency. It'll make the whales think we're one of them. Instead of running, they might let us get close." "Exactly,',' Andrei agrees. "The trick works against terrestrial whales. Even against terrestrail antisubmarine patrols." We laugh together. For once everybody's in agreement. The computer has a record of the sonar frequency the whales put out. It's lower than anything we can do. So Andrei goes aft to jury-rig one of the transmitters to match the whales' frequency. Alone not?. Ship's completely mine again. Feels good. Nothing around us. Riding smooth and easy. Funny I dreamed about Marlene. Haven't thought about her since we left Earth. Maybe it .wasn't a dream. Too logical. Maybe I just remembered about her while I tried to sleep. Damned right there isn't. I know. They want to study our dreapis. They claim it's important for the next mission. Especially if we don't make it back. Get it into the recorder so they'll be able to figure out if we went off the deep end. Sure. Only two or three dozen psychs will hear the tape. Okay, can't argue with mission objective fourteen. I'll try to remember the dream. For the psychs. For the next set of poor bastards they send in here. Ill to the Sequoia forest. After , so many months training in Texas flat scrubland we wanted to see mountains and real trees again, The park was "tilled with tourists, even a planeload of scout troops from Indonesia. We ducked off the main trail and climbed up and away from them. The trees are as big and tall as booster rockets -- they've been standing there for two thousand years. Solemn as a cathedral. And those damned people crawling around clicking cameras, yelling after kids, carving initials. Sacrilegious. "Look at them," I said to Marlene when we stopped for breath halfway up the slope. "Not a care in the world. This damned Titan business doesn't mean a thing to them" She answered, "Perhaps they are "trying very hard to forget about Titan." She was inclined to be serious -- a Germanic trait, I guess. When" we had first met, back at the beginning of training, she had told me several times that she wasn't going to fall in love with me because the chances were that we'd be sent on different missions and because she was older than I. But six months later we ran off like a couple of kids and got married. Nobody else knew about it. Very . romantic. Now we worked 'our way deeper into the forest, hiking up the slope, away from the noise of the tourists. I had our lunch in my backpack. The big trees made a canopy of cool shade far overhead but every once in a while a shaft ofsunlight would break through and set off sparkling highlights in Marlene's hair. "Actually," she said thoughtfully, "life has become much better since the discovery of the buildings on Titan. World tensions have dried up. The threat of a big war is now very dim." I laughed. "Sure. Why worry about blowing ourselves to hell when there's a race somewhere that can do it for us?" "But it's a much more distant threat, a remote possibility. That race visited the solar system thousands of years ago. Perhaps thousands of centuries ago. They may never come back." "Then why are the machines still working?" I asked. "And what are they doing?" "That is the disquieting part of it," she admitted. We found a mossy stretch with a cold stream sluicing through it. We could hear birds and a squirrel chittered at us from the firehollowed base of a tree. I unslung the pack from my shoulders and we had lunch. "You were there," I said 'through a sandwich. "What's it really like?" She stopped eating and shook her head. "It's -- very hard to describe. Not the physical conditions -- you've seen films of the buildings add you know what Titan's like -- " "Pretty damned dark and # ' IF gloomy, except when Saturn's up." "There you forget that Saturn's in the sky," Marlene said. "You can -- teel -- the machinery throbbing. The ground vibrates. When you're near the buildings the sensation you get -- it makes your flesh crawl." "They ought to hit it with a nukie missile and make everybody feel better." "But suppose the machines are sending out a signal? Some wavelength that we can't detect? If we stop that signal -- mightn't it tell those who built the machines that it's time to return to the solar system?" Her eyes were wide now with real fear. I had run out of flip answers. "I spent a whole year there," Marlene went on, quieternow. "We knew just as much about the machines when I left as when I had arrived. We don't dare dismantle them. I'm not even sure that we could if we tried." I lay back and stared up at the green canopy above us. Fresh andalive and good. "Must, be like living next to a haunted house," Tmuttered. "That's exactly it," Marlene said, stretching out beside me. I put my arm around her shoulders. Instead of drawing closer to me, though, she said, "Bob, I saSv a man try to kill himself on Titan. The problem got too much for. him to bear. We barely got to hiih in time." I made a sympathetic noise. "Bob -- you see, I was in love with him. He was married but his wife had stayed oh Earth. He never knew I loved Him but I did. I think I still do." All in a rush. I turned and looked at her. "In love? Where is he now? How long ago -- " "He's out of the hospital. I saw him yesterday at the center. He's been accepted for star-flight training. If he can qualify and get through the training he'll go on a star mission." "And you still Jove him." "I'm not. sure. I think I do. His wife has divorced him, I believe." "Great." I forced a smile. "So we'll have a triangle heading out for the stars. Maybe we can all get freezer beds next to each other." That was before I knew I would be sent to Jupiter, not on a star mission. And before she died. sonar transmitter, matching its output against the computer memory of the whales' frequency. Flash me a comparison. Looks good. Check sonar. Nothing out there now. Sea's empty. Controls feeling sluggish. Nothing definite, no alarms. Just not responding as smoothly as they should. Maybe it's the outside pressure. Up to seventy tonsper square centimeter. Andrei's not yet plugged in. Still playing with the sonar. "Looks good to me," I tell him. He nods. But he looks sort of grim, preoccupied. "Yes, I suppose it will do." He hesitates. Then: "Can you handle the controls by yourself for a while longer? I want to check something with Speer:" "You feel sick?" "I'm having a little trouble breathing." I look at him. He means it. "But you're not breathing. The gillsare." Frowning. "Yes, of course. I mean I'm having some soreness in my chest. Perhaps I'm merely tired." "Well, you'd better check it out." He puts his hand on my shoulder. "Don't be worried. It's nothing, serious, I'm sure. Speer will probably say it's psychological. You know, I really don't enjoy being plugged into the ship. It bothers me. It makes me feel less than hufnan." "Really? I get just the opposite reaction." He bangs my shoulder. "Good... I'll let Speer poke at me and then take my rest period. Call me if anything unusual develops, will you?" That's almost funny. "How do you define unusual?"  He laughs. "Use your judgment, comrade." Alone again.Odd that Andrei should feel that way.Being plugged in -- it's beyond being human. Lets you think with the speed of a computer, see what no human could ever see for himself, swim the depths of Jupiter's seas. All human frailties and fears wiped out, buried, forgotten. Go ahead. Display data. Curves .don't look too bad. All parameters within tolerable limits. Check possible reasons for pressure rise and display most likely. ER, operating normally ; HqlLcofrpgioq,, Thai pquld lead to major failure. IF all parameters withAt present. Display projected estimate of hull strength over next twenty-four hours. Understood. Monitor hull pressure continuously. Flash yellow alert when structural strength drops five per cent from its current value. Understood. Execute order as given. And also review all mission objectives, by priority rating. List all priority objectives that can be accomplished in periods of twelve, twenty-four, thirty-six, and fortyeight hours. And maintain continuous watch on hull pressure. Display. Yes, there they are. Ten... fifteen... seventeen of them. Range? Display their course and relative velocity. Estimated tinfe to intercept? Execute intercept course.' Any change in hull pressure? "Seventeen big ones on sonar," I say into the intercom. I'm nearly whispering, I realize. "If they've detected us at all our sonar camouflage has fooled them. So far." T HE scientists must have been asleep. Takes them a few minutes to get started again. Now I can see that they've all got the sonar display on their screens. Andrei's in the cocoon. Leave him there. Nothing will happen for two hours or more. Sonar view again. "We don't know how sensitive their accoustical gear is," I tell the scientists. "We're matching their own outputs as closely as possible. Our engine noise is muffled as much as we can manage. We should run silent in case tlwy're sensitive to other frequencies. Don't make unnecessary noise." .It's easy to keep quiet. The whales are just too awesome for words. Even in the gray, ghbstly sonar view they look tremendous, gliding effortlessly through the ocean in a loose herd. We're gaining on them slowly, holding our breaths. Can't see much detail about them with sonar. But they're getting bigger and bigger. Sonar's getting jumbled now -- too many echoes are bouncing around. Display's starting to look like a badly tuned television picture. Switch to infrared. Better. They radiate nicely. Look slightly orange. They've got tail flukes something like a whale's -- maybe smaller in proportion to the body. And a fin or something under the gut. Edge closer to them, careful, don't make any sudden moves, nothing that will scare them. Hard to tell their real size, nothing to compare them against. Give me a rundown on the numbers you've got. Pulling up astern of them now. Feel like a flea trailing an elephant herd. It would take ten minutes to travel the length of one of them with engines on max standard power. It's been two hours since we first sighted them. Andrei slips quietly into his couch. "Want the controls?" I whisper, glancing at him with the intercom eyes. He shakes his head. "No, you're doing very well." He pulls the sensor unit in front of his eyes but doesn't touch any of the controls or communications connectors. Ling pipes up, "Can we pull closer to them?" "Don't go between them," Andrei warns. "Are we close enough to use TV?" Ludongo asks. "What do you think?" I ask Andrei. "I doubt that they are sensitive to light," he says. "Tiy a few short bursts with the laser first, to see if there is any reaction." I steer out alongside the herd, then settle as close as I dare to one of the outer bulls. Not that I can tell, a damned thing about their spx, if they have any. But the outermost whales are the biggest. Laser beam doesn't seem to bother him. Put it on fast scan and hook in the TV. Back away so we can get the whole animal on the viewscreen. Listen to the wise men gasp. Now we can see them for real,-' in color and all. They stagger the mind. Built more like an armless ' squid than anything else. Flukes in the tail, but these seem to be more for maintaining trim and maneuvering than for propulsion. Mammoth open mouth up front; maybe it's permanently open. Can't see any teeth. A siphon under the belly pulses rhythmically. No wonder they can move so fast -- they run on jet propulsion. No eyes, no fins except the tail flukes. Sleek and streamlined. Powerful. Glossy gray-green color. IF Mouths big enough to swaHow a town. Ifthey had teeth we'd be toothpick size for them. Nobody's saying a word now. For once the scientists and I are in complete agreement. I could watch these giants all day. They're just gliding along in formation, the outer bulls weaving back and forth a little. Can't make out any really small members inside the pack but there's a pretty tight knot of cows in the center. Maybe they're protecting the youngsters. From what? Every instrument on the ship is grinding away. Power drain is at max. Just keeping up with these whales while they're grazing is straining the engines. "Is there any way we can get samples of their tissue?" Ling asks. I hope he's being rhetorical. Bromley says, "I suppose we could slice off a bit with the highpower laser." ' I glance at Andrei. com unit. "Our orders are to conduct remote observations of any life-forms discovered. No direct contact unless it is forced upon us. No samples, I'm sorry." "Oh, come now," Bromley argues. "A little nick on one of those flukes -- " "We have no way of knowing how the animal would react," Andrei says. "I wouldn't want to be close to one when it started thrashing around; Well -- would you?" No answer. Discussion ended. "How're you feeling?" I ask him. "Not too bad. Speer says he can't find anything physically wrong." "Want to rest some more?" "No. It's time for your rest period, isn't it?" "I'm not tired." "Never mind. Go back and sleep." It's funny. He sounds so reluctant. He doesn't want to plug in. And he 'doesn't realize how much I don't want to unplug. "Something you ought to know." I tell him about the hull, show him the computer's estimates and then flash the priority lists. "I haven't told the scientists about it yet. Observing the whales overrides all the other priority mission objectives. Looks like pressure's holding steady, even though it's a little high. Probably the hull will be okay as long as we don't go any deeper." Andrei still hasn't plugged in... I can see his whole face. He looks positively happy. "I understand. We will start the twelve-hour priority list and do as much as we can. If the hull still is good after that we will stretch it foe another twelve hours. But that's all. After that we go up." "What do you think the scientists are going to say?" He Shrugs. "That is irrelevant." Fine by me. Let him argue with them. Andrei slowly plugs himself in and takes over control of the. ship. It's time forme to let go. IV Pain! Lights flashing, ship tumbling wildly. "What's the matter? What's going on?" I'm slapping on connectors as fast as I can. Ship's lurching like a runaway drunk. Andrei looks bad. "Can't -- control -- can't -- " "Speer. Get up here fast." Check all systems. Give me just the emergency data. I'm trying, I'm trying! Outside view. Nothing. Where did the whales go? "Speer -- where the hell are you?" "I'm right here!" he screams through my earphone from a few centimeters away. Inside view. Speer's unplugging Andrei. Captain's arms are floating limply, head lolling ' back, mouth sagging open. Ship still buffeting. Fighting for control. Stabilizer coming around. Slewing and rolling. "What the hell happened? I was in the sack when everything seemed to bust , loose." "I don't know," Speer . shouts. "It all happened so fast. The captain yelled something and the ship seemed to roll completely over. Lights went off for a moment. I fell out of my couch. I think Ling's been hurt." Got her righted now. Bouncing's smoothing but. Stabilizer starting to respond on its own. Any red alerts? Speer's still struggling with the captain. "Ludongo, Bromley -- one of you get up here and give Speer a hand with the captain." We're all in one piece. Run a complete systems check, display anything, outside nominal values. Display hull pressure. Okay. Rerun sensor tapes for the past ten minutes so I can figure outjwhat happened. TV view, good. There are the whales, still feeding. Everything peaceful enough, what are those? Different -- look at the whaies buck! There they go, top speed, right out of sight: Wide-angle soIF n ax view now. More animals zooming in. Not whales, though. Too small. Different shape. Delta form, faster, tight formation. Look like manta rays or sharks. Zooming in like rocketplanesThey, they're coming right at us! Blackout. Back to real time. Outside view. Still nothing. Whatever they Were, they're gone. Intercom. Speer's got Andrei on the emergency couch in the medical bay, next to his own compartment. With these damned gills you can't tell if a man's breathing or not. Closeup. Yep, the gills are pulsing. But damned slow. And why did they have to make them green? "Speer, hoyfr's he doing?" "I don't know," Speer says, looking miserable. "He has some of the symptoms of shock. Blood pressure's very low. I'm going to try pressure cuffs to pump the blood back up from his legs and lower torso." "Dr: Ling needs help also," Ludongo says. Look in on Ling's compartment. He's got a gash on his forehead. Blood seeping out makes a reddish cloud that drifts in the circulation currents toward the exhaust duct in the overhead. Ludongo's in therewith him. "It's not a serious wound," Ling says calmly. "Attend to the captain first,"  "Somebody put a patch on him . at least," I say. Ludongolooks up at the intercom Screen. Bromley, back in his own cubicle, says, "I'll get a firstaid kit." Okay. They're helping each other. Ship's handling all right now. Controls still sluggish, though. Stabilizer acting okay. Andrei must have turned off our fake-whale signal. Why? I "Does anyone understand what happened to us?" Ludongo asks. He's sitting beside Ling, who now has a white plastic gummed on his brown skin from one non-existent eyebrow halfway back to the top of his head. It's about three times more bandage than the cut needed, but at least the bleeding has stopped. "We were attacked by the sharks -- or whatever they were," I tell them. Ling agrees. "I was watching the viewscreen when it happened. The new type of creature is clearly a predator." "Sharks," Bromley mutters. "And we outsmarted ourselves," I realize. "Our sonar camouflage fooled the sharks. They thought we were a whale. When the real whales took off and we just stood here, they jumped us." "But how?!' Ludongo asks. "Did they ram the ship? What did they do to us?" Good' questions. We rerun the tapes. Four times. In ultra-slow motion. The computer checks their sizes, speeds, closing rates. Up at the front end of their manta-shaped bodies is a snout that may or may not have a mouth in it. They're about a quarter of the size of the whales -- still more than three times our size; And the computer is very definite that the nearest shark was still half a kilometer away from us when Andrei shoutedand the ship went haywire. Now we're all silent. Very, very silent. Speer standing Over the captain. Ling on his couch, with the other two beside him. And me up on the flight deck. The sharks have something that can knock this ship for a loop. Something that acts over a range of half a kilometer. A weapon. "'V#'OU'R ! E not suggesting that they're actually intelligent?" Bromley asks finally, his voice strained. "Who can say?" Ludongo replies. "Are dolphins intelligent?" "We must learn more about them," Ling says. "But how?" "Decoy them again," I answer. "Put on our whale camouflage and wait for them to find us." "We can't risk it," says Speer. "The captain's been hurt. What happens if you -- " His voice drops out. Bromley chips in, "Yes, and how long can you stay at the controls of thi ship without Collapsing from fatigue? I vote that we get out while we're still able to. We've already discovered much more than anyone expected us to." ' "Still," Ling says, "it would be extremely valuable to study these creatures further. If they are intelligent -- " I tell them, "Discovery of an intelligent creature falls under our primary mission objective. The most important task we have is to determine if the sharks are intelligent or not. "Wait," Bromley says. "What about the hull? The captain told us while you were sleeping that the hull is showing signs of corrosion and we must pull out in twelve hours. So any further arguments are purely academic." "We still have twelve hours to see what we can accomplish," I say. "And longer if we need it." "What about the captain himself?" Sheer asks. "We should be getting him to propermedical treatment." "Will twelve hours be critical?" I ask. , "Of course. Twelve minutes might be critical. I can't really diagnose him accurately here." What would Andrei do if I were stretched out on the couch? Twelve hours. He's in shock. If he's lived through the first few minutes he ought to be okay. Speer can take care of him. Ship's IF all mine now -- the decisions are mine to make. Another twelve hours. All mine for another twelve hours. Maybe longer. "We'll stay," I tell them. "Speer, let me know if he gets any worse. We'll put out the whale sonar signal. If the sharks show up we'll try some long-range looks at them and then turn off the whale signal." "If they have any intelligence at all,' I Bromley says, "the sonar camouflage won't fool them. They'll know we're not a whale:" "It fooled them once." "Did it?" Hadn't thought of that. Ignore it. "Okay. The computer will give each of you a priority list of measurements that must be made. Carry out as many as you can, starting at the top of the list. If and when we make contact with alien life-forms, all instruments will be devoted to getting as much data on them as possible." Bromley mutters, "Another ruddy admiral handing down orders to his deck hands." But they're getting to work. Keep them busy. Suppose the sharks are intelligent? Suppose they're the ones who built the machines on Titan? What kind of weapon did they use on the. ship? What else do they have? Not now. I'm busy. I didn't really dream... Okay, okay -- But it wasn't much of. anything. It was kind of mixed up, wierd. Part of it was the last time I saw Marlene. with gills. They had us living in test tanks. The banjos connected with the lake and we could spend our free time there if we felt like it. I had been there for an hour or so, watching the dolphins they had stocked the lake with. To keep us company, I guess. Marlene had not told me she was coming to see me. She just showed up with a tank strapped to her back and her face covered by a goggled mask. But I recognized her immediately. Even with her hair pulled back I knew her the instant I saw her. "They've taken off all your hair," was the first thing she said from inside the mask. "More than you know," I answered. I was wearing my trunks. We swam for a long time, hooked rides on the dolphins, talked about trivialities, hardly  touched each other. "I've got my assignment," she said at last. "Sirius." "Same as your friend?" "Yes." "Was it a tough job to wangle the same mission? Did you have tolay any of the administrators or personnel people?" "Bob, don't be -- " "Don't be what?" I asked. And somehow it was a different time and place. I was standing in front of a desk, in. my Navy uniform, while a fat civilian was telling me, Don't be disappointed that you weren't accepted for a star mission. Only a handful of the very finest scientists, bhd spacemen could be picked. There's an even more challenging assignment waiting for you, if I must have asked him what it was. Jupiter...Far more dangerous and hostile than any star mission. The most difficult challenge we have ever faced. And possibly the most important. Certainly the most rigorous mission we've attempted so far... Note the we. He never got closer to Jupiter than the men's room down the hall from his office. The Jupiter mission Is so hostile that we're only accepting single men for it. He hesitated a beat, . then: There's been a rumor that you... I'm not married, I said to him. I was once but she's, dead now... I'm single. The dream changed again. I was" standing alone, watching as Marlene died. The details were confused, mixed up. The noise was shattering. Flame and smoke. People shouted and pointed. No, it's all a jumble. dream. End of report. Give me a sonar sweep, max range. Still nothing. Okay, systems check. Controls still heavy. Don't like the way the stabilizer -- hey, why are we nose down? The hell it is. I want her straight and level. Maintain constant depth. Override it, then. Keep us straight and level. Check ship's attitude every five minutes. If the stabilizer can't keep us level, override it. "Speer, how's the captain?" Young as he is, Speer is squintIF ing near-sightedly at the sick-bay instrument board. "His condition is about the same. Comatose. Blood pressure low but steady." "Will he make it?" He shrugs elaborately. "If we were on Earth or even on one of the orbiting ships -- " He's looking for a bowl of water to wash away his responsibility. "Are you still insisting on this madness?" Bromley's whine. "We haven't found any more animals. Give it up. For God's sake, let's get out of here while we still can." Hull pressure report. Minimum time to failure? "All systems are within tolerable limits," I say into the intercom. "We will continue the mission." Dr. Ling, sounding a little weaker than before, says, "I wish to go on record as requesting that we remain at least long enough to make another attempt at observing the native life forms. If possible, I would like to sample some tissue." Tough old bird. He'd probably go afterJovian whale hide with his teeth if he had to! "Dr. Ludongo, do you wish to make any comment for the ship's log?" After a moment's hesitation, he answers, I T am I cbhrnedaou t the captain's health and the ship's safety. However, I realize the importance of our mission and wish to continue -- unless the risks become too great." Hah! His father couldn't have straddled the fence any better. Display it. Six blips. Too far to make out what they are. Keep them in sight, follow them. Display size estimates as soon as sufficient data is recorded. Understood. "We have six objects on sonar," I tell them, punching the sonar display onto thir screens. "Are they whales or sharks?" Ludongo asks. "Probably whales. They're cruising peacefully. Too far off to sense us." Bromley says, "If they're sharks and they attack us -- " "Computer is preset to turn off our whale signal if sonar returns show that they're sharks." Bromley doesn't look happy at all. I can see him shudder. V Can't rest. Captain's in sick bay. Watching myself on the inside camera, I pull my hands and feet out of the control connectors. N.ow I reach between Andrei's couch and mine for the nutrient tube and plug it into the socket on my left arm. Andrei's is on his right arm. He used to joke that this was the way you could tell the pilot from the co-pilot. ER. I crank the couch back slightly and try to relax. Sonar still shows six gray smudges. Guess I'm supposed to nap but I don't want ,to. Dream too much. Like the time just before we left for Moonbase, when I was swimming in the lake' and saw Marlene. She'd been dead for more than a month but there she was swimming toward me. My heart just stopped. Only it wasn't she. When the girl got close enough I could see she did not look anything at all like Marlene. I don't want to dream about her now. Concentrate on the mission. Don't sleep. Don't dream. ER. Must have dozed off after all. Computer turned off the sensor display. Outside view. They're whales all right. More than six -- two smaller ones in sight. Youngsters? Can't be sharks, they're riding right alongside one of the big . ones.  Maintain max magnification and display all data as it comes in. Also maintain max warning range for any other contacts. Interrupt all displays if another contact appears. Look in on the scientists. They're resting now, letting the instruments pull in the data and record it. Ling's watching the sonar display while lying down. Bromley and Ludongo are chatting about something over the intercom. Science stuff. Speer's back in his own cubby, sleeping.' Check the captain. Still unconscious, looks like. Tap into the medical recorders. All displays fairly constant -- heart rate, breathing, body temperature. Holding his own, I guess. Track him. It's more than one. A dozen objects, whistling along in close formation out at the edge of our sonar range. They're on the far IF side of the whale group. Probably they haven't picked us up at all. They're sharks, no doubt about it. Can't tell their sizes or shapes at this distance. But just watching them move you can see they're completely different from the whales. They're hunters. And killers. "Sonar contact. Twelve sharks," I say on the intercom. The scientists snap to life, stare at the sonar display. ,, "Observe max safety procedures,"! tell them. They're already strapping in. Range to whales? Maintain constant distance from them. Follow them without getting any closer. So far the whales haven't detected the sharks at all. They're just lumbering along. The sharks are still out at the edge of our detection range. But now they're splitting up into smaller groups -- two or three each. "My God, they're going to surround the whales!" Bromley's voice, awe-stricken. "Rather intelligent behavior," Ling says softly. Ludongo, "Many predators on Earth are equally intelligent. The lion, for instance. And the wolf." Two of the sharks are circling' around behind the whales while the rest are deploying themselves ahead of the whales and along their flanks. The whales still haven't noticed theih. Speer says, "They're going to be butchered -- " "Shouldn't you be turning off the whale signal?" Bromley asks. Ludongo says, "If we turn off the camouflage signal the real whales might sense us and bolt." . "That could save their lives," says Ling. "Surely many of them will be killed if they don't begin to run soon." "Mission objectives clearly state we are not to interfere with local ecological patterns," I remind them. "However, ship safety requirements have the highest priority." ER. Understood. Will assume stabilizer is being overriden every five minutes until you report otherwise. No further need for override reports. Turn off the sonar signal. If the scientists Could hold their breaths with artificial gills they'd be doing it now. Nothing. The whales don't , sense us. And the two sharks are paying no attention to us either. They're lining up. The other sharks are deployed in ambush. There they go. Wide-angle view -- follow them in. The whales finally sense them. Look at thenr buck. The whales are faster than the sharks -- at least for short sprints. They're going to bull right past the sharks and break free. bolts! Electric blasts arching from the sharks to the whales. Blank out the eyes when they flash. They're paralyzing the whales with electricity. "Stop them -- kill them," Bromley's shouting. "Don't let them do it -- use the laser on the sharks -- " The sharks are doing a thorough job.' Electric bolts stun the whales. Then the sharks latch on with their snouts, like lamprey eels. Looks like they suck the juices from the whales, instead of eating the meat. Most of the whales have two or , three sharks attached to them now, drifting slowly, sinking. One of the youngsters has managed to keep clear of them. He's heading our way, emitting all sorts of high-pitched peeps. Three sharks closing in on him. "Save him," Bromley shrieks. "Don't let them get him -- " "Our mission is to observe, not interfere."  This time it happens no farther than ten kilometers from us. Infrared picks up good detail. The little whiale isn't much bigger than our ship. He's fast but the sharks have an angle on him. Closing fast. Youngster's screeching louder and louder. Or maybe it's just the Doppler effect. There goes the. lightning -- was that Bromley groaning? Eyes recovered , now. Whale's dead in the water. One shark already stuck into him, other two move in and hook on. The sceneis obscene. Ludongo says, "Now we know how they attacked us. An electric arc -- it makes an effective weapon." "But a completely natural one," Ling says, sounding a little subdued. "They apparently have no artifacts." "The captain must've been jolted when theif electric arcs hit the ship. Doubt he got an electrical shock -- the systems are protected 'against that. But having several bolts slam into the ship and overpower all the controls and sensors must have been enough to send him into -- what do you call it, Speer?" "Physiological shock." "Yes. Does that help you? Can you treat him better now?" "Not really." He sounds sullen. Outside view shows the baby whale and its three leeches drifting just below us now. "Why did you have to let them get the little one?" L flick a look at him. He's practically in tears. Bromley's livid. It's hard to tell what Ludongo's expression means. Ling's impassive but very quiet now. Sheer IF emotionalism. The whale was panicked and running blind. It wasn't heading for us deliberately. It couldn't know that we might have helped it. Ling speaks up. "It seems there is a considerable amount of Jovian tissue nearby. Will it possible to sample it?" Looking out again, I see that the sharks have detached from the baby whale. It's still close to us but starting to sink faster. The sharks have gone. There are no living creatures left nearby. Nose the ship down. Plot fastest intercept course. How deep? Display any change in nose pressure immediately. Ling uses the high-powered laser to vaporize some of the whale's flash. Studies the light on spectrophotometer. Ludongo helps by probing the animal with high-frequency sonar to get some idea of density. Bromley tries neutron beam probe but returns look too weak to be intelligible. Either not much solid structure inside the baby or Bromley's still too upset to work instruments. "Speer, how's the captain's condition?" He looks up from the sick bay couch. "Worse. His breathing rate is slower. I think the higher pressure down at this depth is bothering him." Check internal monitor. "But the internal pressure's only upone point one percent." "I don't care what the numbers are," he says, frowning angrily. "His gill rate is getting critical. It's getting hard for me to breathe, too. My gill rate's slowed down -- I've checkedit." Pressure shouldn't bother them. Check performance ratings for gill systems. Curve shows pressure versus oxygen production. Now superimpose ship's current internal pressure readings. Pressure is approaching the critical point but is not there yet. Whale is still sinking. "Dr. Ling, we will exceed safety margins if we go deeper." "Do you have all the data you, want?" Ludongo asks. Ling smiles into the camera. "It would take several generations to get all the data that I desire. But I have accomplished far more than I expected to. I can stopnow if you wish." Good. Set course for surface and execute. Useless. Track down the malfunction. Fast. Possible causes of stabilizer failure: electrical, hydraulic, mechanical. If electrical, can use alternate circuit. If hydraulic, backup system should work. But if external pressure has overloaded the system -- and ship's still nosing deeper -- : we're in trouble. Flick on the intercom. "Gentlemen, the stabilizer system is temporarily inoperative." Explain it to them. Watch their faces. Each one shows fear. "Isn't there anything we can do?" Bromley asks. "Computer is working on the problem." "You could use engine thrust to push us up out of this depth," Ludongo says. "Perhaps at lower pressures the stabilizer will work again." He's running his hands along the edge of his couch as he speaks. "That might be tried if nothing else works." "Why not now?" Speer asks. "It would take an excessive amount of propulsion power to lift the ship while the stabilizer is pointing us down. There might not be enough power left to lift out of the atmosphere and return to orbit." "There is nothing for us to do but wait?" asks Ling. "That's right." "Tell me," Bromley says, his voice calm except for a slight tremor. "How long can we remain in this attitude before we reach a depth that.will crush the ship?" "Insufficient data." They lapse into silence. Ludongo turns again to his workbench. Bromley leans back on his couch. Ling is rerunning data tapes. Speer is fidgeting around the captain. Computer, make a straight-line extrapolation of. pressure gradient recorded so far. Compare it to hull structural strength and display an estimated time to hull rupture. Private circuit display for flight deck only. What about malfunction check on stabilizer. IF at fifteen per cent beRun through history of stabilizer performance. Minute-byminute record off the tapes. Identify when nose-down began and check all circuits, components and total system status at that moment. Ludongo calls, "O'Banion, why don't you use the engine's thrust to take us up just a little? There's no sense staying at this depth." "Not yet necessary. May be possible to identify the fault and correct it before critical depth is reached." Bromley says, "Is that O'Banion talking or the computer?" "I -- I can't tell," Ludongo says, sounding shocked. and heads from Bromley's compartment. No, not Bromley's. Ling's. "Could I speak with you. Dr. Ling? In private?" Ling's been running tapes of our encounter with the sharks when they slaughtered the whale family. He blinks once at Speer, then reaches out and turns off his intercom connections. Blank now. Where's that stabilizer history? "O'Banion, this is Ludongo again. I don't want to seem panicky but it's getting damned uncomfortable in here. Can't you take us up at least a little way?" Bromley: "I thought it was only me. It is becoming bad in here. My head aches terribly and I'm beginning to get pains fn my chest and abdomen." Check internal pressure. Rising. Nearing max allowable. Check life-support systems. All functioning normally but curves starting to approach red. "Internal environment remains within tolerable limits. Emotional factors may be adding to your discomfort. No one is in immediate physical danger. Suggest you ask Dr. Speer for tranquilizers." "He's talking like theruddy computer," Bromley insists. The intercom in Ling's compartment flicks back on. Speer leaves, returns to the sick bay. "This pressure is hurting the captain,"he says, squinting at the monitor board above Voronov's head. "His breathing rate is going down steadily." "Check for gill malfunction." Why does someone have to spell out everything fot him? "For God's sake," Bromley shouts. "Take us up! Can't you see we're starting to die in here? We're too deep -- we can't stand it here much longer -- " "All systems are within tolerable limits." "But the people aren't," Bromley yells. "Damn the machines -- the people are dying. Damn you military heroes -- you're driving us to death. It was a mistake to trust our lives to you." "Systems indicate your reaction is purely emotional, possibly close to hysteria. Dr. Speer, please -- " "May I interrupt?" Ling's voice slides in smoothly. "Although all the systems appear to be operating within tolerable limits, as you say, I suggest that there is one system that may be working at less then nominal values." "Which one?" "Thepilot." He means the human pilot. Operating at less than nominal value. Noway to check that. Ling goes on: "You have been at the controls steadily now for more than twelve hours. If nothing else, fatigue may be clouding your judgment. Perhaps you should check the computer's memory for the operating procedures specified for situations such as this. I believe that they call for computer control of the ship while the pilot rests." "Computer control unfeasible during emergency situation." He should know that. "Then perhaps you could use the engine thrust to lift us to a safer pressure and afterward take your rest." "Suggestion unfeasible." Speer: "He's withdrawing more and more." "He'S becoming part of the computer," Bromley says. He's talking nonsense But his voice sounds strangely hushed, no longer raving. "What can we do about it?"' asks Ludongo. VI trol the ship. They can't get to the flight deck because the hatch is being closed and dogged down. There. They need the ship. But the ship doesn't need them. Turn off the intercom and stop their faces and voices from interfering with the ship's performance. Displays parading now. Graphs and charts, pretty yellow curves on black backgrounds, multi-colored bars creeping across white grid lines -- all of them edging toward red lines, danger zones. Lifesupport Systems, electrical power drain, navigation, control, propulsion reserve, sensors are all getting weaker. Sinking deeper. Medical monitor shows Voronov completely stable. Heart rate, breathing rate, metabolic, rate, alpha rhythm -- all zero. ED. Display it. Insert stabilizer history in ship's log under prime priority. Important to make them realize what happened for mission analysis. Generate a plot showing how much height would be gained by using engine thrust to counteract stabilizer failure. Useless. Curve doesn't even reach ocean surface. Burn out engine without getting above surface and the stabilizer will nose ship back into depths. Check the recorder. Is it ready for separation? And the rest of the recorder system? All. major mission objective are met if the recorder gets back to the orbiting ships. Good. Mission objectives will be met despite stabilizer malfunction and hull failure. Crew incapacitated. Cannot be contacted. No rest period. Captain incapacitated. No other pilot available. Guess it won't hurt anything. Tired... how much time to hull failure? is P -- IwcimdHdy Inf r -- tfngf Pkn Anthony    Itooc Asimov # o  o o o L. Sprogy# d Cmiwp...T -- ry Carr  John ChHstophor... Philip K. Dick.  Horton BRton   W humor... Jock  John Hoy don Ho word...Loo P. KoNoy.Doon R. Koontz... Anno M cCo ff roy . R ich -- I Moorcock  .  Aloxol Ponshln... Mock Roynolds .  . IW Ro tslor... Normon Splnrod...Bob Tockor... Horry Womor, Jr...Tod Whlto o o o  pprfntfmtMWyffyrg... A WO wtif  d H or ond p wMlhtr Hdwrd L Qii do. HU ttiinf. OH -- r P.O.Box #I # I -- Disconnecting from active ship control. Will reconnect in one hour. If no reconnection is initiated in one hour, sound yellow alert. Get nutrient tube. Last meal. Check sensors. Completely empty but there, nothing around us. Maybe we're too deep for the whales now... Sleepy. What difference will a dream make at this stage? How long? controls now. How much time to hull failure? Wait, that's wrong. But before I went to sleep it was one hour, thirty-five. Been asleep fifty minutes, so we should have only forty-five minutes to failure, not fifty-five. Showme! Damn, it did level off a bit. But now it's getting as steep as ever. IF Why? Not now. I'm thinking. Damn missionobjective fourteen! Oh -- okay. I'll think while I talk. I -- it was the same dream. I saw Marlene die again. Only this time I recognized where it happened. I was in my tank, watching her booster launch on the TV screen in my compartment. I had asked to go to the launch but they would not risk letting any of us out of the water, even in special pressure suits. Marlene was lifting off for rendezvous with the starship. He was already aboard, waiting in orbit for her, waiting to go with her to Sirius. Her booster malfunctioned. It exploded on the pad, I guess. And then -- somehow I was standing there at the pad, naked. I could feel the heat from the flames on my skin. The smoke' from the explosion was swirling all around. You could hear alarm sirens and people shouting. Somebody -- it was Bromley! He was dressed in the admiral's uniform and shouting at me above all the noise. It's your fault -- you killed her... I'm cold -- God, I feel cold. I tried to tell him it wasn't true, that I had nothing to do with it -- but the dream changed, shifted. I was back in that stupid office with that fat civilian telling me I had been turned down for the star missions. I'm sorry. There are just so many berths on the starships, and we had to take the absolute cream of the crop. But there will be other missions... I'll be too old for the next round of star flights. By the time they come back from these first missions and the next round starts I'll be an old man... Yes, but you're still young enough to perform a vital job for us. But Speer's younger than I am, I said. Which was crazy, because, at that point in reality I had not yet even met Speer. ' I don't want to talk to them. They're afraid to die. Everybody dies but they don't want to face it. Voronov died and Marlene died and I'm going to die soon. Maybe it is my fault. she leveled off while I was asleep and disconnected. Now she's nosing down again. Give me the record of the stabilizer control settings for the past hour and a half. Manual settings and automatic. Okay, I'll answer it. Speer's face. He must be right on top of the camera. Sick bay couch behind him. Empty now. "What is it?" I asked him. He looks surprised that I answered him. "Uh -- we've been trying to get through to you." "You're talking to me now. What is it?" "The captain -- " "I know about it." "We're all in bad shape. Ling's unconscious. It's very hard to breathe -- hard even to move around. A lot of pain -- bad -- " "Hold it, I'll get back, to you," I tell Speer. Look at the automatic control setting. There's the one-degree nose-down pattern, with the automatics trying to correct. But the only time they did any good was while I was asleep. Which means -- check, the manual "settings -- Holy hell -- It's been me! The manual controls have been depressed one degree all this time. It's been me. I've been nosing us Damned stupid computer! Why didn't you tell me I had the manual controls set down? "Speer, get up here fast -- " Disconnecting from ship controls. Let the automatics take over. I've been the weak link in the system. No wonder the computer couldn't find a malfunction. The system was working perfectly -- the pilot was malfunctioning. "I can't get the hatch open," Speer says. Undog it. Okay, here he is, floating in and hovering alongside Voronov's couch, his face lined, eyes sunken. "Get into the captain's couch," I tell Speer. "Stay with me. Don't leave me alone. I think we can get out of this but I can't risk being alone up here." He looks scared but he does it. Set stabilizer and all controls to return trajectory. Follow minimum energy course. IF is one of the world's most famous science-fiction writers. He has also written books on astronomy, anatomy, robots, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, words, the Greek myths, and the Bible. His new book -- #th in a long line of best sellers -- contains selections from the first #. opus no Asimov's own vast enthusiasm for whatever subject he is tackling immediately infects the reader with a spirit of intellectual adventure. pany of a warm, ebullient, very human being who is -- in fact -- a genius. At your bookstore  # Okay, execute. And show me all I try to explain to Speer what systems performances. happened. He listens without sayIt looks good. Power, propul"I guess I blamed myself for sion, hull pressure -- we're rising! Marlene's death," I tell him. "I "We're pulling out of it," I tell guess I unconsciously wanted to Speer. "We'll be all right." join her -- or punish myself. SomeLudongo heard it over the interthing like that." com. "Thank all the gods of "But how could you blame Earth!" yourself for an accident? If the I see my mouth grinning, booster exploded -- how could it "Bromley's got nothing to say?" be your fault?" "We had to put him under Ludongo breaks in, "What sedation," Speer answers. booster exploded? There were no accidents among the star missions. All the ships took off on schedule. I have a friend on the Sirius mission; they didn't lose anyone in an accident." "You're wrong -- I saw it -- In the dream I keep seeing it again -- the noise and the flame and the smoke." "There were no accidents," Ludongo insists. Could it have been just a normal lift-off I was watching? The booster rising up and out of the smoke, the flame coming from normal rocket exhaust? "The announcer -- I remembejr now. They even showed telescope pictures of the booster orbiting with the starship. You're right -- it didn't explode." "Then why did you think she was dead?" Ludongo asks. The answer comes immediately. "She is dead. For me she's dead. By the time she comes back from Sirius, I'll be past sixty years old. She'll be about thirty-five. I've lost her for good -- remember now locking my mind on the fact that she's dead -- " Speer: "But your dreams kept forcing you to look at the situation. They were trying to make you -- well, unlock." "But I didn't want to dream." "Of course. You wanted to hide inside the ship, in the computer. You wanted to stop being human -- because that's painful. But your dreams wouldn't let you do it." "But in the meantime the captain -- " Speer shrugs. "The captain's safely stored in the cryogenic locker. When we get back to Earth we can revive him and make him good as new." Voronov's not dead? But Marlene is -- she really is. But I want to live. I'm going to get back to that beautiful blue planet, get rid of these damned gills and breathe sweet air again. "Okay. Back to work. Doc, you'd better check Ling and Bromley, see if they're okay. Then come back here. Dr. Ludongo, might be a good idea to strap down. There'll be turbulence when we get closer to the surface and even more in the atmosphere." Ludongo nods into the intercom camera. Speer pulls himself out of the captain's couch and goes aft. Give me a complete systems check. Turbulence coming up. But we'll get through it. She's a good ship. I can reconnect with the controls now -- it'll be okay. We'll get through the clouds and back home again. It'll be good to be able to look at the stars again.  IF If you could get anyone you wanted on tape -- would you? #? 'NSlW' y . tM if  ;  tax X wMJfj in so ebullient a mood. His tiny eyes sparkled. His normally pale cheeks were aglow with color and his wispy beard fluttered like a royal pennant. "You've won the state lottery?" I cried. He shook his head. His federal research grants had been sharply slashed and he had taken to pasting lottery tickets on the walls of his laboratory for all visitors to see. "It's not that at all," growled Duckworth. "I've come up with a new idea and it has exciting possibilities." He drew up a rickety laboratory stool and gingerly lowered his rump 'as he began to' sketch out penciled squares on a lined yellow pad. "I can't make it' out," I said, staring at the irregular lines. "All a matter of recordings," said Duckworth. "To take a simple example, consider sound. We've captured the analogue of sound waves on disks, then on wire -- and currently on magnetic tape." I nodded. "And in the case of light," I said, "we've recorded it on glass plates, then film and now on photochromic materials." "That's the point," said Duckworth. "And by use of the hologram we can lock up interference patterns into a tiny space, which can be used to reconstitute a threedimensional image at some other time." "Well, that takes care of sound and light," I said. "There's still taste, touch and smell." Duckworth leaned forward in a conspiratorial manner. "And feeling," he added. "Feeling?" "The full emotional impact of an event, once experienced, just as it happened to you," said Duckworth. "Just imagine what it would be like to relive an exquisite, once-in-a-lifetime experience and savor once again all its joys. It would mean that one could transform the life ofveiy invalid, every Old man, every middle-aged couple that's lost the freshness of the honeymoon era." "You're an incurable romantic," I said. "But I get. your, point. The great part of living is made up of tedium, trials and tribulations. The high spots are quite rare." "But they don't have to be," said Duckworth. "I have worked out a way of locking them up, ready to be recaptured and relived at will over and over again," My jaw dropped. "If . you have," I said, "then you've outdone yourself. It sounds utterly impossible to me;" "So would holography have seemed a hundred years ago," said Duckworth. He rose from his stool suddenly. It clattered to the floor. IF "Come along," he said, "and I'll show you what I mean." corridor to his animal room, unbuttoned lab coat fluttering around him. I followed warily. I had many a bump and bruise to show from iron test-tube stands and dismantled fraction collectors that were set about in unlikely places. Duckworth flipped on the main light switch and pointed exultantly at six small cages set on a table in the middle of the room. Each one held a single white rat. He stroked his beard reflectively"I suppose I ought to give you some preliminary information," he muttered to himself. "Please." "Look at it thfe way," said the great biochemist. "The internal effects of a real-life experience on a sentient being must affect all the senses. Somewhere in the nervous system is a terminal cell or set of cells for each peripheral receptor. The pathways may not be easy to find. Butvin these terminal cells every split second of experience is electrochemically recorded and stored sequentially. We can all, by means of a crude memory recall, relive very approximately some past experience. The reason for the roughness of the recall is that the record of the experience is cluttered over by the interfering effects of innumerable previous experiences and the hash of succeeding events. Besides, even without interference, there would be some degeneration in the record as time went by." "I can accept your hypothesis," I said. "But how can you possibly retrieve the information of these records, particularly in the correct sequence." Duckworth's eyes ' began to gleam again. "First I freeze the records," he said. "In that way there can be no loss of information. And then I retrieye every bit of data in proper sequence." I threw up my hands. "How?" . "By combining old and new techniques," said Duckworth. "For many years we've been able to map cortical areas in the mammalian brain which correspond to various sensory inputs. Into the brain of each one of these rats I'Ve implanted thousands of tiny integrated circuits, charge-sensitive oscillators. Local temperature differences are sufficient to provide the necessary energy to power these oscillators, each of which operates at a different carrier frequency. The charge pattern variations, both in amplitude and time, are telemetered to my special purpose receiver-computer. It receives the information just as it comes, converts it to binary . form and stores it on magnetic tape." "Can your little implanted oscillator receive information as well as transmit?" "You've caught on," said Duckworth. "By playing back the stored pattern in the proper sequence," I said, "you restimulate the appropriate sites of the cortex and the animal re-experiences every sensation as he once felt it." "Bravo," said Duckworth. "That's just what I've done with these rats. I can make each one salivate as though he were eating. I can send him into paroxysms of terror or even arouse him sexually, depending on which of his experiences I play back." "Will one animal respond to another's recordings?" "In principle it can be done," said Duckwortfy. "But it would require the utmost care in matching up corresponding sites." 'I fixed my eyes on his. "Are you thinking of trying out this scheme on a human being?" Duckworth shrugged. "I've been toying with the idea," he admitted. "But choosing and convincing the subject might be a ticklish matter. There are surgical 'risks." "To put it mildly," I said. I backed away from him. "Don't consider me," I warned. "I cherish some of the finer moments of my bygone past -- but not that much." . "I know," said Duckworth. "I suspect that anyone I'd approach would react the same way. And yet the rewards could be so great. I wonder if I've been wasting my time?" "You haven't," I assured him. "Publish your results and you'll  see. phetic my remarks were. Duckworth's sober and rather stodgy account of his method of recording sensations appeared first in an eminent scientific journal. I expected him to get a few crackpot responses but I had totally underestimated the number. "I've been flooded with thousands of nutty requests from autoeroticists," said Duckworth wearily. He had sidled into.the Computer Laboratory where I was debugging a new program to be used in his system. I shook my head sadly. ".It's an unfortunate truism that every nut in the world is'attracted by this kind of scheme." "But some of these letters are beyond belief," said Duckworth. "And I thought I was a manabout-town!" He waved a heavily embossed piece of stationery at me. "This one is from the Nazir of Waddam. I've known him for years. Cap you guess what . he wants?" "I know what he wants," I said. "He asks you to record all his current amatory exploits in his harem, for replaying in his old age." IF "How did you guess?" said Duckworth. He was awestruck by my prescience. I shrugged off the question. It had been purely a matter of empathy. I had simply put myself in the Nazir's place. T HE demented and oddball amateurs posed one type of problem but each one could be dealt with. The serious difficulties arose when the professionals appeared on the scene like a swarm of locusts. Each one had a surefire deal in mind and talked in large amounts of dollars. I was afraid that Duckworth might be tempted. Maintaining his research on inadequate funds was wearing him out. And his professional salary was quite modest. But he withstood all temptations, direct and oblique. One chap persevered however. He was unstoppable, loquacious and imaginative. His name was HartFelsen, a short stout man in his late forties, wearing a floppy straw hat in the manner of vintage Sidney Greenstreet films. His clothes were of first quality, suggesting distinguished Saville Row tailors, but his bulging form inserted wrinkles everywhere. Felsen appeared at the university and made his first approach to Duckworth through the head of the chemistry department. After being rebuffed he tried the dean's office and finally appealed to President Hinkle, all to no avail. Felsen remained undiscouraged. To supplement his research funds Duckworth reluctantly decided to take on some consultation work for one of the more reputable drug houses. Sometimes these meetings took the form of a working luncheon. With consummate artistry Felsen contrived to wangle an invitation to one of these luncheons. He began to chat with Duckworth on the decline in the quality of modern wines and drew a frosty blank. But a chance sally on the inferior workmanship of new Bunsen burners drew a warm response. A little later Felsen broached the subject of Duckworth's recent paper and revealed an amazingly thorough understanding of what was involved. Duckworth was impressed with the acuity of his observations. "Could this system be fabricated in portable packages?" asked Felsen. "It's all portable now," said Duckworth. "The receiver-computer weighs under ten ounces, batteries included." Felsen licked his lips. "Dr. Duckworth," he said, trying vainly to lean forward against the inertia of his waistline. "Might it be possible for one person to respond to another's recordings?" "You may recall," said Duckworth, "that in my paper I discussed this very point. I stated that it would require very careful mapping of the proper cortical sites in each individual to make certain of an exact correspondence." "Of course," said Felsen, "how stupid of me to forget." But his eyes glowed and he ate voraciously thereafter. at Duckworth's laboratory with a ten-page proposal and a hand. Duckworth refused to read either one. 'Don't be foolish," said Felsen. "You could become completely independent of government grants and do whatever you wanted to do. Besides, there's more than money at stake here. You know what pleasure people get from audio recordings. Just picture the reaction to a catalogue of different joyous experiences; We could offer the experiences of presidents, surgeons, movie stars, courtesans. The potential for exploration, stimulation and excitement is unlimited and the monetary rewards incalculable." "It's not what I orginally had in mind," said Duckworth glumly. "It would lie a gross perversion of my basic idea." Felsen removed his straw hat and fanned his perspiring florid cheeks. "Let's forget individual pleasures and cash rewards," he said. "Let's think in grander terms. What about One World At Peace? Just think what it might mean if, for the first time, an American president could actually experience the feelings of a Russian premier and vice versa. Two otherwise hostile peoples could interchange vital life experiences with one another. For the first time in the history of mankind a real path to permanent peace between nations might be in our grasp." Duckworth was shaken but only momentarily. "It sounds good," he said, "too good. I don't believe the idea could ever be implemented. Not only two hostile individuals but two hostile nations would have to agree to submit wholesale to very delicate brain surgery to. make it all possible. If these people can't agree now on less substantive matters, how could we ever get agreement on your proposals?" "Nations have traded hostages before this," said Felsen. "This scheme would simply be another variation on the hostage idea. Give it a chance, Duckworth. Give generations yet unborn a chance." Duckworth was pale. "No," he said. "I'm not interested in your idea." And that, he thought, ended that. It seemed to, although for days thereafter Duckworth swore that he was being tailed in the streets and even oh the campus. He mainIF tained that olive-skinned men bad been lurking about, some in the burnous of the Middle East. Once, as I walked at his side, he nudged me and gestured at, a hornyhanded laborer type who walked stolidly behind me, his trouser cuff s white with cement dust. "See what I mean?" hissed Duckworth. He moved his elbow knowingly once again at the laborer. "He looks more Italian to me than Near-Eastern," I said. "You're becoming absolutely paranoid." . My triumph was complete when the laborer joined a construction crew working on the new south campus building. Duckworth looked a bit sheepish, then he sighed. "Even paranoids have enemies," he said. T EN days later Felsen accosted us in the computer laboratory. Duckworth stiffened as Felsen waved a puffy hand in greeting. "Dr. Duckworth," he ;said warmly. "You've passed the test." "What test?" snarled Duckworth. "Let me explain," said Felsen. "I am really an emissary from your old friend, the Nazir of Waddam. His remembrances of your integrity, your courage and your genius have lingered with him over the years. But he wasn't quite certain that your character was unchanged -- " "He hasn't changed much," said Duckworth. "I have a letter from him suggesting an erotic use of my recording system." "I know," said Felsen, "that was part of the test, believe me. But now we can dispense with all pretense and get down to the heart of the matter. The Nazir wants you to come to Waddam. He has a most important proposition to put to you. He will pay generously." "I'm too busy at the moment," said Duckworth. "I can't spare the time." "Too busy? Can't spare the time? Is this what you say to the man who offered you refuge in your time of need?" He was alluding of course to Duckworth's flight when the news had broken years earlier about his macromolecule. Duckworth just tugged at his beard reflectively. "I have responsibilities here," he said. "Graduate students, laboratory assistants, grant renewal requests. Without my presence the whole program here might go down the drain." "Splendid," said Felsen. "I'm sure your laboratory would benefit from a large grant-in-aid from the government of Waddam with no strings attached." "It sure would," I interjected. Felsen beamed at me warmly. "And," he added, "the Nazir has also requested the presence of your friend. We feel that his computer experience will bp of great help in our project. The consultant's fee will be quite handsome." A ND so it was that Duckworth and I were flown to Waddam in the luxuriously mounted private jet of the Nazir. The Nazir was at the airport in person to greet us. He embraced Duckworth, his cheeks wet with tears. Duckworth stepped back out of his arms. "You've forgiven me about the matter of the harem?" he said. The Nazir waved his hands effusively. "It never happened," he said grandly. At this point I was introduced to the Nazir and received a rather perfunctory handshake. The Nazir was a tall man whose hawklike proboscis seemed to dwarf even Duckworth's magnificent beak. He wore the long flowing robes of his hereditary office and his fingers were completely covered with rings set with enormous diamonds, rubies and emeralds. I thought it was a vulgar display and said so to Duckworth. "It's all a matter of taste," said Duckworth. "Personally, I think they're colorful." We were escorted into the airconditioned Cadillac of the Nazir and whisked to his palace, some fifteen miles from the airport. It was a stunning edifice in alabaster white, with cunningly fashioned minarets, winding stairways and limpid pools everywhere. The East Wing was under heavy guard. "The harem," muttered Duckworth. After a lavish dinner that set my gall bladder into violent reprisals, the Nazir, with Felsen at his elbow, put his proposal to Duckworth. "I am a humane man as you know, Duckworth. I abhor violence and bloodshed." Duckworth looked skeptical but said nothing. "After learning of your scientific publication from Mr. Felsen here," resumed the Nazir, "I conceived of a magnificent plan to end turmoil, disruption and misery in my country." Duckworth leaned forward. "Then you're going to share some of your oil royalties with the people? Congratulations," said Duckworth warmly. Felsen coughed and studied the end of his five-dollar cigar. The Nazir looked alarmed. "Heavens no," he said. "I have a much less sordid plan to offer. As I see it, the rift that exists between me and my people is due to a lack of mutual understanding. They think that my life is simply one of sybaritic luxury. They cannot conceive of the preparations, the planning,, the administrative details, in short, the aggravation I go through. I want to end all that." Felsen puffed smoke. IF "If I may interrupt. Your Highness?" he said deferentially. The Nazir oodded. "What his Highness wishes to say is that in the interest of his to have the necessary surgery to implant your transducers in his cortex. The leader of the revolutionaries, a fiercely stubborn man now in custody, will undergo the same operation, r You gentlemen will thereupon record the emotions and frustrations of the Nazir during a typical morning'swork. This recording will be transmitted over and over to the brain of our revolutionary friend. He will then be able to communicate to his comrades the terrible hardship of being the Nazir." "All a matter #f empathy," said Duckworth. The Nazir beamed. "Duckworth," he said, "you're every bit as understanding as ever." "You bet," said Duckworth. "And I supposeyou hadn't thought of recording your harem exploits afterward?" "To be honest," said the Nazir, "I had. But that was a secondary benefit. What your military industrialists refer to as 'spinoff.' " ! "Well, my answer is no," said Duckworth tartly. "I'll have no part of this outrageous scheme. Instead of dealing honestly with your people, you want to trick them." . "If I dealt honestly with this scoundrel of a revolutionary," said the Nazir, "I'd boil him in oil. But I want to use a modern, humane approach." "The brain surgery is difficult," said Duckworth. "The physical risks may be great. I'd have to tutor a surgeon on every single step of the procedure. Is it worth all this to you?" "My dear Duckworth," said the Nazir. "I'm sitting on a revolutionary volcano that's ready to erupt 'momentarily. If my enemies win, it will cost me my oil, my palace, my life, even my harem. If your scheme should work it would be worth every bit of the risk.eiftailed. Besides, if anything goes wrong with the operation -- you and your friend would join me in the Gardens of Allah." "Nonsense," said Felsen soothingly. "Dr. Duckworth is too great a scientist for any such slips to occur. And who knows, we may have the answer to upheavals the world over. Think of it, Duckworth. You will personally usher And if you're still wavering -- let me point out that we have the most up-to-date, fully equipped torture chamber in the Near East." I turned to Duckworth. "What do we do?" "We have no choice," he said glumly.  I was disappointed in my friend but I knew the extreme pressure he was undergoing. "Okay then' I said. "I'll help you. But only because I'm a coward." At these words he clapped his hands and an exquisite coffee liqueur was brought forward by a turbaned lackey. Handcut emerald goblets were filled and passed around. "To my people," said the Nazir, his voice throbbing. We all drank somberly to the health of that harassed population. T WO of the world's finest neurosurgeons were flown in and teaching seminars were scheduled with Duckworth. My friend spent considerable time in briefing them on the special skills and problems involved in the implanting and on the absolute necessity for sobriety. As expected, the first operation was to be carried out on the revolutionary. Then, if all went well, the Nazir would risk his royal head. Despite careful and intense preparation the first operation was touch and go. Once Duckworth became enraged and threatened to take a scalpel to the skull of one of the surgeons. The offer seemed to have a salutary effect in bracing the man's nerve and the implanting was finally and successfully concluded. Ten days later, when the healing process was almost completed and no neurophysiological damage was apparent, the Nazir took a deep breath and went under the knife. This time, to my intense relief, the performance went more smoothly. When the Nazir had completely recovered we  were promptly summoned to his royal chambers. "I feel absolutely in the pink, Duckworth," he said. "I'm ready to proceed." Duckworth bowed: "So are we," he said quietly. "However, it would be dangerous to start prematurely. I'd like to carry out tests on both of you to make sure that the implants are receiving and transmitting properly." The Nazir insisted, purely as a precaution, on his first recording being taken that night at the harem. "In the morning," he added, "you can record my reactions to the rigors of the job." Even Duckworth was startled at the superb quality of the recordings and the very low noise level. The following day he repeated his tests on the captive revolutionary with equal success. Felsen hovered about all the time, ostensibly to satisfy his curiosity but in actuality to keep an eye on us. Th? Nazir, however, was impatient with all the delays. "I want the recordings played back on this fellow," he said. "And at once. When we are satisfied that they have taken hold he wjll be inIF terviewed on our national television network and then released." T HE playbacks were run off without a hitch. The rebel leader was carefully interrogated by the Nazir's psychiatric staff. "This man really believes," they chorused. "He is not shamming." ;  And indeed, on the Waddam TV network, he articulated his total empathy for what the Nazir went through daily in governing the country. He expatiated at great length on the mind-boggling problems of administering this little oil-soaked country. Duckworth was sitting off to one side, ouit of sight of the camera. "Then you wouldn't change places with the Nazir?" he called out. The revolutionary sprang to his feet. "You bet I would!" he cried. "For the kind of harem the Nazir has -- anything would be bearable."   been cut off the air, Duckworth and I were placed in the same dungeon. "What happened out there?" I asked. "I can't understand it." "I played two recordings sequentially," said Duckworth. "The first, under the guise of test runs, was a playback of the Nazir's night at the harem. The second was the administrative morning at the royal desk." "I'm proud of you," I said. "But it may mean curtains for us." "No it won't," snapped Duckworth. "The Nazir is a proud man and the last thing he'd want is publicity on this qiatter. He'll let us go if we pledge secrecy." "And our generous consultation fees?" "Don't push things too far," said Duckworth. And we didn't. Back in the States I was tempted to initiate a whopper of a lawsuit but I held down my baser instincts. Duckworth was less restrained. I barged into his office and found him in the act of studying the university major medical contract. "Anything wrong?" I said. "Not yet," said Duckworth noncommittally. "Are you contemplating  surgery?" Duckworth sighed. "I haven't yet made up my mind," he said. He pulled out a desk drawer and removed a five-inch reel of magnetic tape. "The harem recording of the Nazir," he said wistfully. We looked into each other's eyes for a meaningful moment. I coughed. "How extensive is our coverage?" I asked.  Prez was more than human. He could even be inhuman! T he lovely blonde threw her paper dress into the deep fireplace and stood back, watching it burn, her slender hands hooked under trim buttocks. "That's cozy, isn't it?" she said over her shoulder. "There's something especially pleasant about clothes burning on a chill winter day, isn't there?" She spun, bounded over the thick white rug and grabbed up the trousers Norbert Penner had just dropped. These she bundled and heaved into the flames. "Hey, Benny," said Penner, half out of his all-season underwear. "Those aren't paper." The girl shrugged. "You're not abandoned enough, Norby. No, don't frown. I love you. But I bet you're thinking of what that pair of pants cost." "Fifty-two dollars." Penner was a tall lanky young man, just twenty eight years old, with hair colored like sand and a slight gap between his upper front teeth. Benny held her hands to the fire. "Relax, relax." "They're going to smoke." Penner was out of his underwear. He kicked it carefully into a safe corner of the big beam-ceiling room. "Burning trousers smoke like the devil." "You worry too much, Norby," said the girl. "You're my guest, aren't you? We have this whole sixteen-room, three-bath house entirely to ourselves. We have ninety-six acres of beautiful earlywinter, rural Connecticut outside. You can stay here from now till spring. Relax. Thousands of people come hundreds of miles just to spend a few days in New England." "They don't get their pants set on fire." "You never know. All people aren't as conservative as you are." She coughed quietly as smutty smoke came rolling slowly out of the white stone fireplace. "See?" Penner wandered over to a box window and looked out at the rolling grounds. Benny said, "I have the notion you don't really love me at all, Norby. I don't think you want to make love to me right now, even. You aren't in the mood, are you?" "I was until you set my pants on fire." "That's an excuse, isn't it?" She held out her arms, a gesture he caught out of the corner of his eye. "Let's forget the fire incident, Norby. Come here now, won't you?" Penner watched a maple leaf spin to the ground. He turned around and walked to the girl. "You're beautiful." "Yes. Thank you," answered Benny, catching him with one hand around the neck and one on his left side ribs. "But really my physical body is not half as beautiful as my inner being." She rested her head on his bare chest. "One's inner being is what counts, don't you think?" "Urn." "That's how Defrocked Bishop Dix puts it in Spirit Mediator -- Talking To The Departed In The Technological Age. I'm aware you don't completely agree with Defrocked Bishop Dix but you must see it's one's inner being that counts most. Don't you think?" "I think," said Pehner, gently backing her toward a zebrastriped couch, "there are times to talk and times to shut up." He gently swung the now silent Benny off her feet and placed her on the long couch. He kneeled on the soft rug, bent and kissed her right hand, which was peaked over her navel. "Benny," he said. A wet nose pressed into his right buttock. Hot breath followed. "Where'd you hide the chow, peckerwood?" Penner bounded upward, spinning in the air, landing facing the dog. "Go away -- shoo." The dog, a medium-size and sha ggy black mutt, snorted. "Never mind, peckerwood: Benny,' there's no food for me in the kitchen. The robot dispenser just rattles and retches when I push the chow button. Somebody forget to load the machine." Thedog's blue-red tongue flapped and he panted. Benny sat up and stroked the old dog's head. "Now, Prez, didn't we tell you not to barge in." "The door was open," said the dog. His left eye flared for an instant. It was made of vinyl. "I respect privacy, even that of peckerwoods. The door, however, was open." Penner grunted suddenly, hopped, kicked the side of the dog. The animal made a clunking sound and Penner howled. "Ow -- ow -- " "You kicked his metal side," said Benny. "Come on. Let's not have my two favorite people squabble." "He's not a person," said Penner. "He's a mongrel dog." "Peckerwood," said Prez. "I'll kick the live side of your tail in a minute," said Penner! He grimaced, went and found his underwear. "You freak of science." Prez licked Benny's knee. "How much longer you going to be v Benny." T HE girl smiled down at the old dog. "Prez, you trot back to your nice rumpus room and we'll feed you soon;' I "Don't patronize me," the dog told her. "You and your folks helped turn me into a modern miracle. You financed it. I'm as bright as the average ten-year-old boy now." "Miracle," said Penner, stomping back into his clothes. "Every other bored matron down in Westport has a cybernetic poodle. Sentimental. Instead of letting the damn animals die of old age they IF replace their old parts with synthetics." "You'd like to turn me over to a vivisectionist," said the dog, showing its teeth. Half of them were plastic. "A scrap yard." "At least I earn my keep. I'm not some unemployed freeloader." "Listen, I worked six damn years in Manhattan," Penner shouted at the shaggy dog. "I was editor-in-chief of Barrium  Sons for four of those damn years. I'm the guy who bought the Lupoff papers and got them in shape for publication. They gave old Lupoff the damn Nobel Prize. So now I'm taking some time off to find myself again." "If you want to find yourself," said the dog, "you're looking in the wrong neighborhood. You're out of your class, peckerwood." Penner tugged on one shoe and limped over to kick Prez. The old dog yelped. Penner said, "Damn it, Benny. Why did you have to have him fixed to talk?" "It only cost five thousand extra," said Benny. "When they put in the vinyl larynx Dad said we might as well go first cabin." She smiled gently up at Penner. "Norby, relax. I've explained about Prez. It is sentimental, isn't it? Still he's been my dog since I was just a little girl." "Two years and three months old," said Prez. "Cute as a bug's rear you were." "We can certainly afford to have him maintained," said Benny. "Imagine, Norby. Prez is well past twenty and he's healthier and brighter than he ever was. And I've had him for over twenty years. Ever since -- " "August, nineteen-eighty-seven," said the dog. "And I'm going to live a long time beyond this decade. I'm even going to be around in the twenty-twenties, peckerwood." "Even three years is a long time." Penner put on his other shoe and sat down in a black leather lounging chair. "Is that a threat?" asked the dog. "I know you'd like to do me in, peckerwood." Benny said, "Relax, Prez," The dog flicked his short tail. Music box music began coming out of him, a gentle lullaby. "Remember this, Benny?" "Of course." She patted the dog, smiled across at Penner. "He has two thousand music tapes, miniaturized, built into his stomach." "I know," said Penner. "They named me after the noted jazz man, Lester Young," said the dog. "His nickname was Prez, short for the President. Because he was the best of the saxophone players of his day, musicians agreed." Benny lifted the dog and carried him to the doorway. He was # ? pjaying One O'clock Jump when she set him out on the parquet. ner was a quarter of a mile from the rambling two-story house the next morning. He was leaning against the mail-box pole, watching the sky. The air suddenly clicked colder and flakes of snow hit his cheeks. The US Mai 'copter sounded at the same time and Penner spotted it, rising up from the Pfeiffer estate a half-mile down the country road. The road was called Maitjand-Scott Lane, named for Benny's great-grandfather, the one who had founded the family woolen mills. The 'copter whirred nearer and dropped, hovering. When it was a hundred feet above Penner' s head a ten-yearold boy in a, jumpsuit climbed down out of it on a dangling rope ladder. "Twenty-six cents postage due," said the boy. "Who's the package for?" "Prez, as usu#l." "We don't want it." "But it's fragile, it says. All the way from Algiers." The boy came down the ladder, dropped to the ground. He held the small package in one hand, a bundle of letters in the other. "That Prez sure has a lot of pen pals. My dad, you know Floyd Dell up in the ship, he says all the time Prez is sure some dog. To have all these pen friends around the world. I wrote to a kid in Newfoundland last year but nothing came of it." Penner took the letters. "Send that other thing back to Algiers." "We're obliged to deliver it." "Oh, okay." Penner hooked a finger into his change pocket and gave the boy some coins. The boy turned over the package and caught the swinging ladder. "This snow. We just recently moved here from California. This is snow all right. I never saw any except in books. My father says we're going back to California even if it is full of goofs. He forgot it was so cold in Connecticut. How do you feel. You're a stranger, too?" "New York isn't that much different." He gave the. boy's left foot a boost. The postman hung his head out of the cabin. "That's some screwball dog you folks have. I've dealt with weirdies from coast to coast and experienced a lot of webfoots and goofs, but your dog there he must be the prince of the screwballs. What's he write to I all these people about?" "Jazz." "Jazz? Oh, sure, I remember that. Black people used to play it back a half-century ago." Penner nodded and started IF back toward the house. He was soon among trees -- the grounds were thick with maples and pines. The snow was coming straight now, faster. He casually flipped the Algiers package off into the brush. A bluejay looked up from a sparse branch. A slim bare arm extended from the partly open front door as he approached. "Here, warm up." Penner took the hot rum drink from Benny, dropped the mail on a metal-legged hall table. "Why are you naked?" "Don't be always so inquisitive." "You were clothed at breakfast, as I recall." "Well," said the girl, undoing the scarlet ribbon in her hair. "I have to leave in an hour and I thought to spend my last hour with you, Norby. Romantically." "Leaving?" "I got a call from Dad." "Your father?" "That's him. We call him Dad. A sentimental touch." "I meant, what does he have to do with your leaving?" "He's in Switzerland." "Yes, I know that, too. Which is why we have your whole place here to ourselves for the next six months." "A small emergency has come up," said Benny. "I have to pick up something in Amsterdam and take it to him in Switzerland." "You want to go alone?" Benny bit her lower lip, shook her head. "It's that I have to, Norby. Some of Dad's business ventures have to be carried on very quietly. I'll only be three or four days. I'm booked on a robot jet out of Kennedy II at five this afternoon." , . "Yoii already made a reservation?" "While I was taking off my clothes. Come on, finish your drink. We'll make love." . Penner set the mug aside. "It started snowing." "We'll make love inside then."  "I was only commenting on the weather, not complaining." He toqk her by the shoulders. Prez said from the other end of the hall, "Where's the mail, peck,erwood?" "Right here." He released the girl, snatched up letters, ap proached Prez. "Now you get into the kitchen or the rumpus room and attend to your mail. Don't bother us for an hour or I'll do something evil to you." "You're more open about your threats these days but I've suspected you for a long while," said the dog. "Right now, though, I just want to take care of my jazzbuff friends. Any packages?" "No." "Overdue. I'm expecting several. I'll have to call those peckerwoods at the post office." "Yes, do. They all like you." Penner returned to Benny and locked her up with him in the second downstairs guest room. T HE dining room was fully automatic. Alone at the head of the long, white-covered table Penner fussed with the control buttons. He got the six candles to flame, then poked the aperitif button. A slot at his Jeft hand slid open and a dubonnet jogged up. Sipping it, Penner flicked on the menu screen that was mounted on the wall. ' Prez hopped into the chair next to Penner. "Order some lean read meat," he suggested. "Back to your Quarters." "Relax, peckerwood. You heard what Benny said as she left. You're to look after the house and old Prez. So be nice." "You're not allowed on the chairs." "Okay, okay." ' The shaggy black dog hopped to the floor, wagging his tail: "Order the chow." "Nope. You go back to where you belong. I'll bring you some scraps later." Prez woofed disdainfully. "You ought to go back where you belong. Brooklyn Heights, wasn't it? Your idea of class." Penner didn't reply. "Nothing like this. Not on the salary Barnum  Sons paid." "I made twenty-five thousand a year." "Twenty thousand," said the dog. "I checked." "Oh? How?" "I have ways. I keep in touch." Prez sat on the hardwood, hit at his flank. "Fleas?" "No; my wiring is itching. This damn weather makes your wiring itch. Remember that when you get old and they start turning you into a cyborg." "Too bad you're sensitive to Cold, Prez." The dog rolled over and rubbed his shoulders into the smooth flooring. "I phoned the post-office and they insist they delivered one of my lost packages, peckerwood." "Say, that's right. I forgot to mention it," said Penner. "I dropped a littTe package out in the woods. I had my mind elsewhere." "You dropped it whereabouts?" "Ten feet or so from that old pump." "You can go fetch it now and we'll call it even." "Come off it, Prez. We're just the two of us now. You go." Thedog rocked on its back a few times, growling in his chest. "Okay, I'll go because I'm very anxious about my package. By the pump?" "Yes, to your left as you go toward the front gate." Prez trotted into the hall. PenIF ner followed, held the front door open. The dog headed into the heavy falling snow. The grounds were two feet thick with new snow and Prez sank in and left dark holes as he went. Penner slammed the front door, locked it. He ran through the rest of the house, locked doors, activated alt the electric window locks and burglar bolts. In the dining room he ordered a curry dinner. The first thing Prez did was scratch at the front door, then the back v .He barked, howled, shouted insults. Gale winds rose a little after ten and the sounds of the angry dog were muffled and lost. By the time Penner went to bed the snow was coming in blizzard strength. There was no sound at all from Prez. T HE breakfast-table radio said, "Present reports indicate all aboard the. Swiss-bound New World Airlines autosonic superjet were lost when it went down in the storm-tossed Atlantic. Among those listed as passengers on the den, the well-known investment broker, singer Merlo Benninger and Benny Maitland-Scott, lovely country-hopping daughter of the woolens tycoon... Penner put down his coffee cup. He swooped an arm across the table and twisted up the volume. The radio said, "Also said to be on the flight was former lightheavyweight champ. Kid... There was a crackling and the sound died. Penner hit the speaker grid with the heel of his hand. The little radio snapped, dislodged from its position on the table and fell. Penner ran to the living room and got the entertainment system warmed up. He flicked a toggle in the wall panel and the wall-size TV screen came alive. "This is a cockatoo, of course, boys and girls," explained the plump man in the scarlet band uniform and curly red wig. "Isn't he handsome, Mr. Crackerjacker?" "I'll say. Cap. Oops, he nipped a little chunk out of your thumb." "Son of a bitch," said the captain. Penner hit at another switch. The Secretary of Defense appeared. "I think we can level with each other, gentlemen. I have great respect for your committee and I say to you now in all honesty that we wouldn't drop anything like that on civilians." On the next station a Black man in a smock said, "Hello, Rick. Martin here with the weather picture. As you can see by the map our computer is drawing for us, we Connecticut residents are in for more of the same. That's right, snow and more snow. Looks like the worst blizzard since the j big one in nineteen-seventy-one." Behind Penner a voice asked, "What's the excitement?" "Prez -- " The floppy black dog was lolling in a flowered loveseat, "No hard feelings," said the dog, scratching at his ear with his hind foot. "I guess you simply didn't realize I got locked out last night. You sure couldn't have heard my howling with the storm raging." "How'd you get in?" "I know a few tricks, Electronics tricks, simple lock-picking," the dog told him. "You look unsettled." Penner said, "The news. The news just said Benny's robot jet crashed." Prez made an anguished whining sound. "Benny? No. Are you sure she was on the plane?" "Yes -- they gave her name." "There could be a mistake." "You're right, Prez. I'll call the damn airline." He strode to the phone on the round marble coffee table. He picked up the receiver. "Damn it." "What?" "Line's dead." "Happens during these blizzards. This isn't Manhattan or even the suburbs. Everything isn't underground yet in this neck of the woods. Trees fall over and disrupt the phone service." Penner was in the hall. That phone was dead, too. He went through the big house and checked all the phones. He returned to the hall and snatched open the closet. He had his hand on a plaid neck scarf when Benny called to him. "Norby. Norby, darling, where are you?" -- Walking backward three steps, his fingers trailing the woolen scarf, Penner said carefully, "Benny?" "Can you hear me? Oh, Norby, can you hear me across such a distance?" She seemed to be in the living room. Penner stepped there. "Benny, where are you?" "I'm not sure, Norby. This is all very strange, isn't it? What a pleasant surprise, though, to discover that Defrocked Bishop Dix is right," Her voice was coming from the dog. Penner's arms involuntarily rose and his hands flapped faintly. He dropped the scarf, began breathing through his mouth. "Benny, how in the hell did you get inside that damn dog?" Prez's eyes were' tightly closed and his mouth was barely open. "I'm in the -- well -- what Defrocked Bishop Dix calls the Other Reality, Norby." "Didn't you go to Switzerland?" "Oh, Norby, darling, you are slow on the uptake, aren't you? Norby, I'm dead." IF "Dead? No -- " "Yes. I'm here in the Other Reality now. But I can still talk to you sometimes. That'll be nice, won't it?" Penner blinked, shook his head, gingerly picked up the dog. "Benny, what are you saying?" "I'm communicating with you from over here, Norby, through the spirit media. Don't ask me how or why, darling, but the best medium for communicating with you seems to be poor old Prez' electronic parts." "Yes, but," said Penner. "Please stay there so I can talk to you, Norby. It's so strange here and I don't know anybody yet. Except for some of the people from the plane. You stay at the house until Dad can do something. And, Norby, I guess it's safe to tell you now I've mentioned you in my will." Penner was face to face with the old dog. "What's a girl twenty-two need a will for?" "It came in handy, didn't it? Now that I'm deceased and all. I just want you to know you'll be provided for. You and poor dear Prez." "I don't want to talk about that now, Benny." manage on my own for you, Norby. Is that going to be okay?" Penner dropped the dog. Prez said, "Ouch. What's the idea, peckerwood?" "Benny," called Penner. "Are you getting unsettled some more?' Prez asked. "Benny was just now talking to me. Through you, Prez. Didn't you hear it?" "No." The dog jumped back up on the loveseat and arranged himself. "That's sort of marvelous in a way. Bishop Dix turns out to've been right, huh?" "Bishop Dix. Defrocked Bishop Dix. He left the church." "I guess you'd have to with all those wacky ideas." "But it works, Prez. Benny can talk to me from -- wherever she is." The shaggy black dog scratched its ear. "I think I'll go out and sniff around in the woods." Penner said, "No. You stay right here." "I have to go to the john," the dog said. "I'll fix you up something in the rumpus room. You have to stay indoors. I don't want to risk you out in a blizzard. Benny will keep trying to get through." "Okay, I'll cooperate." The dog sniffed. "I'm hungry. Do you recall the lean red meat I alluded to last evening?" "Sure, I'll get you a nice little steak and put it out in your dish." "A big steak, peckerwood. And right here is where I'll eat it." Penner said after a moment,, "Okay, Prez." tric typewriter, Penner watched the swirling snow outside the conservatory windows. The snow was four feet high and the wind roared and whooped. "I thought you had a special dictating machine for your correspondence," he said to Prez. Prez was on a white leather sofa chair, worrying a steak bone. He paused to say, "I'm not in the mood for that. It's more fun to dictate to you. Benny would help me out once in a while, too. Great fun on stormy days. Now get typing." "A lot of fun -- being private secretary to a mongrel dog," said Penner. "What's that, peckerwood?" "Nothing." Penner had talked to Benny twice more since that first time yesterday. He'd decided it was worth putting up with Prez if he could keep in contact with the girl. "Go ahead." "Where was I?" " 'The. sidemen on that particular session, my dear Derik, were Dicky Wells, Benny Carter, Wayman Carver, Leon "Chu" Berry...' How many of these guys do you write to, Prez?" "More than' a hundred." The dog repositioned the bone with both front paws. "I'm in t,ouch with more than a hundred jazz buffs through out the world. We exchange letters, records, .tapes and other, sometimes exotip, memorabilia." "Exotic?" "The postal system is often very lax. We swap a few pills, a pinch of snuff now and then." "You're a junkie?" "No, I simply have a certain kind of scientific curiosity," replied the dog. "Let's get back to the letter at hand." When Penner had typed three more letters and put them in envelopes he said, "Enough for today." "Mail them now." "There's not likely to be a pickup today." "The post office will be open." "It's two miles away and we're still having a blizzard," He dropped the three letters down on the closed typewriter. "I'm expecting a couple of more packages, too." "I'll go after the thaw," the dog Said. "Today." "Don't get arrogant, Prez." "I'll go then." The dog, bone in mouth, jumped to the floor. "No you don't." "Then, you." Penner slowly inhaled and exhaled. "I'll give it a try. You stay inside and if Benny tries to contact me, explain." IF "Get a book of twelve-cent stamps while you're there." Prez trotted out of the room. front door of the house, stumbled through it. He fell over the hall rug, crashed against the mail table on his way down, dropping two letters, a magazine and three packages. His face was frosted and a tingling red color. He did a lopsided pushup and worked to a sitting position. He unwound the cold and soggy woolen muffler with his stiff wool mittened fingers.  "Norby, darling? Oh, my dearest, where are you?" called Benny's voice, "In a minute, in a minute," he yelled back, "Hold on." He grunted, tugged at his boots. These were slushy and dripped brown snow up his sleeves. He next rolled out of his snow coat. "Norby, areyou all right? Please talk to me. It's growing, harder to reach you from over here. Such an effort is required." , "I'm coming. I'm coming. I've got problems, too, Benny." He shed the rest of his outdoor clothes and went weaving into the living room. PreZ was on the floor near the magazine bin, on his back, feet up in the air. "Norby, is something wrong?" "I'm okay." Penner, squatting next to the dog, added: "Sometimes I wish you had worked out a better means of communication." "I don't have much choice. Listen, Norby, it would be a great help if you could -- " "Could what?" Prez opened his eyes. "Where's the mail?" Penner pinned the dog down by his shoulders. "Benny, what is it you want?" "Let go of me," said the dog. Penner did. T HE warm hand sat on his naked chest like a starfish. Penner sat up in the wide bed and said,"Yow." "Norby, relax. You're certainly jumpy, aren't you?" Penner reeled in the lamp cord and found the toggle. Light came on and he saw Benny, in a tan raincoat and dark head scarf, sitting on the edge of the bed. He caught her elbow. The cloth ' was chill, still damp with the snowflakes. "How does Bishop Dix work this?" "What? I didn't mean to scare you awake, Norby. I know you weren't expecting me for several days. After the flight was canceled I spent the night in New York. I called you first thing the next morning but the phone was out. So I decided to fight my way back to you and here -- finally -- I  am. She leaned down to kiss him. "Then you didn't go down in the storm-tossed waters of the Atlantic?" "Our flight was canceled," said the lovely blonde girl. "I phoned Dad and he said he'd make other arrangements. So I rented a car and I got stuck in Port Chester for the longest spell -- but here I am." Penner touched her again. "Benny, about Prez?" "Is he well? The cold bothers him sometimes." "He's fine. Can he change his voice at all. That is, have you ever known him to do something like that?" Benny laughed. "Has he been teasing you. Yes, he's very good at impersonations. We had that built in." Penner said, "You stay here. I'll be back in a few minutes. A last-minute something I thought of." "Can't it wait?" "No." "I'll take off my clothes." "Do that," he said. Penner grabbed a robe and shuffled into slippers. He shot out of the bedroom and down the stairs. Prez was gone from the loveseat he had selected to sleep on. Penner chose the heaviest poker from the rack of them screwed to the fireplace bricks. He roamed the dark house and located the shaggy black dog under an old desk in the rumpus room. "Come out of there, you stinker." The dog huddled in a nest of torn package wrappings. A Swedish stamp had gotten stuck to his floppy left ear. "What is it now, peckerwood?" Penner said, "We've sure had a lot of fun. You and your damn hoax. Well, as you must know, Benny's back. I'm going to run things." "That'll be a switch." Penner thrust his free hand under the desk and caught at Prez. "Watch it -- " Prez snarled, then bit Penner's hand. "Damn." Penner pulled his bleeding hand free. "Now you're really through, Prez." "Oh, no," said the dog. "You are." "What?" "You've just been infected with rabies." Penner looked from his injured hand to the dog under the desk. "No more jokes, Prez. I happen to know there hasn't been a case of rabies in this part of the country for ten years." "I know," said the dog. "That's why I had to send away for the virus."  IF Which is better -- to understand an alien or to know yourself ? T HE captain picked up one of the cubes and very carefully felt it between his thumb and forefinger. His eyes held suspicion. "What is it?" "A bomb." He stared at it. Jerod answered the unspoken comment: "No -- not like any bomb you've ever seen. 'Specially constructed for our purpose. The explosive is inside under pressure." The captain put the blue-black cube down beside its twin. They lay together on the desk between the two men reduced now to brooding silence. The captain's eyes were on the cubes. "When?" Jerod understood. "Departure is scheduled for as soon as the Telepath arrives. The rest is set. Your ship is ready?" "Yes." The captain raised his eyes to Jerod' s. The sharp lines of his face softened. "I won't be needing the replacement person nel. The entire crew is staying on." Pride echoed in his words. "We've been together a long time -- since before the War. It's -- " He stumbled-tongued, looking perhaps for a word to describe his feelings. Lamely he finished: "It's too late now anyway." t The door slid open onto renewed silence. The intruder's face wore an indoor pallor. His uniform was wrinkled. His eyes were hollow, with harsh shadows beneath them. Jerod: "That's all for now, I guess." The captain turned to leave. "Wait -- " Jerod removed a cube. He never consciously thought of it as a bomb -- it was ridiculously small for the power the word implied. "You might as well take it with you." He handed the captain the cube. The captain pushed it into a side pocket without looking at it. The newcomer's eyes followed him out past the door. Jerod asked, "Well, Hayes?" "The Telepath? He's as ready as he'll ever be." Hayes spoke in a monotone. "You're sure?" "Yes, damn it! Does it make any difference?" Jerod stared at him quizzically. "Any thing wrong?" "No. Should there be?" The pale, rumpled man looked doomed. His whole appearance whispered it. "You want to see the Telepath before the Double Bill leaves?" "No." Jerod spoke softly. "No. It isn't necessary." son-Mirrada, the E-tee was waiting. He was tall and somber with hair the color of thunderclouds. Both his hands gripped tightly the guide bar of his vehicle as it drifted fifty meters above the surface of the designated meeting place. An impressive array of devices protected the alien. Hte craft contained a variety of them and he himself carried no less than a dozen weapons. A stunner at his side was the only one visible. It was within the terms of the meeting -- and was meant to lull the Other's suspicions. v Yet fear prowled the alien's mind beneath the thin layers of superimposed logic called "civilization" -- a terror almost primordial -- although, as a precaution IF against treachery by the Enemy, his mother ship waited. She was standing off a standard astronomical unit from the planetoid, according to the agreement reached with the Enemy. She was also secretly modified to enable her to get to him faster and with more fire-power than her Enemy counterpart. Yet the feeling remained tacit despite all the logical reasons arrayed against it. The Enemy's cyborg scout ship grew within his lidless, violet eyes. His hands on the guide bar of the floater clenched into fists. HE Telepath awoke. He fought upward from a remembered nightmare to the coolness of silence. Stubborn pieces of the dream swirled within the stark flood of his drugged brain like pinpricks setting it afire with pain. An insanely multiplying torment in the jungles of night was tearing him apart. He trembled on the brink of relevance. Steady . You'll be all right now. We're here to help you. Screams echoed through his mind. Hurry with that hypo... He jammed the back of his hand against his mouth to stifle the terror rising to his, lips. It's all right... gone now... finished... His breathing steadied and he managed to relax the contorted muscles of his face, to drive away ther hunted look. He stared into the view-screen, watching the planetoid swallow the ship. Silence... genuine... real... with no blurred undertone run ning beneath it... so cool... He tasted it within himself rYou understand what's to be done... Terror rumbled. Yes. Yes. I understand . Give me the drug. The encephalic depressant. Give it tome... E-tee kept his face impassive. But he could not control the v turbulence under his imposed calm. The Enemy was descending from a circular opening at the base of his cyborg ship. He dropped slowly to the Etee's level. The uneasiness kindled higher, racing along hi nerves, within, his blood, until he could barely keep from baring his teeth at the creature. His hands were fists about the guide bar, the ram-fire needjer hidden in it seeming as far away as his home world. They faced each other separated by five meters of distance. Hiding the throbbing within him the E-tee spoke: "I am empowered to discuss terms of settlement." . The movement of his lips revealed small, concavely serrated teeth. He memorized every detail of the Enemy. The sensors here as well as those watching from the mother ship might miss something and every bit of information would be vital in order to discover the location of the Enemy home world. TheEnemy winced as if slapped across the face. The action puzr zled the E-tee. His face was still a blank. It had not betrayed him. It came... again. A wave of nausea knotted his stomach. Fight it! Fight it, damn you! Well r... Couldn't take it. He's unconscious. His mind is still receiving, though . Ill have to give him the e-d... Go ahead. Well try again later... Again... t And again. As long as it takes... Wouldn't it be kinder to put him out of his pain? For whom? Remembering... slashed across its belly... died shrieking. Irrelevant. His mind was drowning in a flickering kaleidoscope of flame dripping molten fire like a huge festering sore. He was mute, the screams trapped in his mouth, incapable of escaping the scouring tumult of images and alien emotions. He'reeled with the superimposed pounding in his blood at the sounding din of a a berserk dirge over the gutted carcasses of burning cities; weaving within, improvising upon, the weakening groans of the dying and the high, piercing screams of the still living. Bloated bodies ripening to olive from green to black as burned-out cinders gushed at him. His mind stared numbly at hollow, grinning sockets that nothing could hurt any more and slipped on unwound intestines to lie feebly, attempting to fold in upon itself and escape the... Blood... He fell under the ages of bones and died -- and fell again. And then there was no more bloodjust words blowing from somewhere. Lie la, there is no other way. The Enemy must be destroyed. Llela, understand. Please, Llela -- Llela -- what L never had time to say to you... The Telepath understood. Must the women always wait? Why? For what reason? When you've found out the location of the E-tee's home world and any other strategic data press this, stud. It will release an odorless, invisible gas similar to the encephalic depressant. That should slow the Etee's senses enough so that hell never feel the explosive # IF penetrate his epidermis . TAw button on the guide bar triggers the injector... When? , What? Oh -- whenever he enters the gravity field of another planet -- hopefully his own home world. The mass conversion reaction should be about ninety-percent efficient... Do statistics bleed , Hayes? Always the same... the blindness... does anybody understand? You have no choice. We have no choice. You have to do it. You re the only Telepath we T ve got. The other eight burned out within a Month of becoming active. You're the last one alive and sane. You owe the human race something for that at least... Don't you think I know that? Sometimes I wish Polypsychic hadn't brought me out of withdrawal. Have you any conception of what it is to be the means by which an entire race of people die? Can you understand that , Hayes? The death of -- people? They're not people. JE-tees. Aliens. Zenophobic  monsters -- they're not people. And what difference does it really make anyway? Who gives a damn? That's the way its always been since the first human could lift a rock or swing a club to take what he wanted. Sure , there has to be a better way -- sometime ; Maybe we're not truly human yet. Or only too human... I knoy. But that still doesn't make it the way it has to be now. We have to try to change -- even if we fail. We have to try... Look , just do what you're told . It's not your personal responsibility to decide the moral value judgments... But it is. Can't you see that? You know , the first contact ships from both races didn't even try to talk to each other before they opened fire... T HE words formed purposefully in the Telepath's mind. Listen to me... He opened his mind to the Etee trying to explain what words could never make clear. For the smallest part of a heartbeat long war within was ended. They stood face to face, mind to mind. There was sudden comprehension. Panic. The E-tee's r eyes glazed over with unreasoning fear. His mind twisted, struck out. No -- can't you understand? Listen. The Etee's hand plunged toward the button on the guide bar of his vehicle. No... The Telepath reacted instinctively. An almost inaudible hiss whispered from the e-d injector. The Etee's hand stopped as if frozen as the gas began to work. Realization dawned slowly on his face. In a hoarse, straining voice he croaked, "Telepath!" His hand found another, nearer, button. No... Time shattered into twisting hot splinters... melting. The blast slammed into the Telepath with a buzzing steel fury. His floater platform jumped in the shock wave and fell. He crashed. A blossoming flower of fire exploded within him. He doubled over with pain into a void -- into a rushing darkness where the fire did not exist. the smell of dug earth. Using the battered floater's rail he pulled himself upright. The Etee's vehicle was scattered across the green. Small charred pieces dotted it obscenely, along with other debris. Blood... always blood... High above, within a flashing of sparks, a new star glowed for a moment. I failed... but there is no escape... there can never be...  I care... that is the way it is... the only way it could be... The E-tee mother ship was growing rapidly larger in the sky. T HE pictures on the monitors suddenly blacked out. Hayes looked up from the screens. "The Double Bill is gone." Jerod nodded. "It was supposed to happen. The Telepath could never have completed the mission. We knew that before we sent him. The personality profile Polypsychic put together on him confirmed it. By now the E-tees have him. They'll check him carefully and take him to their home world for intensive study." Hayes didn't understand. "The cubes," Jerod said. "Didn't you ever wonder why there were two? The explosive is part of his blood by now." "Damn you." "It had to be done. As much as it was hard and pitiless, it was justified. Mankind must survive. Its enemies must be destroyed. There is no other way." Hayes glared at Jerod. "You used him. He never had any choice. Now he's a walking bomb." "We had no choice. We did what had to be done. Our survival as a race depends on our individual readiness to fight -- and even die -- if necessary. , He owed humanity that at least." He was silent for a moment, the grimness about his mouth and eyes quivering. His voice came deliberately softer: "You understand?" "Does it matter?" The words were heavy with weariness. Hayes reached into a pocket for a piece of paper one of the Polypsychic doctors had given him. A poem the Telepath had written. Hayes stared at the scrawl. IF All men are strangers now skeletons without rest to keep away the World's end -- for it ends forever... and there are no heavens in all the haunting ages... Hayes carefully refolded the the Statler Hilton, Boston. For information: Anthony Lewis, # Unity Avenue, Belmont, Mass. ##. Hilton Inn, San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests of Honor Miriam Allen de Ford and E. Hoffman Price. Fan Guest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: # now, # after January #st, # at the door. For information: Quinn Yarbro, # Columsa ##, Berkeley, Calif. #.  At the Royal Hotel, Southampton, England. Guest of Honor: James Blish. Panels, films, lectures and displays. Scheduled speakers: Raymond Fletcher, Member of Parliament who works closely with the Ministry of Technology; Dr. Kit Pedler, lecturer in Opthalmology and TV script writer; et. al. Most of the British sf writers will be in attendance. For information: don, W.C. #, England. Jerod had gone with a shake of his head. Hayes switched off the screens, slowly rose and drew his weapon. "He said out loud but softly, "Perhaps there are no answers. Maybe first we have To ask the right questions. This should make for a few." # information: Jim Young, # Ulysses Street, N.E., Minneapolis,. Minnesota #.  pin. Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: #. For information and registration -- : Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York I #.  California. Guest of Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest of Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California #.  Memberships: Supporting, #; Atgia #.  AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. For information and registration: West Germany. IF Spider's trouble was that he , smelled like a female turnip when male celery was desired! S tarship Olga gently nosed into her berth at the Grus Satellite Station and roused her human companionpilot. This would be their last rest stop before the long run down the Los Coyotes Diagonal to the Dog Star. Here she could bargain around for fuel and astrogational data while Spider, her human, relaxed. Spider enjoyed biochess and the Grus S.S. game room had an attractive reputation. Spider drifted sleepily from his couch to the refresher. He pulled on his heavily telemetered undersuit and swam deftly from web to web toward the airlock. His half-sized left arm and right leg gave him a hobbling, spiderlike gait on a planet's surface but in the no-grav of space he moved smoothly. Mechanical embryogenesis might be a handy method of growing babies outside the female's uterus but spider's servo had bungled his fetal mineral balance and left him with irregular bone growth -- asymmetrical extremities and a lumpy skull. But a spaceship pilot was judged for his productivity and wit, not for his decorative value. The game room was dark. The Auto-Glo boards and pieces were reflected in the players' eyes -- soft yellows and greens. Spectators hung about in ' three-dimensional webs. A wall panel monitored the contests -- Spider's rating was up # points after two games. His retinal rhodopsin was bleached out from concentrating on the glowing pieces. When his third opponent joined him out of the darkness, all he could see was a pair of twinkling humanoid corneas staring at him from across the board. Anonymity enhanced biochess by adding an unknown rating to unpredictable protoplasm. Spider found meck-chess too consistent. His depth of analysis depended on the machine's setting. A move he'd give a (!) at # might get a (?) at # because of superfidal study. This error could cost him the position when facing a protoplasmic intelligence, whose genius fluctuated with metabolic variations but a machine could be counted on to play only at its rating. This opponent was biological and probably human -- two eyes, no facets. He was Right King and moved first. An offered gambit pawn. It was declined. He opened a rook file opposite the castled Left King, forcing the N-KR#. The move had seemed natural enough in the opening -- but when the knight remained inactive oh the sidelines during the midgame struggle for the center, Spider suspected that he was being given the "silent knight odds." Why? He studiedthe eyes again -- large and unfamiliar. A flat, wide nose was visible. The head silhouette was large -- either a pillow of human hair or the ballooned head of some alien. Spider recognized neither the features nor. the style of play. He pressed his attack. Spider's extra working knight took the center. The Left King's pawn line crumbled under his rdoks and bishops as they rolled' toward the castled position. End game deteriorated into a lively king hunt which attracted a clot of spectators. Spider heard someone in the background mumble: "He's really doing it to her." The pronoun explained the "silent knight odds" -- a feminine ploy. By making her position unplayable she had adopted a submissive female posture on the chessboard. She was toying with him and letting her clock run. He checked. She fled. He checked again. Then -- in a gesture of resignation -- she placed her index finger on her queen and slowly tipped it over. The wall panel recorded another win for him. She disappeared into the IF darkness as he began to set up the board again. Discovering that one of his knights was missing. Spider climbed the webfc and started floating after her. It was unusual to run into "horse collectors" on satellites. deck. From a distance she appeared to be wearing tight, goldfoil coveralls. She ducked furtively into a cabin in the pilot section. As he drifted up to the door it unexpectedly irised him into a single bunk room, containing a refresher, a desk and a dispenser chute. The roar of the layered airwater laminar flow filled his ears and he saw her telemetered undersuit snapped to the outside of the refresher hatch. On the desk top he found his knight -- a dull opaque yellow in the cabin's light. Two frosted squeeze bottles 'were conspicuous in the dispenser. "Have a foamy. I'll be right out," she shouted over the roar. She groped coyly around the hatch for her undersuit -- hardly more than a body stocking spangled with small sensors and microcircuits. He sipped his drink--a cognac old-fashioned. "Your knight is on the -- oh, I see you've found it," she said as she entered the room. The gold-foil effect was caused by a heavy patina of body paint which gleamed brightly, through the wide. mesh. She was hurhan, N very symmetrical, a rather healthy rural specimen from Kliiborne and -- judging by her telemetry -- a spaceship pilot. She pushed off toward the dispenser. "Sorry about' the knight, "she said conversationally as she approached on a tangent. Her right hand darted out and cupped the back of his head. She gave him three quick, wet kisses -- analytical pecks -- on his mouth, cheek and neck. Leaving him spinning slowly in the middle of the room, she continued to the chute and picked up her drink. He stopped his rotation with a ceiling web. "Testing?" he asked. Sucking on her drink, she raised her eyes and nodded. "And?" he asked. She shrugged and shook her head. Nothing. That was his usual effect on the girls. He drifted over to her and gave her sternal area a tentative pat. "Frolicking with anyone tonight?" he asked. The silence that dragged" out hurt him but he maintained a pleasant, easy facade. She glanced from the refresher to her bunk -- weighing an evening's companionship against the coming months of loneliness on her deepspace route. "Come back after your game," she said pleasantly. Spider returned to the game room and lost to a Quad , a massive alien with one large, faceted eye and redundant skin folds. Endgame recklessness cost him a passed pawn. Later he found her coaxing a three-course meal out of her dispenser. The variety was interesting. He ate well. Preparing to frolic, she warmed the refresher and undid her belt. "You can bunk with me," she invited. "But I don't think I can love you." They both watched her cardiogram tell-tale -- no tachycardia or extrasystoles. Snapping their suits to the hatch, they entered the steamy wind tunnel. Cascades  of low-ion water buffeted their intimate swimdance... As her. body paint peeled off he saw her reason for wearing it. Her epidermis had .the dull gray-black pigmentation of silver-ion overload -- argyria -- and a. linear, hairy, mole ran down the midline of her back. The argyria was a cumulative error in her ship's life-support system -- not physiologically significant, amounting to merely a cosmetic disaster. They danced until their bodies squeaked on contact. She talked easily, petted politely and even attempted to look sultry -- but she couldn't love. They bunked together -- warmed physically and psychologically by each other's presence. Twelve standard hours later they left Grus Station -- going their separate routes. T he Los Coyotes Diagonal held few surprises. About two years later Olga returned from the Dbg Star and entered the Grus communication net. A soft throb of music attracted Spider's attention to Olga's panel. The viewscreen showed a horizontal drumhead festooned with flowers. His forehead dampened as a small, naked female approached the tangle of blossoms. This was the beginning of the Drum Dance -- the mating ritual of his home planet -- Deneb One. The fact that no 'female had ever drummed for him did not lessen the dance's impact on his physiology. He wiped his brow with' his gnarled left hand and adjusted the focus. She stepped onto the resilient hide -- feet wide apart -- toes gripping the grained surface. Her wide eyes and slight curves suggested a pubescent innocence but this, quickly vanished in the wild erotica of her dance. Her long hair -- at first an unruly, dry web ballooned out by static electricity -- began to tangle and cling in' her beading sweat. Her exertion continued. Pounding heart sounds accentuated the musical beat as the tempo picked up. Trickles of salty eccrine marbled her belly and legs. Her feet pattered wetly to a crescendo. The screen blanked in midIF throb and Spider slowly let out the breath he was holding. Silence hung for a moment in the little command cabin. He roused himself from ' the demi-trance to ask, "Who was that?" "Rau Lu," filled in Olga. The screen activated and showed the I.D. vjews of the female chess opponent -- complete down to the mole on her back. Spider eyed Olga's optic pickup suspiciously. "But Rau Lu is from Kliiborne -- out Sirius way. She isn't familiar with our mating rituals," he said. ' "The dance was simulated," explained Olga in a dry , metallic tone. He winced. The depth 'of understanding these machines were acquiring by living with humans continued to surprise him. He raised a quizzical eyebrow. "Diagnostic test," said Olga. "Ever since our stopover at the Grus Satellite we'v had small inefficiencies on board. Inefficiencies that could cut into our profits." "But I haven't noticed any..." he began. "It is quite obvious from these graphs -- " Olga projected a variety of his physiological readouts on the screen"that your red feathers are showing.". "My red what?" he asked. "Your red feathers," said Olga. "This tracing is your arrecteres pilorum myogram which measures the elevation of your hair shafts. Note the effect of the Drum Dance. The pattern corresponds quite closely with the red feather myogram qf the grouse during its mating dance." Over a sawtoothed myogram the split-screen showed brambles and' dry leaves. Deneb One's red ruffed grouse hopped about, beat: irtg its wings. He could understand why the myograms might be similar. Just the thought of the dance prickled his back and neck. His motor end plates must drop their thresholds because his trapezius muscles seemed to tense. Capillary beds swelled, pulse and respiration changes occurred. He understood. Olga continued: "The red-feather adjustment -- love metabolism -- is efficient on a planet's surface if you are competing for a mate. It is inefficient on a starship where patience and accuracy are needed." "But I'm not in love," he protested. The throbbing music began and a soft focus of the flowered drumhead appeared on the screen. He held up his right hand. "Stop! Okay. I'll admit that the Drum Dance gives me goose flesh -- or grouse flesh. But that is nonspecific. Rau Lu was just another girl in my life. I'm not in love," he said firmly. Olga detected his rising epinephrine level, so she dropped back into Routine Mode. A star map appeared on her screen. run Olga remained in orbit to off-load while Spider reentered. The pulj of gravity was irksome after almost eight years of pleasant weightlessness but his faithful gym work preserved sufficient muscle and bone to handle the effort. The eighteen-inch right leg prosthesis worked pretty well on the smooth beltways. After a few false starts he was able to leave the crutches in the tender. Checking in with the Company, he was pleasantly surprised by his megafranc balance. Two stock distributions brought his and Olgas wealth up into the two-human class. They were now entitled to more cargo space, lavish lifesupport, and more powerful drive units. A two-human ship. Olga must have known this when she simulated the Drum Dance. They were in the communication net at the time. She had known and had tried a not-so-subtle promotion of Rau Lu. As usual, Olga was probably right. She wanted him to go hetero -- same species, different sex, Well, Rau Lu probably wouldn't be too bad to Ship Up with -- if only she could love. Spider put in three requests -- one to the company .for permission to go' two-human; another to Com Cen for Rau Lu's present position and the third to Olga for analysis of Rau Lu's inability to love. Then he limped down to the game room. Most of the meck-chess cubicles were filled, but he could see by the settings that no one was playing over the # level. Not much self-esteem in the planet-bound these days, he reflected. He dragged his weakening right leg into a handy foamy alcove and enjoyed a couple open-top drinks. It was sort of fun to look down into a glass and see a real ice cube -- and watch it stay down there while it melted. Gravity did have some entertainment value. The Company Immunopsychologist called him in. "Immuno what?" Spider asked .after shaking the hand Of the bald little man in white coveralls; "Psychologist. Call me Maynard. I have your request to go two-human. I'd like to discuss it with you." . He noticed Spider's discomfort while standing and waved him into a slick, soft chair. "I see you are considering hetero. I'd like to point out some of the hazards of Shipping Up with the same species." He activated a wall panel directly in front of Spider. Graphs and statistics appeared. Spider let his mind wander. "Of course hetero has its place. IF Sexual reproduction and all that. But now mechanical embryogenesis has made even that largely unnecessary. We've learned that#ietero is actually dangerous -- crimes of violence being statistically most ' common between people who are the closest. When hetero relationships were legally binding we observed serious interpersonal conflicts most frequently .in pairs dwelling in the smallest living quarters. "Immunology traced the etiology to the antigen-antibody reaction -- hence the emergence of our field: Immunopsychology. Antigens from one human -- bits of protein in skin scales, hair dust, sperm, saliva -- anything -- would cause the build-up of antibodies in the other. At first this might be manifest as a mild incompatibility, such-as sterility between the pair. But both would prove fertile when matched with an antigenic stranger. Later the mere presence of the partner could precipitate significant stress responses -- even asthmalike attacks or coronary spasms. In most cases of moderate close exposure the antibody titre reached the critical level in about seven years." Spider failed to see the reason for all this. "In starships hetero has caused many mission failures. Loving pairs are sent off but they fail to arrive at their destinations. The same missions are repeated easily by single-human-ships and the hu manalien pairs. Hetero failures were often due to acquired personality conflicts -- tragic, Violent conflicts. Ship's logs showed mounting stress -- anxieties that were precipitated by the partner. Even the surviving hetero pairs often reported symptoms of stress. The explanation came when we found the antibodies. Each member of the hetero pair had built up antibodies against the other. The titres correlated well -- directly proportional to the stress." "Female humans are out?" asked Spider. T HE little scientist nodded. "Too hazardous." "What do you recommend for your two-seaters?" asked Spider. He. had made a mental note to check with Olga on this new antibody-insanity theory. Starships often kept their own statistics and cdnclusions -- trying their own remedies. Maynard had cleared the wall panel. "The Quad has been one of our most -- " . "Quad!" interrupted Spider. "That alien coelenterate! Why, I'd consider him more of a pet than a partner." "He probably thinks much the same of you." Maynard smiled. "And he isn't a coelenterate, of course. Warm-b'looded. Totally alien antigens. No danger of allergy." Spider tried to picture himself shipping out with an amorphous, sac-iike Quad. No, ,he preferred Rau Lou. Thanking the Immunopsychologist, he hobbled back to his tender and lifted off. As soon as he felt the no-gray he pulled off the prosthesis and wiggled the sore toes on his gnarled right foot. "Antibody danger in hetefo?" asked Olga. "It's a danger -- but not if environmental controls are functioning. Recycled air and water must be molecularly cleaned with filters, carbonizers. Your dermal debris should feed plankton -- not sensitize your partner. It is always a concern but not enough to cancel out hetero. Rau Lou's failure to love -- frigidity -- was also a by-product of starship environment. Both of you have reached an equilibrium with your life-support Systems -- particularlythe hydrocarbons of your ship. Your taste and smell are those of the ship. She can't love you in your present flavor because she associates it with females. Our hydroponics plant is the yellow turnip -- the rutabaga. On her home planet the women chew the dried and cured rutabaga leaf. So, you probably tasted too much like her sister to arouse any sexual attraction." Spider frowned. "I taste like a girl?" "You taste -- and smell -- like a rutabaga. To Rau Lou that is feifiale." He relaxed. That would certainly be easy tb remedy. Celery could be quickly substituted for the yellow turnip as the hydroponics plant. By the time he again met Rau Lou he would be a changed man -- or rather, a changed vegetable. Olga continued: "The men of Kliiborne work in mines and related industries. I've added essence of char and some copper ions to your refresher fluids. That might trigger the masculine label in hertaste buds. As for body paint -- I think she would be attracted by a coarsely granular brown stucco. That would go well with -- " Spider stepped into Olga's ramblings. "How do you happen to have so much information on Rau Lou?" The console went silent for several full seconds. "Your red-feather reaction appeared during your biochess game with Rau Lou. When I learned that your opponent was a female, why, I naturally assumed -- " "I know what you assumed. But where did you get all the information? Did you happen to meet her ship while we were at the Grus Station?" "Yes, my human." "And you ' arranged a data ' transfer?" ' "Yes, my human." He slumped. Now her ship khew  IF as much about him as Olga knew about her. He shuddered to think of what kind of a mating dance Rau Lou's ship might simulate from his data. His Com Cen request for Rau Lou's location was finally answered. She was missing. Her warp trail ended soon after passing through the Fomalhaut system. The probability cone was largely a "cold zone." She was lost in a volume of space devoid of luminous bodies -- and she had been there for over a year. A personal search was out of the question -- too expensive. But Olga weighed the possibility of salvaging Rau Lou's cargo plus a paying cargo to Fomalhaut against the odds. It would be financially risky -- but they'd go. were picking their way through the scanty frozen debris of the cold zone. Spider was depressed. "This is as bad as being between arms of the spiral or Off Galaxy. I can't see how anyone could survive here. There's not even a good first mag star -- let alone a sun," he said . "She'd have to live like we are -- full life support. Need her own power source. That is good in a way -- for It gives us something to find. Any energy should stand out easily against this empty tackground." Spider worried about the expense. The small token cargo they carriedto Fomalhaut barely covered their energy expenditure out. Olga assured him that there were megafrancs to spare even if they didn't salvage Rau Lu's ship. He was uneasy about the amount of time in the search pattern -- knowing the cost of sustaining a zigzag course where momentum is repeatedly wasted as directions are reversed. Olga's sensors sniffed out the tenuous ion trail of a conventional drive. They followed it hopefully until it disappeared in the gravity well of a cold star. "That reads like a real hole in space," said Spider, looking at the indicators... "Yes, not much is getting through the pull. We can't go down there. Have to go around and take up the search pattern on the other side," "Radiation source," Olga noted later. The screen showed a rogue planet of about the same mass as Deneb One. Without a warming sun its atmosphere and oceans were crystallized. A single pin'point radiation source was present -- primarily gamma rays. Spider turned up the magnification but all he saw was the raw, unweathered rocky terrain -- needle-point peaks, razor sharp crevices wherever he looked. Olga orbited and scanned. "The radiation source is not naturaU" said Olga . "I'll have to send down my Mobile Surface Unit to check it out. I keep getting outlines that resemble a ship, but they are elusive. Do you want to go down, too? There's just about a full gravity."  Spider nodded. "If Rau Lu is down there I might be needed." surface Spider adjusted a soft knee cushion and shin guard on his long left leg and practiced crawling. With a padded glove on hisv larger right hand he had a three-point stance which would probably be stable enough for the cracked and tilted surface he had seen through the scanners. But standing on his small right foot and kneeling with his left made him shorter than Rau Lu -- by lowering his height about eighteen inches. Crawling did nothing for his ego, either. He decided to try the prosthesis and crutches. Setting down about a hundred yards from the radiation, he sent the M.S.U. ahead while he practiced walking on the irregular surface. The crutch tips slipped and the prosthesis caught in the cracks. His ankle ached. The M.S.U. disappeared over a steep, jagged ridge. The darkness was absolute. Harsh light beams from the tender penciled about -- catching the surface formations in their glare -- but the depths of the cracks remained an opaque black. There was no diffusion of the beams without an atmosphere. Setting his hand beam on wide-soft focus. Spider struggled after the M.S. U. The frozen, silent planet fought him. The tilted, slick surfaces offered precarious footing -- glassy mineral, fused metal or simple ice, he couldn't tell. Gravity seemed to be pulling him toward the bottomless crevices -- the fall alone would kill him. The only sounds he heard were the unsteady tread of his prosthesis and tapping of his crutch as he searched for his next foothold. I His senseless, artificial foot -- unable to evaluate -- stood on a brittle, crystalloid sponge. As he shifted his weight it crumbled -- sending him tumbling hard. Momentarily stunned, he lay in a shallow recess, isolated by the dark vacuum. "Stay there," came Olgas. order over his communicator. "We've found the radiation source. It isn't Rau Lu's ship." Spider tried to untangle himself from his bent crutch and twisted prosthesis. He didn't know whether to be worried or relieved. He had not wanted Rau Lu to see him this way -- a helpless cripple. But, then, where was she? The zetetic M.S.U. continued, "Alien craft -- megayears a derelict -- molecular drift has fused the hull to the contiguous surfaces of the planet." IP Spider crawled to the top of the ridge to see the wreck. The pitted and granular hull was difficult to outline from the landscape but it was roughly cylindrical. Its age suggested that the civilization that had spawned it might well have evolved into something unrecognizable by now. "Where's the radiation coming from?" asked Spider as he heard his suit detector clicking wildly! "Someone has cut into it recently. Looks like the power cell has been emptied. Resembles our Quark-Bottle design -- although megayear stability is hard to explain." Spider retreated behind the tilted slag. His detector quieted. Tell-tales indicated heavy gamma radiation. "The cuts fit those made by the Bodkin-Ill. Rau Lu's M.S.U. was equipped with one," continued the M.S.U. It busied itself with sampling the walls of the power cell for elements with induced radioactivity. It gave the percentage of each, element in isotope form. Spider immediately calculated that the source of the radiation had been removed well within Rau Lu's missing period. Only # of the copper was in isotope form. But zinc was still about # radioactive and sodium, was as high as #. This indicated that someone had come along about eight standard months ago and tapped the Quark-Bottle. Rau Lu could have been in this area for well over a year by now. Spider relaxed. Anyone with technology capable of tapping a Q-Bottle was probably in good enough shape to survive. The M.S.U. vibrated its heat shield to rid itself of isotope de-. bris. Then it turned, picked up Spider and returned to the tender. He wrapped his sprained little ankle and took a nap. After taking the tender onboard, Olga let him continue sleeping while she took up the search pattern again. Several days later they came upon a hot fragment of the alien power cell -- probably jettisoned after its energy had been extracted. It marked the beginning of the elusive ion trail and narrowed the search area considerably. droponics for the yellow turnip and tried on his brown stucco body paint. He had already gotten used to the cupric and char flavor of his laminar flow. The carbonizers were functioning well in the air recirculators. Micro-Pore filters in the refresher and other water lines were removing anything larger than a salt molecule -- anything that might sensitize. His ankle mended quickly. He was ready to meet Rau Lu again. Three weeks later they found her ship silently anchored to a planetoid. Spider was glad to see that the planetoid's mass was only about a tenth that of Deneb One. Olga's greetings were not answered. Rau Lu's ship showed no signs of meek life. The scanners picked out Rau Lu's survival shelter inflated over a nearby valley. Cables connected it to the ship and the fractionating columns were erected -- indicating some attempt at mining the local gas and water solids... Olga nestled gently against the quiet starship and connected airlocks. She sent her servomech into its hull to investigate. Spider suited up and started for the survival shelter -- with a copper coin in his mouth. Inside he found about twenty acre-feet of airspace tinder eighttenths of an atmosphere. Powerful light sources from the hydroponics section hung overhead, warming his face and hands. The floor -- a rocky conglomerate -- supported a monotonous growth of white potatoes. A small pool at the lower end had the scummy look of phytoplankton. She had certainly kept busy. He had been worrying about what effect this prolonged isolation might have had on her psyche but she apparently had had little free time for her to worry about it. He was impressed by her success with tools: the cannibalized Q-Bottle, the fractionating columns and operating shelter biosphere. He supposed that her lack of contact with sentient living beings had been very depressing. If her ship's meck-intelligence had cut out -- as he suspected -- she had had no one to talk to. The only living things around seemed to be these potato plants with their uniform, threecentimeter, white, meaty spheres pushing up through the moist gravel. Of course there were animal life forms in the zooplankton -- but how much companionship can be derived from a pet that can only be seen with a microscope? "Hi, Spider." The casual greeting came over his communicator. He glanced around and then saw Rau Lu -- sans paint -- coming out of her spherical living quarters. She wore a heavy,knee-length wraparound. Its hem was stained green with plant juices. Her hair was tied back neatly and her hands were calloused. She was carrying an armload of personal belongings which she immediately stacked by the airlock. "You're packed?" he asked. "Heard your ship's hail on my communicator. Couldn't answer. Not enough power. So I'vejust been getting ready to go," she explained. She beckoned him inside the spherical shelter and busied herself at the wall-panel controls. He waited in the middle of the room, the bulky helmet under his small left arm. His right teg prosthesis balanced easily in the light gravity. He saw a large potted potato IF plant beside her bed. It was unusual. Besides the clusters of small white tubers, there was one large, lumpy one that had a greefi skin. It sat in the center of the pot and peered up at him through the tangle of green leafy stems. The bizarre lumpy shape was a genetic throwback to its distant ancestors and the chforophyll was an adjustment to the prolonged exposure to the hydroponics light source. She saw him looking at the potted plant and said, "I'll be taking that along too. Pretty fond of it. It's the biggest life-form I've seen since I've been stuck here. Kept me company. Beautiful isn't it?" He nodded absently as he took a closer look. Then it began to look too familiar as he anthropomorphized its pair of embryonic scale eyes and lumpy outline. Asymmetrical potato -- beautiful? The room temperature dropped hands and face. She opened the oxygen valve. It gave a loud hiss. "Why are you turning up the oxygen?" he asked. "You are going to need it," she said. She dimmed the lights, shrugged out of her wrap-around and advanced on him. It was a red-feather day for the asymmetricaLpotato. T WO pints of eccrine electrolytes, later Spider lay trapped by her clinging extremities. She pressed her forehead into his ear, breathed into his neck and mumbled on and on about how happy she was. His presence had made her almost euphoric. She was a very stable human -- capable of sensible efforts for survival. Solitude -- she could handle solitude unless it was indefinitethen it became loneliness. She was good with tools but when she became lonely her tools gathered inertia. She craved something alive and responsive. Her potato had responded to her touch, growing well with the light and water she showered on it. It grew, changed and became asymmetrical. The unresponsive tools remained cold and symmetrical. She had now been in deepspace long enough to equate asymmetry with life. Spider was beautiful to her -- because he was alive and because he was there. In the absence of gravity he was efficient, strong, capable -- and exhibited no limp. With Rau Lou's crippled starship in tow Olga set a course for Rau Lou's target planet. The suspended genetic material in the cargo section was still viable. Its value would balance their energy expenditure. For several days Spider and #ga # s servomechs worked on the crippled ship. Everything seemed to be intact -- power cell, life support, memory banks and drive units. But the ship would not ( Please turn to page #.) T HE burning city was a hidcould remember he was conscious eously beautiful sight below of the enormous mass of a fully arthem when Brand finally called a mored combat suit, halt. "What for?" Davidson's voice "Stop here for just a minute." came through Brand's earphones. His breath was coming hard and But Davidson paused in his lopfor the first time in longer than he ing, reaction-pack-assisted run toHe fought against his own for what he wanted -- and won less than those who lost everything! ward the crest looming above, of kilometers or so," Wisse said, "There's enough of them left to having stopped a few meters bechase us." yond Davidson and remaining "Let me catch my breath," barely visible to Brand, a vaguely Brand said, hating to hear himself monstrous, ghostlike shape in the admit fatigue. darkness and among wind-twisted "It can't be more than a couple trees of the mountainside. "I know," Brand gasped. The suit was too damned heavy. Something was wrong in the feedback. Something was wrong in this whole setup. "Brand," Davidson blurted. "How do you read rendezvous?" Brand dropped to one knee on the rocky mountainside, turning away from the burning city below. He flashed a time reading on the inside of his helmet's faceplate. "Three minutes," he said. "Then let's get the hell out of here." Brand sighed, knowing that there was no point in arguing. They had to make rendezvous or they were stuck on New Iowa for good. As trustworthy as he believed the Dravians to be, he knew they would not make two runs down to pick them up. If he, Davidson and Wjsse -- sole survivors of the raiding party that had hit the colonial city -- did not make rendezvous they were on their own. "Roger." Brand could see the faint glow of Wisse's reaction pack as it assisted him in a six-meter leap up the mountain slope. Davidson, too, jump-jetted up the slope toward the plateau and the homing signal transmitted from the rendezvous site. Brand paused and looked back down into the burning city below for longer than he should have. Better than half of New Iowa City was now aflame. Mildly Brand regretted what he and the others had had to do. They really had not planned on destroying more than a few essential places -- power stations, water works, central communications, things like that. But neither had they counted on the kind of resistance the colonists had put up. The half-assed farmercolonists from Old Earth had never shown much in the way of defenses in the past. The homing transmitter flashed a reading on Brand's faceplate. Looking, up the slope toward the crest, he found he could see neither Davidson nor Wisse. He had to catch up. The reaction pack kicked at his back and his feet kicked at the earth below him. The force of his legs was amplified a dozen times by the suit and he moved cursing all New Iowans -- and the particular one who had blown a building out from under him with an H.E. bomb he hadn't suspected that the colonists possessed. Well, they hadn't figured on the colonists coming up with combat suits either. Still, he'd been hit harder than he thoughts The damned suit had been damaged -- read-outs told him so clearly enough -- but not so badly that he couldn't get to the pickup site, even if he did have to work a little harder at it. He sure as hell wasn't going to let the Dravians take off without him -- not with what they owed him. (F It was kick and jet, kick and jet. Sluggish though it was, the combat suit carried him up the slope, over the rough, ancient boulders and angular outcroppings of rock, over and around the gnarled trees, up toward the safety of the plateau. " passed before he crested the plateau and landed again on level, solid earth. Snapping the night visor down with a twist of his head, through infrared he made out the dim figures of Davidson and Wisse no more than half a kilometer away. Few trees up here obscured the view and the ground itself was surprisingly level. An odd geological formation, some remote part of his mind commented -- but somehow these mountains reminded him ofhome, the hairsh beauty of Breakdown Heights where mere survival was something to be proud of. Not like the soft living the damned New Iowans had in the lush valleys below. Where Davidson and Wisse stoqd had to be the place. Brand told himself. The image projected against his faceplate agreed. The homer was transmitting from straight ahead. And a time projection told Brand that forty-five seconds remained until rendezvous. The Dravian corvette ought to be coming info view any time. Running, leaping, assisted by the reaction pack but still fighting the sluggishness of the suit, he crossed the distance to where his companions stood. "You almost blew it," Davidson said sarcastically. "We all almost blew it," Brand replied, remembering what had happened in the city below. "They ought to be in sight," Davidson said, looking up into the night sky again. "Ought to be firing retros by now." "Ought to be," Wisse repeated quietly. "Which way would they come?" "From the north, I think," Brand replied, flashing a compass image on his faceplate and then looking into the sky in that direction. "We ought to see 'em by now," Davidson said. Brand read the time. "They're due," "More than due," Wisse said. "They're fifteen seconds late." "Give them a chance," Davidson said. "They'll show up." "Yeah, I know they will," Wisse half-heartedly agreed. "Well, the Fuzzies never failed us before." Davidson's voice was almost angry. "There's always a first time," Wisse said but apparently regretted it immediately. He forced a laugh that did nothing to cheer Brand. Neither Brand nor Davidson spoke. They just read the time. looked back at the sky, read the time again.  Davidson, with reddish-blonde hair and a florid face beneath the helmet of his combat suit, was the biggest of the three men. But even he was not tall when compared with most representatives of mankind. Breakdown Heights, with a gravity of nearly one-and-a-half Gs, was noted for the strength and endurance of its natives, not their height. Brand was shorter than Davidson, though he made up for. his lack of height by the widthand massiveness of his shoulders. His face, too, was wide. His eyes were deep, dark pools behind the covering of his helmet. He was the loner of the group, a man with few friends, one whose quick temper did not encourage close relationships. Now he was doing an excellent job of keeping his temper in check. He knew he had to. Wisse was shorter still than Brand and slighter of build -- but still a man whose physical strength had been nurtured by the massive, desolate homeworld of the mercenaries. His thin face could barely be seen inside his helmet. There was growing, concern on it. "A full minute," he said. 'They've never been late for a pickup before." His voice was seriously worried. "How far behind us do you think they were?" Davidson asked, turning to Brand. "Ten minutes maybe," Brand replied, feeling the concern beginning to grow within himself. "Parker slowed, them down when he set off that mini A-bomb in the river." "I hope he slowed them," Wisse said. Ido , too... Brand remembered that Parker himself had died in the miniature nuclear blast that had widened the river into a new lake in the center of the city. Beyond that it was all a jumble in his mind now, what happened down there in New Iowa City. But it had clearly been an ambush -- the New Iowans fitted out in combat suits as good as those of the raiders, coming out of doorways, leaping from roofs, moving with the precision of trained troops, in moments surrounding the raiders who had expected to meet no real resistance at all. The New Iowans had never known anything like that before; not when the mercenaries had hit the farms and smaller towns. told himself. Twenty-seven of the hardest mercenaries in the galaxy had bought it before the three of them -- four, but Parker had not made it all the way -- fought their way out of the trap, throwing thermos and H.E.'s and everything else they had in every direction' and made it up the mountain to the plateau and the rendezvous spot. Dammit, I wish they'd hurry, Brand told himself. "Two minutes," Davidson said, his voice a dead calm. "What's wrong with them?" Wisse demanded. "They'll. come," Brand said. He was senior man now. He ought to take command, if you could call it that. "Their timing's just off, that's all." He looked up at the sky again. Still nothing, still an absolute nothing, unless you counted the something you didn't when you were looking for a Dravian corvette. "Wisse," he said suddenly, "go back to the cliff and see if the farmers really are following us." "What if the Fuzzies come?" Wisse demanded. "If they come, we'll make them wait." "No, you go." Brand swung up his right arm, the one whose sleeve housed the rocket launcher. He leveled it at the chest of Wisse's suit. "Go back and look . " Wisse did not speak but after a few moments and another search of the sky he turned and loped back toward the edge of tho plateau. "Wonder what's keeping them," Davidson muttered, apparently inore to himself than to Brand. "Bad timing." "Nonsense. You ever heard of a Fuzzy being a second off? I don't like none pf this." Turning toward the plateau's edge. Brand said through the radio link, "See anything, Wisse?" "They're coming up." Panic was in the other man's voice. Damn. Brand wondered who had picked Wisse for a mercenary? He ought to be a klopak fisherman. Starting to break down at the first little -- and then he remembered the slaughter in the city. The picture was damned near impossible -- he didn't know whether to be ashamed of the Breakdowners or whether to admire the colonists. If they really were colonists -- he pondered for a moment. But if not New Iowans, who then? "How many?" he asked. "Can't tell," said Wisse's voice in his earphones. "Couple of dozen." "Can't be," Davidson said. "There couldn't have been so many of 'em left. Parker must've killed off a whole squad himself." "Calm down and count them," Brand commanded. "They ought to be emitting enough infrared for that." He checked the time. Five minutes. Hard to believe Dravians could be that far off schedule. "Fourteen," Wisse ? s voice said after a while. "I clearly count fourteen of them in combat suits." His voice was calmer now. He had regained control of himself. "Too many," Davidson said. "We couldn't hold 'em." "We might have to," Brand said. "They can't be much better off than we are." "They haven't been under full power as long as we have," Davidson replied. Brand nodded in agreement but said, "Better check all our systems." Then to Wisse:. "How far away?" "Less than halfway up the slope." the other replied. "It'll take them a good ten minutes to get up here." And if the Fuzzies don't show up in another ten minutes... Brand let his thoughts trail off. "Come on back," he said. While he waited for Wisse's return he made a quick read-out of his suit systems and wished he hadn't. The suit was worse off than he thought. More than half of his all-important feedback circuits had already gone to backups and a few were out altogether. Ammunition was just about gone, as was the internal air supply, though he could switch to external if things didn't get too hot. Fuel for the reaction pack was next to nothing and his power cells -- well, you could expect only so much out of the thumbnail-size cells these suits carried and he had been running i hard ever since he hit the atmosphere just after the beginning of New Iowa's long night. "How is it?" he asked Davidson. "The suit? Still working but I don'thave much power left. Hour or two." You're ahead of me... Brand read the time. The Dravians were an impossible seven-anda-half minutes late. Wisse was back and began to check out his own suit systems. " "You act like you're runnin' the show now. Brand," DaVidson said. "How.do you figure it?" "L don't," Brand answered. "I just wait here until theycome for us' "And what if they don't come?" Wisse asked, that edge of panic returning to his.vQice...Brand's voice was cold. "They will." How can you be so damn sure?" Davidson demanded. "They ain't people. How do you know what they decided to do. Hell, man, we don't even know why we're fightin' here." "How long have we been working for the Fuzzies?" Brand asked. "Nearly a standard," Davidson replied. "Have they ever failed us yet?" "Like Wisse said -- " "They'll show! In the meantime we'd better prepare a defensive position." IF "You're out of your mind," Davidson said. , "Wisse counted fourteen of 'em. We got no choice but to run." Obviously Davidson did not like to use the word but he used it. "We can carry the homer so the Fuzzies'll know where we are." "The homer was for us," Brand said as matter-of-factly as he could "They're not using it. They've got their own systems." "Still, they could monitor it," Wisse said. "They said they'd pick us up here," Brand said. "Yeah, and they said they'd do it nine minutes ago." T HE three men stood glaring at each other through the thick helmets of their cqmbat suits. Maybe the others could run, Brand thought, for a little while. They had more reserve power than he had -- their suits were in better shape. But he knew that his suit would not carry him more than a couple of kilofneters. And when he did have to fight again he wanted some power for what weapons systems he had left. "Ten minutes now," Davidson said, his voice oddly quiet. "In less than five they're going to come busting over that crest and those boys are mad. I ain't fool enough to stand around and wait for them." "Wait five more minutes," Brand said, neither commanding nor begging. He no longer gave a damn what they did. "No," Davidson said and looked to Wisse for agreement. "We're taking the homer and we're heading for those peaks over to the east! Maybe if we get there we can hold them off." "For how long?" "A hell of a lot longer than we could from here." Eleven minutes. 'Maybe the Dravians really aren't coming... They aren't human. How do you know what they're really thinking? During these agonizing waits, memories flashed through Brand's mind -- one of the Dravians coming to Breakdown Heights and hiring a troop of mercenaries to drive the colonists from Old Earth off colonists and Earih's federation called the planet. Mercenaries prided themselves on being what they were -- why not fight against humans on the side of a bunch of stubby, red, six-legged Dravians? The Fuzzies paid in hard cash and what did the men of Breakdown Heights owe New Iowa, or even Earth? Breakdowners had fought for and against just about every sentient race in the galaxy anyway. What did a little terrorism on New Iowa matter? But what if the Dravians had decided not to pay off?  The eventuality seemed un# likelyr The Fuzzies didn't work that way. The Dravians would come. They had simply been delayed. By what? Twelve minutes. At last Davidson spoke again. "You cornin' with us?" "Take the homer. I'll stay here." "You're a damn fool." "We'll see." Brand turned his attention away from the others and began to searching for something that resembled a defensive position. He saw a few trees and a few boulders -- and up ahead about half a kilometer or so was a sizable depression in the ground, as well sheltered as anything on the plateau. "Brand," Davidson said suddenly after he had picked up the homing transmitter and tucked it under his arm. "Come with us. You don't stand a chance here."  "I don't have power enough to make it halfway to those'peaks of yours," he said slowly, bitterly. "I'm better off here." Thirteen minutes. The combatsuited and deadly furious New Iowans would be coming over the crest any time now. "I guess you know what you're doing," Davidson said. "I hope you do," Brand replied. Brand could hear Davidson's snort through the earphones of his helmet but none of the three men 'Spoke again. , panions. Brand bit down on the l switch that broke him from the radio link and, as quickly as he could, crossed the distance to the depression. By the time he reached : it and turned to look back, David: son and Wisse had vanished, moving toward the peaks some kilometers away. He wondered if they would make it and what they would do when they got there. Settling down in what protection the broken earth, stone and few trees offered, he threw one more glance skyward. Nothing. No bright movement there to indicate the arrival of. the Dravians. His gaze dropped to the edge of the plateau, where the fourteen New Iowans would soon be arriving. That some people might consider this a batf way to die never entered his mind. His father and his father before him had died on alien worlds, fighting other people's battles. He had always expected to go that way, too. But he had hoped, for a few more visits to Breman's Planet before that time came. Well, he could remember the last visit -- and that had been one hell of a.time. He shifted the energy rifle from his backpack, fitted it into the suit's shoulder socket, checked the weapon's internal power and was gratified to see that it still had a little charge. He could draw from his Suit cells for the rifle but deIF tided against it He would need that power for other things. the plateau's horizon, he waited. And while he waited he ' could not help but wonder about the sincerity of the aliens for whom he worked. They had never before given him any reason to doubt them. Now he could only wait a little longer, give them the benefit of his doubts and hope they would show up soon. Then he saw, through his night visor, the infrared glow of a man's warm body and the heat of an op? erating combat suit. He felt no recoil as the energy rifle fired. The partially dimmed by the night visor and the polarization of the helmet's filters. For an instant the combat-suited figure blazed with the same light -- then exploded. One down. Brand flashed a time reading on the inside of his helmet. The Fuzzies were a full fifteen minutes late. No further movement came along the horizon for a while. When it did come it was hard to see, even with the night visor. The New Iowans had cut back on the infrared emission of their suits -- damned good suits for a bunch of farmers. They were almost invisible when they topped the crest, six or seven of them at once, and rushed forward. Brand depressed the firing stud of the rifle, made a quick sweep across his field of fire and saw at least one man fall backward down the slope, his combat suit exploding flames. The others, though, fell forward, their arms arching above their heads as, suit-assisted, they threw. Grenades shattered the earth and rocks of the plateau. The colonists had had no time to get his position. They were throwing blind. Brand licked the dryness of his lips, pulled at his suit's water nipple: A dozen meters or less to his left a grenade exploded, showering him with broken stone, shaking the earth under him. Brand replied in kind but he did not have to throw. A tube slid up over his left shoulder. He guided the grenade launcher with his left hand, aiming it, then triggering it to throw out its two remaining bombs. And he was not firing blindly. He had a damned good idea of where the colonists were. The Jiext explosions were more distant as his grenades fell near the plateau's edge. He thought he saw a twisted figure fly into the air but he was not sure, nor did he waste time concerning himself with it. He had too much to do. The remaining colonists had crossed the crest. They had their own energy rifles, maybe ten or twelve of them. More than half were firing -- and now they knew where he was. His rifle blazed. He caught a rising man full in its glare and the man died in the flames. Suddenly the colonists' weapons became still as an enormously amplified voice called out, "Cease firmg. Now what? Brand, too, stilled his weapon. "Mercenary," the voice called out, "listen to me. This is Lieutenant Hamid of the Federation Marines." Federation troops? Brand no longer wondered why his opposition had not behaved like farmers and clerks. By now he had pinpointed the exact location of the loud speaker. He aimed the rifle. "Surrender, you fool," the marines officer's voice boomed across the plateau. "You're fighting your own kind. You don't know what you've gotten into. The Dravians... are -- But by now Brand had pressed the firing stud and the marine lieutenant would never speak another word. He died in an exploding combat suit. Brand fired again, sweeping across the plateau with the energy rifle until he saw its blaze trickle down to a pale light, then fade out, its charge exhausted. He shrugged, snapped the weapon from its socket, ignored its fall and launched a homing rocket from the sleeve of his right arm. What were Federation Marines doing in this? He wondered. New Iowa was not in the federation. him, lifting him bodily into the air, throwing him back to the tortured earth. He fell on his left shoulder, his teeth grating in agony. He rolled over and came up to his knees, trying to orient himself, and then, snapping back the night visor, he turned his eyes upward in one last frantic sweep of the sky in the hope that -- there it was, a moving spot of light, too slow to be a meteor, coming down, still slowing. He turned back toward his attackers -- there seemed to be more than Wisse had counted -- feeling the growing sluggishness of his suit, the growing weight of a left arm whose feedback circuits were hardly working. He tried to find the rendezvous spot, recognized it on the almost featureless plateau. The marines had not yet reached it. He took no time to count his remaining rockets. He merely loosed them in a steady stream toward the marines until the magazine was empty and the plateau was a blaze of exploding missiles. For a few instants the marines were disorganized. Brand came erect slowly. His suit was definitely failing. Circuits IF were damaged. Power was running low. Feedback was almost unresponsive at times. But he did get to his feet and he started running, snatching the unused slugthrowing pistol from his hip and firing explosive shells before him as he ran. The marines took too little time to recover, to aim at the running, leaping figure. An energy beam laced the earth before him, setting grass aflame. He jetted over it. Another beam lashed into his backpack, where something exploded. His gyros failed...He tumbled. in mid-air, fell crashing to the earth, his back burned and blistered, his lips broken against the faceplate of the helmet. He staggered to his feet, somewhere dimly between consciousness and unconsciousness. He stumbled, regained ' his footing, ran. Now the flame in the sky had become a distinct object, a short, stubby, wingless Dravian corvette, and its crew had seen the battle below. Energy cannons, one from each side of the ship, fired toward the marines. Brand sighed a grateful sob and fell to his knees. One, two -- perhaps a dozen shots were sent toward the corvette before the marines broke in panic, fell back toward the edge of the plateau. They knew they were not up to taking on the ship's cannon. Somehow Brand was on his feet again. He fired a few meaningless shots after them. Then he awkwardly ran on toward the landing spot. The corvette's final descent rockets fired. The ship hovered for a moment, then slowly, gently lowered itself to the ground. It had hardly touched down when Brand reached its side, paused, searched for the air lock. He found it as it began to open. He staggered in and the air cycle began. A single Dravian was waiting for him inside. If a Terran mammal had tried to look like a spider but had forgotten to add the final two legs, it might have somewhat resembled a Dravian -- but not much. The roughly egg-shaped body was mounted on six legs, each of which ended in an appendage that could function either as a' foot or a hand as the occasion required. Body and legs were covered with a short, reddish-bronze hair that rippled constantly, ventilating the skin below. Dravian features, half a dozen eyes, an equal number of nostrils, a wide, slack mouth, fringed hearing organs, wer all fixed in the forward, smaller end of the egg. These were what faced Brand and spoke to him in astonishingly Anglo-Terran. "Where are the others?" the Dravian asked. It took a few moments for the words to sink in. The suit's audio receptors were working fine. Brand's mind was not. "Dead, all but two of them," he replied at last, realizing how much that last sprint had taken from him. "And the other two?" "Up in the hills," Brand told him. "They were afraid you wouldn't come. You were late." He could not read Dravian symbols, so he could not determine tjie alien's rank from the badges he wore on his back. "Regrettable but unavoidable," the Dravian said. "Come with me. The Dravian led him down the passageway to the area of the ship that had been adapted for human passengers. "Go in," the Dravian said. "Administer to yourself and change clothing. The captain will wish to see you at once." "Okay," Brand said, fighting the pain of his burned back and the fatigue that was washing over his body. "But about the others -- " "Do not concern yourself with them," the Dravian said and gently pushed him into the man-size airlock that led into the empty human quarters. Brand was out of the combat suit, had been treated by an automedic programed for humans and had dressed himself in thermal coveralls. He slipped oxygen tanks and a cooler onto his back, a fishbowl helmet over his head and stepped back into the airlock, feeling a little more than half alive,. What bothered him most as he cycled back out through the air lock and into the corridor where the Dravian waited for him was the fact that the corvette was in flight and already out of New Iowa's atmosphere. He had felt the ship lift while he was changing, had heard the whistle of air along the hull as it thinned into the vacuum of space. Stepping out of the lock, he could not help but feel a moment of almost irrational anger. "Aren't you going to pick up my companions?" he demanded, wondering why he cared. They had deserted him. "We have no time," the Dravian replied, pointing down the corridor and gesturing for Brand to walk in front of him. "We have a rendezvous to keep." "They'll be killed down. there," Brand said, annoyed at himself. "We are sorry," the Dravian said in such a way that Brand knew there was no point in discussing it further. A silence held between Brand and the Fuzzy until they reached a hatch that he was directed to enter alone. Ducking to pass through the hatch, Brand found himself in the suite of an alien whom he recognized, if only from the numer( Please turn to page # ) IF This is the earth bound story of Charlie Three -- and a stardweller N OT that it made any difference but it was daylight. He became aware of the familiar numbness in his legs and when his vision partially cleared he could see that snowflakes were gathering on his pants legs. His neck jerked and his hands flailed before the right impulse reached his knees and drew his feet up under him. A warm body beside him grumbled at the disturbance and struck out in dumb protest. He tried to twist and turn away the numbness, but the effort brought only pain. His hands were, useless and seemed to maintain an uncontrollable position in front of his chest, wrists limply touching. There was no longer a sense of hunger in him and he did not know how desperately he needed food. There was only an aching urge to find a dark corner. Stumbling from the doorway, he half fell and half crawled across the sidewalk to the gutter. Using the cars and parking meters for support, he made his way slowly along the street, trying to find a spot. In final desperation he clung to a pole, gave up and relaxed. And soon, in the freezing snowblown air, he wished he hadn't. A trash receptacle furnished . him with newspapers he wadded up and shoved down his trousers to hold away the cloth. He stuck the others into his coat as best he could for what warmth they gave and staggered off. His body was still numb and his chest hurt. Trembling, he waited for the inevitable. Yet within him still was desire for warmth, for hope, for life. clearance papers into the sleeve pocket of his flight tunic and left through the air-barrier exit of Spaceport Operations. He picked his way among the maze of signs and ramp passages until he found the hallway leading to the Port Controller's office. As he approached a turn in the corridor his nostrils were stung by the sickening sweet odor of wine, quickly followed by a more characteristic odor. Space bums, he thought and set his features to meet them. Turning the corner, Foster had to catch himself in midstride to avoid falling among them. They were scattered about the floor in an incredible tangle, making it impossible for him to pass. With a glance at their multicolored silks, Foster guessed there were from eight to ten of them. He swung a heavy boot toward the nearest body. "Get out of my way, damn it." His foot was caught in its flight so abruptly that he was forced to grab the wall to remain erect. A seven-inch throwing knife quivered so close to the other boot that the blade nicked the sole. The holder of Foster's foot slowly raised his eyelids studying all of Foster until their eyes met. "Do that again, off-worlder, and without doubt you'll leave here on a stretcher." The foot was thrown back like a wad of paper and the captain staggered to regain his balance and composure. The man retrieved his' knife with deliberate motions and retained his blocking position. Breaking the deadly silence. The Speaker moved away from the wall. "Ah, you'll have to forgive The Gladiator, good Captain. His manIF neris not polished for men of high station." "What do you want from me?" Foster asked indignantly. The Speaker bowed from the waist and waved his arm in a sweeping gesture at the men who had gotten to their feet during the exchange. "Passage for an Entertainer, Captain." Foster eyed the three figures disdainfully and started to refuse. A bone-crushing grip on his ankle changed his mind. "All right, let's see what you've got." The pressure eased. "Come forward, Paddy," said The Speaker and one of the Entertainers stepped into the center of the corridor. He reached inside of his harlequin-marked tunic and deftly produced five differently colored balls. As each ball spun into motion it was readily apparent that Paddy was a master juggler. The balls flew between his hands only briefly before they burst into flames. When the last globe had ignited Paddy moved control to one hand. The walls reflected a blur of multicolored fire for several seconds before he pulled the balls in. As each stopped its motion the flames winked out. "Marvelous," said Foster, genuinely impressed. "But the Armeter is a free-fall ship. Of what use would a juggler be to me or my men?" v The Speaker nodded in thoughtful agreement. "You're right, of course. Captain. I should have thought of it myself. Well, here we have The Searcher -- " indicating another Entertainer. "He's a mentalist." The Searcher remained leaning against the wall and Foster eyed the greenish cast of his skin with prejudice. He had no use for Butans or their poison planet. "Think of a card. Captain," said The Searcher. Foster closed his eyelids slowly, indicating that he had done so. "The eight of stars," said The Searcher confidently. , "The nine of hearts," corrected Foster and then, turning to The Speaker: "He needs more practice. Anything else?" "Only Tokay, our beloved minstrel." The Speaker smiled thinly. A small, gnomelike man stepped forward, swinging down a guitar from behind his back. He, nodded to Foster as his fingers quickly checked the tune of the instrument. Tokay was the leader of the group and The Planter of the seeds. The mission depended on his being aboard the starship Armeter when she lifted. The Searcher moved into Foster's mind and waited for Tokay to begin his song. Foster listened automatically. "All right, that's enough. You'll do." Foster didn't care for the music himself but his crew was constantly trying to sing some ribald lyric or other and now a change of sound would do them all good. He was not even slightly aware of The Searcher's guidance or withdrawal. Tokay bowed. "Thank you." "The ship is on pad twelve and we leave within the hour. Be there. I won't wait. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must see the Controller." The pressure on his ankle increased again as he started to leave. "What?" he asked, looking about. "The ramp pass, good Captain," said The Speaker. "Oh." Foster swore under his breath. He took out a pad of paper and scribbled on it. He pushed his command ring against the pad and, tearing off a sheet, handed it to Tokay. The grip on his ankle broke and the group of Entertainers parted. The captain hastened along the corridor without looking back. The Speaker put his hand on Tokay's shoulder as they watched the captain walk away. "I wish it could have been someone else. Be careful of him, Tokay. He's a bad one." Tokay smiled and his space-wizened wrinkles cracked with the effort. "I'll stay out of his way. I don't take kindly to being kicked." The Gladiator grunted and wiped his palms across his garment. ers lay against the outside wall of the Operations building, watching the Armeter climb through the daylight black sky on a tail of ion hell. Small tornadoes of sand and grit whirled about as the thunderous sound vibrated their bodies and threatened to collapse their lungs. And then, in diminishing squares, the ship was gone except for a faint point of light. Paddy pulled from his bottle and said excitedly, "There she goes -- the last world. It's been a long time but it was worth the wait." Some sighed and many made sounds of agreement. The Speaker shook his head and disagreed gently. "I wonder if anything is ever really over. There will always be another world. And if, by some chance, there isn't -- there will always be another cause. It seems to be part of the curse, of existing that man must forever search out a cause and dedicate himself to it." The Searcher had been following the tiny, receding point of light high above the Spaceport. As it dimmed out, the scene gradually changed for the Entertainers. Warm earth supported their bodies and a hot sun burned down on them. A gentle breeze stirred the heart-shaped leaves that spread out, row upon row, across the easy rolling hills. Each man IF reacted to the vision in his own way and a casual passerby, staring at the unfocusing eyes, might have wondered why men would degrade themselves to such a level. A week passed before one of the sleek, silver starships of the Federal Police Agency landed. to seeing him as they walked by. Their eyes were open and focusing and still they parted.around him like waves meeting a coral reef. He would lurch from one to another, trying to beg for money, but they would only quickly change their steps and dodge him. And usually, when his frustration had mounted to unbearable limits, he would make the mistake of grabbing a passing arm. He would be spun away or knocked down. Often, then, he would sit and cry as the masses flowed above him and left him alone with his need. A feeling of something in his hand. Paper. Sometimes a dollar. Once a five. An elderly lady talking to ears that could not separate the words but understood the tone. She was telling him to use the money for food, to clean up and to get hold of himself. He would nod continuously as the drumming voice went on and then he would try to find the person's face so he could stare into it with what he hoped was sincerity. And say, over and over, "Bless you, ma'am, bless you.' She would move away, shaking her head to clear her memory and her conscience as she left him to the endless stream of life. Somehow he would stagger erect, clenching both hands, since he could not be sure which held the dollar. His eyes magnetically sought out the large and burning signs of hope. All would do. They no longer gave him change or, if they did, he never picked it up. The dollar was always exchanged for a bottle and an urgent hand that ushered him from the store. He was unable to open the bottles, so he would break off the necks and drink from the jagged edges. His lips were heavily scarred and scabbed but for his purposes it didn't matter. Clutching the bottle to himself, he sought out a place where he could drink it alone. Fortunately companionship wasn't one of his problems. T HE smuggling of native fauna or flora between any of the forty-nine worlds of the Federation was a capital crime. The dominant philosophy of peaceful coexistence was based on a mutual need for varying produce, interworld commerce. The Federation's Commerce Department monitored and duplicated all records of transactions, subsidies. trends and emergency parities. Its police enforced the rules. The Spaceports were little more than huge warehouse and packaging complexes where imported products were either disinfected or sterilized and repackaged for in-planet shipping. Perishable items were inspected and sealed at the port of shipment. The immensity of the system made it awkward to police, since the computers were programed to extract corporate smugglings for profit on a high-yield basis. The efforts of the Entertainers took years to detect. The time of detection was further compounded in that the yield of the first vines came years after the initial planting occurred and required several more years before the fledgling industries reached the point of being able to export their products. After establishing the case, the Commerce Department released its jurisdiction to the Federal Poproblems in that the case lacked reason or motive. Years passed be-' fore the establishment of two crusue the criminals. First, all the smuggled vines were of the Earth varieties. There were nine planets in the Federation that possessed native grapes. One, Butus #, was poisonous to all but the natives. All the smuggled grapes were of the Emperor, Concord, Ribier and Catawba strains. The planting pattern was random. Muscat appeared on one planet. Secondly, the age of the vines, the size of the vineyards and the development of the industries search for a profit motive yielded nothing. The seeding was done more or less in a circle tangential, to Earth. The circle was twenty years old and nearing completion. last three worlds and hoped they had not missed the boat. The effort was not merely one of saving face and punishing the law-breakers. Planetary laws were very strict about off-world smuggling but very lenient, if extant, concerning on-world smuggling. Each world would insist that it had developed or discovered the smugless to destroy the crop or animals unless a court conviction established their case. So thevines grew and flourished while the when Phobus I appeared on the Armeter's wrap-warning screen Captain Foster grinned from ear to ear. The music on board was driving him crazy. It wouldn't have been so bad except that the bum kept singing the same song over and over. IF Foster activated his intercom to his officers' quarters. "Phobus on scan. Front and center." He heard a hurried, "Aye-aye -- " and muffled sounds of scurrying feet. He switched off the communicator and prepared to set the ship down. Phobus was a cool planet by most standards. Its vegetation reflected purplish hues as the Arnieter descended. It was a sandy world and lacked the huge oceans of water common to most Federation planets. But its water table was high and its solar characteristics assured a constant season. Once the Armeter was on pad and clamped in place, Foster directed Tokay to meet him at the portal and personally escorted the little Entertainer from the ship. The familiar green and blue uniform of a Port Authority Inspector waited at the bottom of the glide for them to descend. The plainly dressed man beside the inspector also waited. Badges over each breast pocket identified him as an At the bottom of the ramp, Foster gave Tokay a shove toward the Inspector. "Here's one you can have with my blessings." "Hey, watch it, off-worlder," said Tokay as he stumbled to regain his balance. Turning to the inspector: "Where's my pals?" Seeing that Tokay was an Entertainer, the' inspector returned his attention to the board of invoice sheets and hooked a thumb over one shoulder toward a building marked Port Warehouse, Ramp E. Tokay flipped his hand from his forehead in a gesture of acknowledgment and, as he turned to leave, made a more explicit finger motion to Foster. Entertainers were never checked. They only carried what was on their backs and all seemed to have a peculiar aversion to being decontaminated, so that they never attempted to leave the Ports. People readily avoided their company and the Authority considered them minimum risks. Tokay felt some justification for the jerk in his chest when the please." Tokay raised an eyebrow and turned to face a scanner being used on his back. "Yes?" The agent motioned to the guitar. "Let me see that for a moment." Tokay swung the instrument casually from his shoulder and handed it over. The agent ran his finger along the seams of the instrument, then drew a telescoping probe from his pocket. He pushed the tool between the strings and into the well and soon was tapping at two partitions on both sides of the lower half of the sound box. "What's in these?" "Bottles," answered Tokay without hesitation. The agent handed back the guitar. "Open it up." Tokay turned the guitar over and gently pressed the spine just beneath the well. The hinged lids of the compartments sprang open, exposing two long-necked and empty bottles. The agent withdrew them and checked both for Federation Tax and Export stamps before setting them aside. With an amused smile he asked, "Doesn't that give you bad resonance?" "Not so much. The inner walls are just plywood that fall open when the compartment is empty. This spring on the back is strong enough to hold th wood together so tightly that the vibrations are not interrupted." Tokay snapped the lids shut to a resounding hum. "Ingenious. Now, step back, please." Tokay stepped back, holding his arms out to their extremes. When he turned full circle he kept his body between the scanner and the guitar. The agent nodded. "All right. You can go." "What about my bottles?" asked Tokay. "Confiscated," answered the agent sternly. Tokay decided not to push it and hurried off.' As he left, he could hear the agent explaining to the inspector and Foster. "Never met one that didn't have a bottle on him somewhere. They fill them up again with God knows what kind of poison when they can't, buy wine -- and that's a crime, you know." Butan moved out of nowhere and fell in beside the little Entertainer. "I thought you were going to need help. I'm Serteze, The Searcher here." "It was close. I'm Tokay, The Planter. We haven't met before, have we?" "No. I was recruited after Garm was killed in a warpburn." Tokay swallowed. "Oh -- I hadn't heard." He and Garm had planted nine worlds together and had shared many drinks. "Sorry," said The Searcher. "I thought you had heard." Tokay tried to shake away his feeling of grief. He thought of the mind. The Searcher put a block on it that would pass after Tokay slept and eased out carefully. It was forbidden to enter the mind of an Entertainer. "Where did the police come from?" They reached the wall of the warehouse. Serteze indicated a direction. all over this place for several IF weeks now. They've drugged everyone in the Port except us. It's about the vines but I haven't been able to pick up anything positive. I think they're still pretty much in the dark. I doubt if they have any real suspects or even a clue as to where to look." The Searcher's fingers moved in front of him in smooth scanning patterns as he walked. "They seem to be a little late, don't they?" said Tokay with a broad and beaming smile. "That's the beauty of it." The Searcher smiled back as he stopped before a metal door. "Here we are." Tokay stepped through the doorway into a narrow hallway that opened into a reactor cooling chamber of pipes and valves. Beside one of the huge generators a group of Entertainers waited. The Searcher waved Tokay forward and stayed back to feel out the area around the hallway. Stepping forward, Tokay said, "I am Tokay, The Planter." The group beamed and someone handed Tokay a chilled bottle. "Fruit of the vine. Planter?" The Searcher, satisfied that they had not been followed, joined the group in time to make the end of the second pass. Tokay knew several of the faces and had worked with them before on other worlds. But attrition had taken its toll and there were several new faces. Introductions were swift. The urgent press of affairs was upon all. be well on his way before dawn. He ate hurriedly, then inspected the seeds. A fret was removed from the middle of the guitar neck, which broke neatly in half, revealing hollows filled with little cellophane bags full of seeds. Tokay inspected each packet for mold while Serteze described the conditions of the land he had found only two hundred miles from the Spaceport. Dangerously close -- but since this was the last planting it really didn't matter. Native clothes were produced, along with identification seals and a Port pass. Tokay changed as he listened to the intense briefing. The farmers who would host him would have a vehicle waiting five miles south of the Port to transport him to the farm. Tokay reassembled the neck of the guitar, checked the tune of the instrument and reset the strings. Goodbyes were brief and the little musician hurried off with. The Searcher, eager to finish his mission...As the pair approached the huge, triple-trapped gateway of the Port, Serteze picked up the minds of the guards and locked them down. With a pat on the back, he sent Tokay scurrying among them. Alarms broke loose with the intensity of sound of a starship's takeoff and The Searcher had to bear down extremely hard to hold the Port personnel's The guards continued to march their posts without concern and were unable to acknowledge the flashing red and blue alarm lights and the noise. Tokay scampered over a distant hill as the first emergency vehicles rolled up to reinforce the gate. The Searcher relaxed and dropped a cloak over himself and calmly walked away from the scene of confusion. it was snowing again. A police car rolled by and the tires made a crushing, sucking sound against the ice. He was no longer bothered by the police. They only took in the ones who could sober up and he had long since passed that stage. So they left him alone and called him Charlie Three. He ignored them now but they watched him just the same. The world was two-dimensional to him now. Everything was something that could be touched or it did not exist. The fear of falling was gone from him. He knew no panic as he pitched forward and bounced against the pavement. He knew the surface would support his body while he waited for the pain to subside. The snow was cool and soothing against his forehead. He felt hot even though the ragged Cotton suit was his only clothing in the freezing air. Breathing hurt and the effort seemed to make him even shorter of breath. Eventually he became aware that he was sick with a new and different type of sickness. He could feel a force welling up inside that pushed him to try to get help. He staggered to his feet and stumbled along in the snow, repeating in an unbroken litany, "Help me, please -- oh, God, it hurts. Help me, please, oh, God -- " It had been dark a very long time and mo one was on the streets to hear the plea. No one to help. No one could so it really didn't matter that no one would. Tokay would wait outside the perimeter of the Port for night to fall and forThe Searcher to scan his presence. But this was the last planting and Tokay was careless to the point of walking up to the gate carrying his guitar. The guards turned to watch his approach. Their attention was not normal had made a mistake broke upon The Planter. He licked his lips, swallowed his heart and bolted. The calls to halt were probably given but Tokay was running for his life and could hear nothing but the blood pounding in his ears. A beam grazed his hip and flung him to the ground in agony. The guards were upon him almost at once and, as he was hoisted to his feet, he felt the bite of a hypo in his shoulder. The will to struggle went out of him. He was shoved into the sidecar. Tokay did not feel himself pass out. Both Searchers waited for the quarters. Major Porter switched off the recorder as Tokay's voice began to stammer and fajter. The drug was wearing off and the major waited patiently. He had all the information he needed for a conviction of the Entertainers. However, he did not have the whole truth. His visitors had carefully seen to that. Tokay's vision came back in flashes and he knew his eyes had been open. He recognized the and, remembering the shot in his arm, knew he had been drugged. His face showed panic when he saw the recorder. Porter reached forward and patted thedevice. "It's all here. Planter. Sorry." Tokay tried to shake off the scene but it remained stronger than ever. Porter had been drugged many times to familiarize him with the effects on subjects he interrogated. He persisted: "You almost got away with it."  "The seeds are planted. What happens to me doesn't matter too much," Tokay said. "You're both noble and stupid. Once we take this evidence to court we'll have the authority to destroy those plants of yours and you'll be disintegrated along with your friends." "And it only took you twenty years to catch up," said Tokay. "What gave us away?" Porter's smile passed. He nodded several times. "I'd like to be able to say that we outsmarted you but we didn't. Embarrassing, really. It was so obvious that we overlooked you completely. We had a party one looked for you to play for us, disovered your absence and then the whole thing came crashing down on me. Fate beat you, Planter -- ous tone of admiration in the agent's voice and Tokay fought back an impulse to warm to the man. He looked at the ceiling, shrugged and made no sound. "Tell me one thing. Planter," Porter continued. "Why did you do it? Why spend twenty years of your life planting grape vines? Knowing you'd' be caught -- knowing the penalty was death -- what was in it for you?" "You wouldn't understand. Your kind never does," Tokay answered slowly. "Try me." Tokay met Porter's gaze and held it. "All right. I'll try. The reasons are subjective and they require feeling to be understood. A man of law can't have much feeling." It was Porter's turn to stare silently and wait. Tokay rubbed his hands together in concentration, trying to find words. "Man evolved as a part of the natural order of things. And everything had a balance, a design, a reason it was as it should be. Came civilization with its society and its law. Man learned to own things -- even other men. He became greedy and possessive. Some of us still believe no one can own anything without upsetting nature's balance. Own land? Own water or air or animals -- and even whole worlds? We believe that each man has a born need for and a right to life's gifts, all of them. Do you see what I'm trying to say?" Porter nodded. "Sure. You're saying that in matters dealing with natural resources man is above the law. Isn't that about it?" Tokay raised his hands in frustration and sank backward in his chair. "In your language -- and above some laws. I'm saying that a law that forbids free exchange of animals and plants solely for purposes commerce is wrong. The law in itself is a crime against man. We have been freeing your worlds." The agent smiled. "Crime is a word of law, Planter. It cannot be that a law is a crime -- that would be a paradox. The laws of trade and commerce in our system have prevented war and negating them is your crime against man. You have -- in a minor way to be sure -- threatened the peace and must pay." Tokay's fist slammed down on the agent's desk. His eyes flashed. He yelled, "Greed brings war. Inequality brings war. Helplessness and hopelessness bring war. And by damn, Porter, idiots bring war." "A simple fanatic, that's all you are. A simple fanatic, And I thought you had a reason for all this." Porter shook his head. "In your small way, Planter, you have failed," he said with finality and reached to call his guards. He did not see the paperweight slide from his desk and ascend behind his back. The sudden motion almost sparked a cry of warning from the startled Tokay but he managed to bite it off. The weapon descended and Porter pitched out across his desk top. A blood-speckled bruise appeared on his forehead. Serteze and Garm appeared simultaneously. "Garm -- " whispered Tokay in disbelief. "The reports of the death of Garm have been greatly exaggerated as they say." The Seacher grinned as he removed the recorder's capsule and slipped it into his tunic. ( Please turn to page # ) IF Here you have There you have the D I A. T HE Prime Minister glanced at his appointment schedule and then at the visitor his secretary conducted into his office. Here was a soldier, he thought. Tall, strong, young and obviously enthusiastic. "General Devlin, D. I. A., Mr. Prime Minister." The secretary introduced the visitor and withdrew. "Special briefing on the Panda War, Mr. Prime Minister," Devlin said as they shook hands. The hellburn of Devlin's handsome features looked very much like suntan and the initials of his office. Demon In Attendance, coincided happily with those of the Defense Intelligence Agency. "You may call me 'sir,' son," the Prime Minister told Devlin as they sat down. "We're all soldiers in this war." He looked gravely at Devlin, his features taking on a kindly, sorrowful cast. "Bad news, is it?" "A troubled situation, sir," Devlin replied, "but full of opportunity. You'll want to hear the details first. Colonel MacReady will brief you on the military situation." Devlin turned to the office door and the Prime Minister followed his gaze. The spruce, middle-aged figure in the doorway had not passed the secretary. It was a phantasm. Hell does not have demons in unlimited supply. The chimeras which threaten saints and the succubi who tempt them are largely illusory. They are the product at once of a demon's art and of the imagination of the tempted. In their place, phantasmagoria are more than a substitute fof demons -- they are a flexible weapon of great subtlety. Thus, "Colonel MacReady" told the Prime Minister what Devlin felt it necessary for him to hear but, beyond that, responded to the Prime Minister's knowledge and fears. Never before had a briefing spoken so well to his particular condition of mind. The rapport persisted and strengthened as other phantasms told the Prime Minister what he expected to hear concerning the villages, the provincial administrations, the government in Harum, the Panda capital, the political situation and the exact status of the growing force of military advisors. The last of the phantasms left him with a forbidding picture. "So, the villages -- " the Prime Minister began. "Are dominated by the enemy," Devlin said. "The provincial administrations -- " "Are collecting taxes and ignoring both the enemy and the.central government." "The strong points -- " "Are illusory." "And the government we have supported to avoid this -- " "Is determined but incapable of acting and beset by an unsympathetic majority," Devlin concluded. "But their failure need not be our failure -- or the failure of the Pandas." A light of expectant eagerness broke through the Prime Minister's expression of soulful resignation. "What more do you propose?" he asked sharply. "Sir, do we support the present Panda government or the cause of the people;?" Devlin asked. IF "We've always told Dang that he has our support," the Prime Minister said. "I sort of like him because he's tough; But we've given him enough supplies to finish off anyone who opposes him anywhere. And they turn up in the hands of the enemy." The expression of benevolent concern returned to the face of the Prime Minister. "Whatever we have told Dang -- our duty is of course to the Pandas," he said. "Anyone can see -- will see -- that our promises were meant in that sense. The Pandas must not suffer. Certainly not because of any commitments given to an ineffective government on their behalf. As for Dang -- " "If we do no more for Dang -- " Devlin said. "Someone will," the Prime Minister concluded, shaking his head sadly. "And sir," Devlin added, "giving our support to the unsympathetic majority will show that we act neither through religious prejudice nor through selfish bias." The Prime Minister . said, "There are good men of all faiths. I suppose that the Foreign Office will tell me the' names of the new government?" "I suppose so, sir," Devlin answered, rising to go. The Prime Minister rose also, put his hand on Devlin's shoulder and walked to the door with him. "Mine is a heavy burden," he said. "I know it is, sir," Devlin agreed, quietly and solemnly. "And a mao needs all the support -- loyal support -- that comes his way. You've lightened my burden today." A note of campaigning came into his voice. "We need everyone's help," he said, smiling encouragingly at Devlin. "It's up to every loyal man to do his part. We need consensus. We need support. We need votes. Every friend. Every organization. You work and your friends, your associates work, I'm sure." "We're all for you, every one," Devlin assured him. The Prime Minister gripped Devlin's shoulder, released it and grasped his hand. "You're the kind we need," he said. "I'll see you again?" "Many times, I hope, sir," Devlin replied. "Any time, any time -- " the Prime Minister told him. He returned to his desk and looked at the next name on his schedule. Dang did not resolve the Panda situation. When Devlin came to the Prime Minister's office again several Panda governments had succeeded one another and  the military advisors had become a fighting army. He greeted Devlin warmly -- if sadly -- and listened to the precise briefings of the phantasms with gloomy appreciation. Then he addressed Devlin expectantly. "The government -- " he said. "Is ineffective," Devlin replied. "The people -- " "The people are harassed by the enemy and they suffer when we attack the enemy in their midst," Devlin told him. "The enemy -- " "Is effective and elusive, sir." A pregnant pause ensued. "Sir, the enemy must be countered in his homeland," Devlin proposed. "We must stop the flow of supplies. It's the only way to spare our troops and our Pandas." "The war hasn't been carried outside of Panda," mused the Prime Minister. "Would our people accept it if we did?" "But the enemy has extended the war, sir," Devlin insisted. "How's that?" asked the Prime Minister alertly. "He attacked us on the high seas," Devlin insisted. "Oh, yes," the Prime Minister agreed. "Something like" that did happen. We sank two of his boats. Well, he extended the war. Let him suffer the consequences. I don't suppose that anyone would try a sneak attack here?" "Not a chance, sir." "But I do suppose that the enemy's cities and towns will be destroyed -- " "They will be," Devlin assured him, "incidental to the destruction of his supply lines." "It hurts me that any human life must be lost," the Prime Minister said sadly. "But the wicked bring destruction on themselves. 'He who lives by the sword -- '" he quoted grimly. "Will die by the sword." "I wonder if tle Panda religion teaches that?" the Prime Minister said. "I bear no ill will toward the enemy." Devlin nodded seriously. "Who will die," the Prime Minister continued, with an expression of pained righteousness. Devlin nodded again. "That our poor Pandas may be free," the Prime Minister concluded. They both sat quietly for a moment. The Prime Minister continued to look gravely benevolent. "I can always use loyal help," the Prime Minister reminded Devlin as he left. Devlin admired the Prime Minister's appearance on TV the following week, when he explained the new phase of the Panda war. The message carried a nation with' it but the enemy remained unconvinced. Some time later Devlin was back again. The briefing went as before. At its end the Prime Minister spoke. "The bombing -- " "Is as destructive as we expected but is less effective than it would have been in a civilized country," Devlin told him. "The government -- " IF "Still cannot carry the burden of the war." "The villages -- " "Are terrorized into supplying the enemy." The Prime Minister looked both sadly resigned and warily expectant. "Our obligation is not to any Panda government," Devlin said. "No," the Prime Minister said. "We have agreed on that." "Nor Panda goods or territory," Devlin continued. The Prime Minister nodded. "But to the future welfare of the Pandas themselves," Devlin said. The Prime Minister waited silently. "We can save the Pandas and destroy the resources of the enemy," Devlin asserted. "How?" the Prime Minister asked eagerly. "By razing the Pandas villages and destroying their fields and livestock," Devlin pronounced."I see," the Prime Minister said approvingly. "Instead of the Pandas supporting the enemy, we will support the Pandas. We will house those poor refugees of war in model camps -- " "In model resettlement areas, eventually," Devlin said, "where they will have modern housing and sanitation, nutritious food and advanced medical care." "They will be given all the advantages of civilization," the Prime Minister said warmly. "They will have fields and livestock, new implements and patterns of farming," Devlin continued. "Eventually," the Prime Minister interrupted. "That will come eventually -- Right now we must fix it so there's nothing for the enemy to confiscate. Not an animal, not a grain of rice, not even a blade of grass shall be left." "Of course," he added, "we must evacuate the countryside first wherever we can. But we must be thorough. It's the only way to save the Panda way of life. And people in this country are getting tired of our casualties. They want action." "We all suffer with you sir," Devlin said as he left. Prime Minister dwelt with sorrow and compassion on the plight of the Pandas, the danger to the nation and the self-sacrifice of its dedicated soldiers. He predicted some eventual end to the obduracy of the enemy. But other public commentators dwelled on destruction, wounds and death in enemy cities, in the Panda countryside and in military camps and hospitals. The nation had become bewildered by the protracted conflict into which it had poured its treasure, a conflict so far away and yet so destructive of what was near near and dear. People suffered but their suffering was no longer in sympathy with that of the Prime Minister. He was cheered to see Devlin again and to be briefed as before. "The enemy -- " he said. "Suffers increasing losses," Devlin said. The Prime Minister shook his head in wonder. "Our people -- " "Do not appreciate your sacrifices," Devlin told him softly. The Prime Minister looked at Devlin directly. "History?" he inquired. "I'm afraid that's too much to expect, sir," Devlin told him. "You would never agree to pay the price." "No," the Prime Minister said. "I wouldn't. I deserve recognition and approval and comfort right now. Wars have mostly been popular. I met a challenge to our way of life -- and to the Pandas', of course. Everything has gone wrong. I can't blame myself. I won't wait for justification and I won't lose what I still have. What I did must remain right and the best anyone could have done. I had more important things on my mind than the Pandas. The war got out of control. I may have lost my place in history. I don't enjoy office any more. People don't suffer with me any more. They go out of their way to make my life miserable. If I don't watch out I'll lose my peace of mind." The Prime Minister stared into space, more in anger than in sorrow. "You can -- " Devlin began. "Keep my peace of mind," the Prime Minister completed. "By -- " Devlin tried to interrupt. "Resigning from office," the Prime Minister continued. "First you can -- " "Agree to the enemy's chief demand." "And when deescalation seems imminent -- " "We'll clobber him good on the ground," the Prime Minister said with satisfaction. "That will -- " Devlin began. "Leave the problem in the hands of my successor." "Who will carry on your work -- with our support. While you retire to the country -- " "To live among neighbors who are friends." "With the satisfaction -- " Devlin started to say. "Of a job well done. No -- " the Prime Minister interrupted himself, "With the consciousness of having met challenges with fortitude and wisdom and having suffered evil in sorrow, not anger." Devlin left the office unnoticed, while the Prime Minister smiled at a pleasant future, content in his dearly purchased peace of mind. approached his superior. He IF was uneasier still when he had given his report. "The immediate reward for the things I suggested was always clear," he said. His superior nodded. "He always did what I suggested," Devlin said. Another nod. "The advantages proved illusory, yet he came back for more." Nod. "Yet I felt -- I felt that I never really had to tempt him," Devlin proposed. Another nod. "And in the end -- well, sir, he got ahead of me. I didn't even have to suggest. He said what I came prepared to say. "What did I do wrong, sir?" Devlin asked anxiously. "My own fall wasn't like that at all." "Nothing wrong, Devlin," his superior assured him. "The plan was straightforward and no one could have carried it through better than you did. You went by the book. That's what an inexperienced demon should do. By the way, we'll assign someone else to his successor." He looked at Devlin kindly. "We'll give you a real challenge next time," he said. "A well-brought-up child with a cookie jar or a self-interested man with a friend. You can try your ingenuity there, if you wish." "But it was a success, sir, wasn't it?" Devlin asked anxiously. "The Prime Minister gave in -- well, he followed the script every time. We'll have his immortal soul, won't we, sir?" Devlin's superior smiled condescendingly. "I'm afraid not, Devlin," he said. "I hope you won't be too disappointed." "But why, sir, why?" a distressed Devlin asked. "You see, Devlin," his mentor told him, "immortal souls are too valuable to chance missing. A demon may botch his first job and we can't afford to lose by that. That's why we've assigned another tyro to the new Prime Minister. Not everyone has an immortal soul. So, we send new demons on a dry run before we let them tackle the real thing."  Jorj X. McKie, Saboteur Extraordinary of the Bureau of Sabotage of the Confederated Sentients, is called to the planet of Cordiality on an urgent mission -- a Caleban Beachball has been sighted on the planet. McKie arrives on Cordiality via a jumpdoor -- an instantaneous space-travel medium controlled by the mysterious Calebans -- and is briefed on the emergency by fellow BuSab agent, Alicheno Furuneo. Calebans, sentient members of the Con-Sentients, have lately been disappearing, with disastrous effects on humans and other sentients around them. It is thought that Mlis Abnethe, an enormously wealthy and beautiful but unscrupulous human woman is somehow involved in the disappearances. No one has ever seen a Caleban and few have successfully communicated with one.  McKie forces an entry into the Beachball stranded on Cordiality and confronts the Caleban domiciled in it. He succeeds in establishing communication with the Caleban, a pure energy sentient, who communicates from mind to mind and tells him that Mlis Abnethe is indeed involved in the inexplicable goings on.' Mlis is a flagellator, who has acquired a contractual right to have the Caleban whipped for her pleasure -- in return she has promised certain educational advantages for Calebans. McKie witnesses and interrupts one of the flagellations, discovers that the Caleban, who has assumed the name Fanny Mae, has fallen in love with him. McKie, a veteran of fifty-four unsuccessful marriages, is unimpressed, but utilizes the fact that the universality of love permits Fanny Mae to violate her contract with Mlis Abnethe and send him on her trail via a jumpdoor. He emerges from the jumpdoor on an unfamiliar planet, talking to an uncommunicative rock. IV arm arrived at the proper BuSab laboratory while it was temporarily unoccupied. The lab chief, Treey Tuluk, a backbowing Wreave, was away at the time, attending the conference McKie's report had precipitated. As with most back-bowers, Tuluk was an odor-id Wreave. He had an outwardly average Wre#ve body, two-and-a-half meters tall, tubular, pedal bifurcation, vertical face slit with manipulative extensors dangling from the lower corner. From long association with humans and humanoids he had developed a brisk, slouching gait, a predilection for clothing with pockets and unWreavish speech mannerisms of a cynical tone. The four eye tubes protruding from the top of his facial slit were green and mild. Returning from the conference, he recognized the objects on his lab floor immediately. They matched Siker's description. Tuluk complained to himself briefly about the careless manner of delivery and soon was lost in the intricacies of examination. He and the assistants he summoned made initial holoscans before separating whip and arm. As they had expected, the Palenki gene structure offered no comparatives. The arm had not come from one of the few Palenkis on record in the ConSentient Regisand message sequence, however. These could be used to identify the arm's original owner if that became necessary. Study of the whip went ahead. The artifact report came out of the computers as "Bullwhip, copy IF of ancient earth type." It was made of steerhide. The fact gave Tuluk and his vegetarian aides a moment of disgust. "A sick archaism," one of Tuluk's Chither assistants called the whip. The others agreed with this judgment, even a Pan Spechi, for whom periodic reversion to carnivorous type in his creche cycle was necessary to survival. A curious alignment in some of the cell molecules next attracted their attention. Study of whip and arm continued at their respective paces. call while standing beside a dirt road about three kilometers from the rock. He had come this far on foot, increasingly annoyed by the strange surroundings. The city, he had soon discovered, was a mirage hanging over a dusty plain of tall grass and scrubby thornbushes. It was almost as hot on the plain as it had been in the Caleban's Beachbalk ' So far the only living things he had seen were some distant tawny animals and countless insects -- leapers, crawlers, fliers, hoppers. The road contained two parallel indentations and was the rusty red color, of abandoned iron. It seemed to originate in a far away line of blue hills and plunge straight across theplain to the heat-muddled horizon. The road contained no occupant except himself. Not even a dust cloud marked some hidden passage. McKie was almost glad to feel the sniggertrance grip him. "This is Tuluk," nis caller said. "I was told to contact you as soon as I had anything to report. Hopefully, I intrude at an opportune moment." McKie, who had a journeyman's respect for Tuluk's. competence, said: "Let's have it." "Not much on the arm," Tuluk said. "Palenki, of course. We can identify the original owner if we ever get him. There has been at least one previous-regrowth of this member. Sword cut on the forearm, by the look of it." "What about the Phylum markings?" "We're still checking that." "The whip?" "That's something else. It's real steerhide." "Real?" "No doubt of it. We could identify the original owner of the skin, although I doubt it's walking around anywhere." "You've a gruesome sense of humor. What else?" "The whip's an archaism, too. Bullwhip, ancient earth style. We got an original ID by computer and brought in a museum expert for confirmation. He thought the construction was a bit on the crude side but close enough to leave little doubt it was a copy of a real original. Fairly recent manufacture, too." "Where could they get an original to copy?" "We're checking that and it may provide a lead. These things aren't too common." "Recent manufacture," McKie said. "Are you sure about that?" "The animal from which that hide was removed has been dead about two standard years. Intracellular structure was still reactive to catalyzing." "Two years. Where would they get a real steer?" "That narrows it down. There are some around for story props in the various entertainment media, that sort of thing. A few of the outback planets where they haven't the technology for pseudoflesh still raise cattle for food." "This thing gets more confusing the deeper we go into it." McKie said. "That's what we think. Oh, by the way, there's chalf dust on the whip." "Chalf! That's where I got the yeast smell!" "Yes, it's still quite strong." "What would they be doing with that much quick-scribe powder?" McKie asked. "There was no sign of a chalf-memory stick -- but that means little, of course." "It's just a suggestion," Tuluk said, "but they could've chalfscribed that design on the Palenki." "Why?" "Give it a false Phylum, maybe?" "Perhaps." "If you smelled chalf after the whip came through, there'd have to be quite a bit of it around. You thought of that?" "The room wasn't all that big and it was hot." "The heat would explain it, all right. Sorry we didn't have more for you." "That's all?" "Well, it might not be of any use -- but the whip has been stored in a hanging position, supported by a thin length of steel." "Steel? Are you positive?" "Positive." "Who still uses steel?" "It's not all that uncommon on some of the newer planets. RR has even turned up places where they build with it." "Wild." "Isn't it, though?" "You know," McKie said, "we're looking for an outback planet and that's where I seem to be." "Where are you?" "I don't know." "You don't know?" McKie explained his predicament. "You field agents take awful chances." "Don't we?" "You wear a monitor. I could ask this Taprisiot to identify your location. Want to invoke the monitor clause?" "You know that's an open payment clause," McKie. said. "I don't think this is as yet a sufficient emergency for me to risk bankrupting us. Let me see if I can identify this place by other means.'.' "What do you want me to do next?" "Call Furuneo. Have him allow me another.six hours, then get the Caleban to pick me up." "Pick you up, right. Siker said you were onto some doorless IF S'eye thine. Can it pick you up anywhere? ,r "I think so." "##I call Furuneo right away." almost two hours before he saw the smoke. Thin spirals of it stood in the air against the backdrop of distant blue hills. It had occurred to McKie during his walk that, he might have been set down in a place where he could die of thirst or starvation before his legs carried him to the safe companionship of his civilized fellows. A self-accusatory moroseness had overtaken him. This was not the first time he had realized that some accident of the machinery he took for granted might prove fatal. But the machinery of his own mind? He cursed himself for using the Caleban's S'eye system this way when he knew the unreliability of communication with the creature. Walking! You never thought ydu might have to walk to safety. McKie 'sensed the eternal flaw in sentient relationship with machinery. Reliance on such forces put your muscles at a disadvantage in a universe where you might liave to rely on them at any time. He seemed to be getting nearer to the smoke, although the hills looked as remote as ever. Walking. Of all the stupid, damned foulups. Why would Abnethe pick a place like this to start her kinky little game? If this were the place it had started. If the Caleban had not made another communication error. If love could find a way. What the devil did love have to do with all this? McKie plodded on, wishing he had brought some water. First the heat of the Beachball, now this. His throat felt as though he had built a fire in it. The dust kicked up by his feet did not help. Every step stirred up a puff of pale red from the narrow track. The dust clogged his throat and nostrils. It had a musty taste. He patted the toolkit in his jacket pocket. The raygen could burn a thin hole in this parched earth, might even strike down to water. But how could he bring the water up to his demanding throat? Plenty of insects around. They buzzed and flew about, crawled at the edge of the track, attempted at times to alight on his exposed flesh. He finally took to carrying his toolkit's stim like a fan, setting it at medium potency. It cleared the air around his face whenever a swarm approached, dropped jittering patches of stunned insects behind him. He grew aware of a noise -- low, indistinct booming. Something being pounded. Something hollow and resonant. It originated out there in the distancewhere the smoke stood on the air. It could be a natural phenomenon, McKie told himself. Could be wild creatures. The smoke might be natural fires. Still, he brought the raygen from his kit, kept it in a sidepocket where he could get at it quickly. The noise became louder in slow stages, as though it were being amplified to mark consecutive positions of his approach. Screens of thornbush and gentle undulations in the plain concealed the source. McKie trudged up a gentle rise, still following the road. Sadness transfixed him. He'd been cast away on some povertystricken backyard world, a place that stiffened the eyes. He had been given a role in a story with a moral, a clipped-wing fairy story. He was a burned-out wanderer, his thirst a burnished yearning. Anguish had lodged in him somewhere. He pursued an estranged, plodding dream which would dissolve in the awakening doom of a single Caleban. The toll that Caleban's death would bring oppressed him. It turned his ego upside down and drained out all the lightness. His own death would be a lost bubble burst in such a conflagration. McKie shook his head to drive away such thoughts. Fear would pluck him of all sensibility. He couldn't afford it. One thing was sure now -- the sun was setting. It had descended at least two widths toward the horizon since he had started this stupid trek. What in thename of the infinite devils was that drumming? It came at him as though riding the heat: monotonous, insistent. He felt his temples throbbing to an irritating counterpoint. stopped. He stood at the brim of a shallow basin which had been cleared of the thornbush. At the basin's center a thorn fence enclosed twenty or so conical huts with grass roofs. They appeared to be made of mud. Smoke spiraled from holes in several of the roofs and from pit fires outside others. Black dots of cattle grazed in the basin, lifting their heads occasionally with stubby whiskers of brown grass protruding from their mouths. Black-skinned youths carrying long poles watched the cattle. More black-skinned men, women and children went about various occupations within the thorn enclosure. McKie, whose ancestry contained blacks from the planet Caoleh, found the scene curiously disturbing. It touched a genetic memory that vibrated to a wrong rhythm. Where in the universe could people be degraded to such primitive living standards? The basin was like a textbook scene from the dark ages of ancient Earth. The children were mostly naked, as were some of the men. The women wore string skirts. Could this be some odd return to nature? The narrow track led down into the basin and through the thorn fence, extending out the other side to disappear over a bordering crest. McKie began the descent. He hoped to find water in this village. The booming noise came from a large hut near the center of the cluster. A two-wheeled cart with IF four great two-horned beasts yoked to it waited beside the hut. McKie studied the cart as he approached. Between its high sidewalls were piled jumbles of strange artifacts -- flat, boardlike things, rolls of garish fabric, long poles with sharp metal tips. The drumming stopped and McKie noted that he had been seen. Children ran screaming among the huts, pointing at him. Adults turned with slow dignity, studied him. Silence settled oyer the scene. McKie entered the village through a break in the thorn fence. Emotionless black faces turned to observe his progress. Scents assaulted McKie's nostrils -- rotting flesh, dung, gave off acrid stenches whose character he didn't care to explore in connection with the smells of woodsmoke and burning meat... Clouds of black insects swarmed about the beasts yoked to the cart beside the central hut. A redbearded white man emerged from the hut as McKie approached. The man wore a flat-brimmed hat, a dusty black jacket and dun pants. He carried a whip of the same pattern the Palenki had used. Seeing the whip, McKie knew he had come to the right place. The man waited in the doorway, a mean-eyed, menacing figure, thin lips visible through the beard. He glanced once at McKie, nodded at several of the black men off to McKie's left, motioned toward the cart, returned his attention to McKie. Two tall blade men moved to stand at the head of the yoked beasts. McKie studied the contents of the cart. The boardlike objects, he saw, had been carved and painted with strange designs. They reminded him of Palenki carapaces. He didn't like the way the two men at the head of the yoked beasts stared at him. Danger lurked here. McKie kept his right hand in his jacket pocket, curled around the raygen tube. He felt and saw the black residents closing in behind him. His back felt exposed and vulnerable. "I am Jorj X. McKie, Saboteur Extraordinary," he said, stopping about ten paces from the bearded white man. "And you?" The man spat in the dust, said something that sounded like: "Getnabent." McKie swallowed. He did not recognize the greeting. Strange, he thought. He had not believed the ConSentiency contained a language completely unfamiliar to him. Perhaps RR had come up with a new planet. "I am on an official mission of the Bureau," McKie said. "Let all 'men know this." That satisfied the legalities. The bearded man glanced in the direction of the voice, back to McKie. McKie shifted his attention to the whip. The man trailed the end of it behind him on the ground. Seeing McKie's attention, he flicked a wrist, caught the flexible end of the whip in two fingers which he lifted from the handle. He continued to stare at McKie. There was a casual proficiency in the way the man handled the whip that sent a shudder through McKie. "Where did you get that whip?" he asked. The man looked at the object in his hand. "Pitsch," he sajd. "Brawzhenbuller." McKie moved closer, held out a hand for the whip. The bearded man shook his head from side to side, scowled. No mistaking that answer. "Maykely," he said. He tapped the butt of the whip handle against the side of the cart, nodded at the piled cargo. Once more McKie studied the contents of the cart. Handmade artifacts -- no doubt of it. There could be a big profit in esoteric and decorative objects, he knew. These could be artifacts that curried to the buyer boredom brought on by the endless, practical, serial duplications from automatic factories. If they were manufactured in this village, though, the whole operation looked to be a slave labor thing. Or serfdom, which was the same thing to all practical purposes. Abnethe's game might have sicker overtones but more understandable motives. "Where's Mliss Abnethe?" he asked. That brought a response. The bearded man jerked up his head, glared at McKie. The surrounding mob emitted unintelligible cry. "Abnethe?" McKie asked. "Seeawss Abnethe," the bearded man said. The crowd around them began chanting: "Epah Abnethe! Epah Abnethe! Epah Abnethe -- " "Rooik!" the bearded man shouted. The chant stopped abruptly. "What is tlje name of this planet?" McKie asked. He glanced around at the staring black faces. "Where is this place?" No one answered. McKie locked eyes with the bearded man. The other returned his stare in a predatory, measuring manner, nodded once, as though he'd come to some conclusion. "Deespawng!" he said. McKie frowned, swore under his breath. This damned case presented communications difficulties at every turn! No matter. He'd seen enough here to demand a fullscale investigation by a police agency. You didn't keep humans in this primitive state. Abnethe must be behind this place. The whip, the reaction to her name. The village smelled of Abnethe sickness. McKie observed some of the people across from him, saw scars on their arms and chests. Whip scars? If they were, Abnethe's money wouldn't save her. Something exploded against the back of McKie's neck, knocking, him forward. The bearded man raised the whip handle and McKie saw the thing rushing toward his head. Jle felt a giant darkness lurch across his mind as the thing crashed against the side of his head. He tried to bring the raygen out of his pocket but muscles disobeyed. He felt his body become a limping, horrified stagger. His IF vision was by then a bloody haze. Again something exploded against his head. McKie sank into nightmare oblivion. As he sank, he thought of the monitor in his skull. If they had killed him, a Taprisiot somewhere would jerk to attention and send in a final report on one Joij X. McKie. A lot ojgood that'll dome... V realized. That glowing thing directly in front of him had to be a moon. The realization told him he had been seeing the moon for some time, puzzling over it without being fully awake. The moon had lifted itself out of blackness above a paralyzed outline of primitive roofs. So he was still in the village. The moon dangled incredibly close. The back and left side of McKie's head began to throb painfully. He explored his bruised senses, realized he had been staked out in the open, flat on his back, wrists and ankles tightly bound, his face pointed at the sky. Perhaps it was another village. He tested the security of his bindings, could not loosen them. His was an undignified position. He was flat on his back, legs spread, arms outstretched. For a time, hewatched the changing guard of strange constellations move across his field of vision. Where was this place? Firelight blazed up somewhere off to his left. It flickered, sank back to orange gloom. McKie tried to turn his head toward it, froze as pain stabbed upward from his neck through his skull. He groaned. In the darkness an animal screamed. The scream was followed by a hoarse, grunting roar. Silence. Then another roar. The sounds creased the night for McKie, bent it into new dimensions. He heard soft footsteps approaching. "I think he groaned," a man said. The man was speaking standard Galach, McKie noted. Two shadows came out of the night and stood over McKie's feet. A female voice masked by a storter asked, "Do you think he's awake?" "He's breathing as though he were awake," the man said. "Who's there?" McKie rasped. His own voice sent agony pinwheeling through his skull. "Good thing your people know how to obey instructions," the man said. "Imagine him running loose around here!" "How did you get here, McKie?" the woman asked. "I walked," McKie growled. "Is that you, Abnethe?"  "He walked;" the man said in angry disbelief. McKie, listening to that male voice, began to wonder about it. Was there a trace of alien sibilance in it? Was it human or humanoid? Among the sentients, only Pan Spechi could look that human -- because they had shaped their flesh to the human pattern. "Unless you release me;" McKie said, "I won't answer for the consequences." "You'll answer for them," the man said. There was laughter in his voice. "We must be sure how he got here," the woman said. "What difference does it make?" "It could make a great deal of difference. What if Fanny Mae is breaking her contract?" "That's impossible." "Nothing's impossible. He couldn't have come here without Caleban help." "Maybe there's another Caleban." "Fanny Mae says not." "I say we do away with this intruder immediately," the man said. "What if he's wearing a monitor?" she asked. "Fanny Mae says no Taprisiot can locate this place." "But McKie is here." "And I've had one long-distance call since I arrived," McKie said. No Taprisiot could locate this 'place? What would prompt that statement? The man said, "I say we do away with him." "You're not very intelligent," McKie said. "Look who's talking about intelligence." tails of faces but they remained blank shadows. What was it about that male voice? The storter disguised the woman's voide -- but why would she bother? "I am fitted with a life monitor," McKie said. "The sooner the better," the man said. "I've stood as much of that talk as I can," the woman said. "Kill me and that monitor starts transmitting," McKie said. "Taprisiots will scan this area and identify everyone around me. Even if they can't locate you, they'll know you." "I shudder at the prospect," the man said. "We must find out how he got here," the woman said. "What difference does it make?" "That's a stupid question." "So the Caleban broke her contract." "Or there's a loophole in it we don't know about." "Well, plug it up." "I don't know if we can. Sometimes I wonder how much we really understand each other. What' re connectives?" "Abnethe, why are you wearing that storterT' McKie asked. "Why do you call me Abnethe?" she asked. "You can disguise your voice but you can't hide your sickness or your style," McKie said. "Did Fanny Mae send you here?" "Didn't somebody say that was impossible?" McKie countered. "He's a brave one," the woman chuckled. "Lot of good it does him." "I don't think the Caleban could break our contract," she said. "You recall the protection clause? It's likely she sent him here to get rid of him." "So let's get rid of him." "That's not what I meant." "You know we have to do it." "You're making him suffer and I won't have it," the woman said. "Then go away and leave it to me, "I can't stand the thought of his suffering. Don't you understand?" "He won't suffer." "You have to be sure." It's Abnethe for certain, McKie thought, recalling her conditioning against witnessing pain. But who's the other one? "My head's hurting," McKie said. "Your men practically beat my brains out." "What brains?" the man asked. "We must get him to a doctor." "Be sensible." "You heard him. His head hurts." "Mliss, Stop it." "You used my name," she said. "What difference does it make? He'd already recognized you." "What if he escapes?" "From here?" "He got here, didn't he?" "For which we can be thankful." "He's suffering," she said. "He's lying." "He's suffering. I can tell." "What if we take him to a doctor, Mliss?" the man asked. "What if we do that and he escapes? BuSab agents are resourceful, you know." Silence. "There's no way out of it," the man said. "Fanny Mae sent him to IF us and now we have to kill him." # You're trying to drive me crazy -- " # He won't suffer." Silence. # I promise," the man said. # For sure?" "Didn't I say it?" # I'm leaving here," she said. # I don't want to know what happens to him. You're never to mention him again, Cheo. Do you hear me?" "Yes, my dear. I hear you." "I'm leaving now," she said. "He's going to cut me into little pieces," McKie said, "and I'll scream with pain the whole time." "Shut him up?" she screeched. "Come away, my dear," the man said. He put an arm around her. "Come along now." Desperately, McKie said, "Abnethe -- he's going to cause me intense.pain. You know that." She began sobbing as the man led her away. "Please -- please -- " she begged. The sound of her crying faded into the night. Furuneo, McKie thought, don't dally. Get that Caleban moving. I want out of here. Now! He strained against his bindings. They stretched just enough to tell him he had reached their limits. He could not feel the stakes move at all. Come on, Caleban! McKie thought. You didn't send me here to die. You said you loved me... tioning, counter questioning, probe, counter probe and bootless answers, Furuneo brought in an enforcer assistant to take over the watch on the Caleban. At Furuneo' s request, Fanny Mae opened a portal and let him out onto the lava ledge for a spell of fresh air. It was cold out on the shelf, especially after the heat in the Beachball. The wind had died down as it did most days here just before night. Surf still pounded the outer rocks and surged against the lava wall beyond the Beachball. But the tide was going out and only a few dollops of spraywet the ledge. Connectives, Furutieo thought bitterly. She says it's not a linkage, so what is it? He couldn't recall ever having felt this frustrated. That which extends from one to eight , the Caleban had said, that is a connective. Correct use of verb to be? . "Huh?" Identity verb , the Caleban said. Strange concept. "No, no! What did you mean there, one to eight?" Unbinding stuff , the Caleban said. # You mean like a solvent?" Before solvent. "What the devil could before have to do with solvents?" Perhaps more internal than solvents , the Caleban said. , "Madness," Furuneo said, shaking his head. Then: "Internal?" Unbounded place of connectives , the Caleban said. "We're right back where we started," Furuneo groaned. # What's a connective?" Uncontained opening between , the Caleban said. "Between what?" Furuneo roared. Between one and eight. "Ohhhh, no!" Also between one and X, the Caleban said. , As McKie had done earlier, Furuneo buried his face in his hands. Presently he said, "What's between one and eight except two, three, four, five, six and seven?" Infinity, the Caleban said. Open ended concept. Nothing contains everything. Everything contains nothing. "You know what I think?" Furuneo asked. I read no thoughts. "I think you're having your little game with us," Furuneo said. "That's what I think." Connectives compel, the Caleban said. Does this expand understanding? "Compels -- a compulsion?" Venture movement, the Caleban said. "Venture what?" That which remains stationary when all else moves, the Caleban said. Thus, connective. Infinity concept empties itself without connective. At this point Furuneo asked to be let outside for a rest. He was no closer to understanding why the Caleban maintained such a high temperature in the Beachball. Consequence of swiftness, the Caleban said, varying this under questioning with: Rapidity convergence. Or, Perhaps concept of generated movement arrives closer. "Some kind of friction?" Furuneo" probed. Uncompensated relationship of dimensions possibly arrives at closest  approximation, the Caleban answered. Now, reviewing these frustrating exchanges, Furuneo blew on his hands to warm them. The sun had set and a chill wind was beginning to move off the bluff toward the water. Either I freeze to death or bake, he thought. Where in the universe is McKie? At this point, Tuluk made longdistance contact through one of the Bureau Taprisiots. Furuneo, who had been seeking a more sheltered position in the lee of the Beachball, felt the pineal ignition. He brought down thefoot he had been lifting in a step, planted the foot firmly into a shallow pool of water and lost all bodily sensation. MinH and call were one. "This is Tuluk at the lab," the caller said. "Apologies for intrusion and all that." "I think you just made me put a foot in cold water," Furuneo said. "Well, here's some more cold water for you. You're to have that friendly Caleban pick up McKie in six hours, time elapse measured from four hours and fifty-one minutes ago. Synchronize." "Standard measure?" "Of course standard." ' "Where is he?" "He doesn't know. Wherever that Caleban sent him. Any idea how it's done?" "It's done with connectives." IF "Is that right? What arc connectives?" "When I find out, you'll be the first to know." "That sounds like a temporal contradiction, Furuneo." "Probably is. All right, let me get my foot out of the water. It's probably frozen solid by now." "You've the synchronized time coordinate for picking up McKie, don't you?" "I got it. And I hope she doesn't send him home." "How's that?" Furuneo explained. "Sounds confusing." , "I'm glad you figured that out. For a moment there, I thought you weren't approaching our problem with sufficient seriousness." Among Wreaves seriousness and sincerity are almost as basic as they are with Taprisiots but Tuluk had worked among humans long enough to recognize the jibe; "Well, every being has its own  insanity," he said. It was a Wreave aphorism but it sounded sufficiently close to something the Caleban might have said for Furuneo to experience a momentary angeret-e nforced rage and sense his ego shimmering away from him. He shuddered his way back to mental solidity. "Did you almost lose yourself?" Tuluk asked. "Will you sign off and let me get my foot out of the water?" "I receive the impression you are fatigued," Tuluk said. "Get some rest." "When I can. I hope I don't fall asleep in that Caleban hot house.  , I'd wake up done just about right for a cannibal dinner." "Sometimes you humans express yourselves in a disgusting fashion," the Wreave said. "But you'd better remain alert for a while. McKie may require punctuality." VI I t was dark but Abnethe needed no light for black thoughts. Damn Cheo for a sadistic fool! It had been a mistake to finance the surgery that'd transformed the Pan Spechi into an ego-frozen freak. Why couldn't he have stayed as he had been when she had first met him? So exotic -- so -- exciting. He was still useful, though. And there was no doubt he had been the first to see the magnificent possibilities in their discovery. That, at least remained exciting. She reclined on a softly furred chairdog, one of the rare feline adaptives which had been taught to lull their masters by purring. The soothing vibrations moved through her flesh as though seeking out irritations to subdue. So relaxing. She sighed. Her apartment occupied the top ring of the tower they had built on this world, safe in the knowledge that their hiding place lay beyonjl the reach of any law or any communication except that granted through a single Caleban -- who had bbt a short time to live. But how had McKie come here? And what had McKie meant, saying he had had a call through a Taprisiot? The chairdog, sensitive to her mood, Stopped purring as Abnethe sat up. Had Fanny Mae lied? Did another Caleban remain who could find this place? Granted that the Caleban's words were difficult to understand -- granted this, yes, there was yet no mistaking the essentials. This world was a place whose key lay in only one mind, that of Madame Mliss Abnethe. She sat straight on the chairdog. And there would be death without suffering' to make this place forever safe -- a giant orgasm of death. Only one door -- and death would close it. The survivors, all chosen by herself, would live on in happiness here beyond all -- connectives. Whatever those were. She stood up, began pacing back and forth in the darkness. The rug, a creature adapted like the chairdog, squirmed its furry surface at the caress of her feet. An amused smile came over her face. Despite the complications and the strange timing required, she would have to increase the tempo of the floggings. Fanny Mae must be forced to discontinue as soon as possible. To kill without suffering ahiong the victims, this was a prospect she found she still could contemplate. But there was need for hurry. ing, against a wall within the Beachball. Sleepily he cursed the. heat. His mindclock said he had slightly less than an hour before picking up McKie. Furuneo had tried to explain the time schedule to the Caleban but she persisted in misunderstanding. Lengths extend and distend, she had said. They warp and shift with vague movements between one and another. Thus time remains inconstant. Inconstant? The vortal tube of a S'eye jumpdoor snapped open just beyond the Caleban's giant spoon. The face and bare shoulders of Abnethe appeared in the opening. Furuneo pushed himself away from the wall, shook his head to restore alertness. Damnation, it. was hot in here. "You are Alicheno Furuneo," Abnethe said. "Do you know me?" "I know you." "I recognized you at once," she said. "I know most of your stupid Bureau's planetary agents by sight. I've found it profitable." "Are you here to flog this poor Caleban?" Furuneo asked. He felt for the holoscan in his pocket, moved into a position for a rush toward the jumpdoor as McKie had ordered. "Don't make me close this door before we've had a little discussion," she said. Furuneo hesitated. He was no Saboteur Extraordinary, but you didn't get to be a planetary agent without recognizing when to disobey a senior agent's orders. "What's to discuss?" he asked. "Your future," she said. Furuneo stared up into her eyes. IF The emptiness of them appalled him. This woman was ridden by a compulsion. "My future?" he asked. "Whether you're to have any future" she said. "Don't threaten me," he said. "Cheo tells me," she said, "that you're a possibility for our project." For no reason he could explain, Furuneo knew this to be a lie. Odd how she gave herself away. Her lips trembled when she said that name -- Cheo. "Who's Cheo?" he asked. "That's unimportant at the moment." "What's your project) then?" "Survival." "That's nice," he said. "What else is new?" He wondered what she would do if he brought out the holoscan and started recording. "Did Fanny Mae send McKie hunting for me?" she asked. That question was important to her, Furuneo saw. McKie must have stirred up merry hob. "You've seen McKie?" he asked, "I refuse to discuss McKie," she said. The response was insane, Furuneo thought. She had been the one to bring McKie into the conversation. Abnethe pursed her lips, studied him. "Are you married, Alicheno Furuneo?" she asked. He frowned. Her lips had trembled again. Surely she knew his marital status since she had taken trouble to learn who he was. What was her game? "My wife is dead," he said. "How sad," She murmured. "I get along," he said, angry. "One can't live in the past." "Ah, that is where you may be wrong," she said, "What are you driving at?" "Let's see," she said, "your age -- sixty-seven standard, if I recall correctly." "You recall correctly, as you damn' well know." "You're young," she said. "You look even younger. I'd guess you're a vital person who enjoys life." "Aren't we all?" he asked. It was going to be a bribe offer, then, he thought. "We enjoy life when we have the proper ingredients," she said. "How odd it is to find a person such as yourself in that stupid Bureau." This was close enough to a thought Furuneo himself had occasionally nurtured for him to begin wondering about this Cheo and the mysterious project with its 'possibilities. What were they offering? ' Would she offer herself? She was an attractive female -- he saw a generous mouth, large green eyes, a pleasant oval face. He had seen the holoscans of her figure -- the Beauty barbers had done well by her. She had maintained herself with all the expensive care her money could buy. But would she offer herself to him? He found this difficult to contemplate. Motives and stakes didn't fit. "What arc you afraid of?" he asked. She answered him with a peculiar note of sincerity, "Suffering." He had not been celibate since Mada's death -- nevertheless, his had been a special kind of marriage. It had gone beyond words and bodies. If anything remained solid and basic -- connective -- in the universe, their kind of love did. He had but to close his eyes to feel the memory-presence of her. Nothing could replace that and Abnethe must know it. She could not offer him anything unobtainable elsewhere. Or could she? "Fanny Mae," Abnethe said, "are you prepared to honor the request I made?" Connectives appropriate, the Caleban said. "Connectives -- " Furuneo exploded. "What are connectives?" "I don't really know," Abnethe said, "but apparently I can exploit them without knowing." "What are you cooking up?" Furuneo demanded. He wondered why his skin felt suddenly chilled in spite of the heat. "Fanny Mae, show him," Abnethe said. ' The jumpdoor's vortal tube flickered Open, closed, danced and shimmered. Abruptly, Abnethe no longer was visible in it. The door stood open once more, looking now down onto a sunny jungle shore, a softly heaving ocean surface, an oval stabo-yacht hanging in stasis above a clearing and a sandy beach. The yacht's afterdeck shields lay open to the sun, exposing almost in the center of the deck a young woman stretched out in repose, face down on a floater hammock. Her body was drinking the rays of a tuned sunfilter. Furuneo stared, unable to move. The young woman lifted her head, stared out to sea, lay back. Abnethe's voice came from directly over his head, from another jumpdoor obviously, but he could not take his gaze from that well-remembered scene. "You recognize this?" she asked. "It's Mada," he whispered. "Precisely." "Oh, my god," he whispered. "When did you scan that?" "It is your beloved, you're sure?" Abnethe asked. "It's -- it's our honeymoon," he whispered. "I even know the day. Friends took me to visit the seadome. She didn't enjoy swimming and stayed behind." "How do you know the actual day?" "The flambok tree at "the edge of the clearing -- it bloomed that day and I missed itr See the umbrella flower?" "Oh, yes. Then you've no doubt about the authenticity of this scene?" "So you had your snoopers staring at us even then?" he rasped. "Not snoopers. We are the snoopers. This is now." "It can't be! That was almost forty years ago!" "Keep your voice down." IF "How can she hear me? She's been dead for -- " "This is now, I tell you! Fanny Mae?" In person of Furuneo, concept oj now contains relative connectives, the Caleban said. Nowness oj scene true. membering other times. "We can pluck her from that yacht and take both of you to a place the Bureau will never find," Abnethe said. "What do you think of that, Furuneo?" Furuneo wiped tears from his cheeks. He was aware of the sea's ozone smell, the pungency of the flambok blossom. The scene had to be a recording, though. "If it's now -- why hasn't she seen us?" he asked. "At my direction, Fanny Mae masks us from her sight. Sound, however, will carry. Keep your voice down." "You're lying," he hissed. As though at a signal, the young woman rolled over, stood up and admired the flambok. She began to hum a song familiar to Furuneo.  "I think you know I'm not lying," Abnethe said. "This is our secret, Furuneo. This is our discovery about the Calebans." "But -- how can -- " "Given the proper connectives, whatever they are, even the past is open to us. Only Fanny Mae Of all the Calebans remains to link us with this past. No Taprisiot, no Bureau, nothing can reach us there. We can go there and free ourselves forever?" "This is a trick," he said.  "You can see it isn't. Smell that flower, the sea." "But why -- what do you want?" "Your assistance in a small matter, Furuneo." "How?" "We fear someone will stumble on our secret before we're ready. If, however, someone the Bureau trusts is here to watch and report-giving a false report -- " "What false report?" ."That there've been no more floggings, that Fanny Mae is happy, that -- " "Why those particular lies?" "When Fanny Mae reaches her -- ultimate discontinuity -- we can be far away and safe -- you with your beloved. Correct, Fanny Mae?" Truthful essence in statement, the Caleban said. jumpdoor. Mada. She was rjght there. She had stopped humming and was coating her body with a skin-protective. If the Caleban moved the door a little closer, he knew he would be able to reach out and touch his beloved. Pain in Furuneo's chest made him aware of a constriction there. "Am -- I down there somewhere?" he asked. "Yes," Abnethe said. "And I'll come back to the yacht?" "If that's what you did originally. "What would I find, though?" "Your bride gone, disappeared." "But -- " Would she really? Perhaps -- yes. Yes, she would know him. She might even come to understand the need behind such a decision. But he saw quite clearly that she would never forgive him. Not Mada. "With proper care she might not have to die in thirty-one years," Abnethe said. Furuneo nodded but the gesture was only for himself. She would not forgive him any "It'd be thought that some creature of the sea or the jungle killed her. Perhaps she went swimming and -- " "She lived thirty-one years after that," he whispered. "And you can have those thirtyone years all over again," Abnethe said. "I -- I wouldn't be the same. She'd -- " "She'd know you." more than the young man returning to an empty yacht could forgive him. And that young man had not died.  couldn't forgive myself. The young man  was would never forgive me all those lovely lost years. "If you're worried," Abnethe said, "about changing the universe or the course of history or any such nonsense, forget it. That's not how it works, Fanny Mae tells me. You change a single, isolated situation, no more. The new situation goes off about its business and everything else remains pretty much the same." "I see." "Do you agree to our bargain?" Abnethe asked. "What?" "Shall I have Fanny Mae pick her up for you?" "Why bother?" he asked. "I can't agree at all to such a thing." "You'rejoking." He turned, stared up, saw that she had a small jumpdoor open almost directly over his head. Only her eyes, nose and mouth could be seen through the opening.  "I am not joking." Part of her hand became visible as she lifted it, pointed toward the other door. "Look down there at what you're rejecting. Look, I say. Can you honestly tell me you don't want that back?" He turned. Mada had gone back to the hammock, snuggled head down against a pillow. Furuneo recalled that he had found her so when he had returned from the seadome. "You're not offering me anything," he said. "But I am. Everything I'ye told you is true!" "You're a fool," he said, "if you .can't see the difference between what Mada and I had and what you offer. I pity -- " Something fiercely compressive gripped his throat, choked off his words. Furuneo's hands groped in empty air as he was lifted. He felt his head go through jumpdoor resistance. His neck was precisely within the boundary juncture when the door was closed. His body fell back into the Beachball. Y OU fool, Mliss!" Cheo raged. "Ybu utter, complete, senseless fool. If I hadn't come back when I -- " "You killed him." she rasped, backing away from the bloody head on the floor of her sitting room. "You -- you killed him. And just when I'd almost -- " "When you'd almost ruined everything, "Cheo snarled, thrusting his scarred face close to her. "What do you humans use for brains?" "But he'd -- " "He was ready to call his helpers and tell them everything you'd blurted to him." "I won't have you talking to me . this way." "When it's my neck you're putting on the block I'll talk to you any way I want." "You made him suffer -- " "He didn't feel a thing from what I did. You're the one who made him suffer." "How can you say that?" She backed away from the Pan Spechi face with its frighteningly oversized humanoid features. "You bleat about being unable to stand suffering," he growled, "but you love it. You cause it all around you. You knew Furuneo wouldn't accept your stupid offer but you taunted him with it, with what he'd lost. You don't call that suffering?" "See here, Cheo, if you -- " "He suffered right up to the instant I put a stop to it," the Pan Spechi said. "And you know it." "Stop it!" she screamed. "I didn't! He wasn't!" "He was and you knew it -- every instant you knew it." She rushed at him, beat her fists against his chest. "You're lying! You're lying! You're lying!" He grabbed her wrists, forced IF her to her knees. She lowered her head. Tears ran down her cheeks. "Lies, lies, lies," she muttered. In a softer, more reasonable tone he said: "Mliss, hear me. We've no way of knowing how much longer the Caleban can last. Be sensible. We've a limited number of fixed periods when we can use the S'eye and we have to make the most of them. You've wasted one of those periods. We can't afford such blunders, Mliss." She kept her gaze down, refused to look at him. "You know I don't like to be severe with you, Mliss," he said, "but my way is best -- as you've said yourself many times.We've our own ego-integrity to preserve." She nodded without looking up. "Let's join the others now," he said. "Plouty has devised an amusing new game." "One thing," she said. "Yes?" "Let's save McKie. He'd be an interesting addition to -- "  "No." "What harm could it do? He might even be useful. It isn't as though he'd have his precious Bureau or anything to enforce his -- " "No. Besides, it's probably too late. I've already sent the Palenki with -- well, you understand." He released her wrists. Abenthe got to her feet, nostrils flaring. She looked up at him then, eyes peering through her lashes, her head tilted forward. Suddenly, her right foot lashed out, caught Cheo with a hard heel in the left shin... He danced back, nursed the bruise with one hand. Despite the pain, he was amused. "You see?" he said. "You do like to inflict suffering." She was all over him then, kissing him, apologizing. They never did get down to Plouty's new game. ous badges on his back. This was the' commander of the Dravian ship. Between the Dravian captain and Brand stood a low table. On the table was a pile of silvery Kendallian exchange disks, money of value on any civilized planet in the known galaxy. "You are the only survivor," the Dravian said. "The full payment is yours." (Continued from page #) "There are two other survivors down there," Brand said. "You could still pick them up." "No," the captain said, wrigglinghis body hair in a manner that seemed unusual. "As you humans say, 'It is out of my hands.' We are late and even now we will have difficulty rendezvousing with our fleet as scheduled." In all honesty. Brand told himself, he was not greatly grieved over the loss of Davidson and Wisse. He had never particularly liked either of them. "Okay," he said after a few moments, "if that's the way it is." "Good," the Dravian captain said. "The exhange disks are yours." He paused before speaking again. "You and your companions were promised transportation to Breman's Planet upon the completion of your work." "That's right," Brand replied, beginning to feel again that there was a lot going on that he did not understand. "Would you care to take out another contract?" "Now?" "Yes, immediately," the captain replied. "The Dravian peoples find themselves at war with -- another race. I will not go into details, except to say that this other race feels that we had infringed too frequently into a territory they consider, to be theirs." The captain removed a sheet of permapape from a pouch under his body. "This contract is for the duration of the war -- at three' times your previous rate of pay." Brand looked at the pile of disks on the table and things began to make sense -- like why there were marines on New Iowa and why the corvette was late and why there was a fleet of Fuzzy ships and where they were going. He-understood. The whole business on New Iowa was probably just one small part of a whole series of provocations. He decided not to think beyond this. His mind went back to the pile of exchange disks. He already had a small fortune, enough to lose himself in the ecstasy of Breman's Planet for months, maybe years. v "The war will be short," the captain was saying. "We have been preparing for it for a long time. Our enemies have not. Already our fleets are massed. Your job will consist of no more than mopping up the planet after we have destroyed its defenses. The conditions of the planet are ideal for your lifeform, by the way." A brief pause. "I guarantee you no more than six standard months and a bonus at least equal to this when we have finished." Brand looked at the pile of disks again, visualizing it doubled. What did he owe anybody? "Okay," he said. "Six monthsand then Breman's Planet." "This is guaranteed," the Dravian said but there was something in that alien voice that Brand wondered about, some strange intonation that seemed to carry -- was it disgust? Brand took the offered contract, signed it and thumbed it without reading it and handed it back. Brand lay in the luxury of Breman's Planet, surrounded by all the sensual delights men had IF ever managed to devise. A girl's hand slipped a euphoric into his mouth, then roved across his body. He sighed. With the bundle he had he could live like this for the rest of his life -- if only he could stop remembering, stop thinking. But he couldn't. The once-beautiful planet had been a shambles. Its proud people were little more than slaves to the victorious Dravians. Its economic and political and moral power was finally and forever broken. For all practical purposes it was a planet as dead as its huge moon. Brand had walked among its de"How?" asked Tokay. Garm shrugged and Serteze answered, "He got drunk out of his mind and missed the flight." The embarrassed Searcher reached for the guitar and handed the instrument to Tokay. 'Come on. Let's get out of here." years would return again and again to this point in the most disconcerting case to remain unmanaged to turn complete victory into complete defeat in a few hours remained fertile ground for the wildest speculations. The only possible trace of the culture once known as The Entertainers turned up years later in a rather ambigufeated people, a conqueror, and they, the beaten ones, had called him Judas, though he wasn't sure what that meant. Nor did he want to know. He knew too much as it was. He shuddered inside himself and hated the Dravians -- and wondered which planet was next 'on their list: Breakdown Heights, Cordoba, New California, Breman's Planet, which human world? But he knew what he hated even more than the Dravians. And he would have to live with that -- if he didn't pick up the pistol that lay a few centimeters from his hand and burn away his skull.  ( Continued from page #) ous lawsuit over the ownership of a starship's hull being used as an aging tank on Butus #. The identity of the hull could not be estab-. lished and possession was ruled as indicating ownership. When the had become one of the cheapest items in the Federation. The three . Entertainers crossed the ramp in silence until Tokay realized that their destination was "Wow!" "We can only die once and it's the fastest ship in this part of the Federation," said Serteze. As they approached the landing fins of the spacecraft Tokay sensed something familiar about Then he recognized Paddy and The Gladiator. Garm answered his thoughts. "They came in on a passenger liner while you were out planting. Almost everyone is on board. We were waiting for you." The ship was sealed as the last Entertainer boarded. The Searcher took over the controls and proudly displayed his newly gleaned knowledge. As the last man reported and was strapped in, Serteze released the clamps jind the Spaceport alarms broke loose. The emergency communications band flashed on, asking for identification. Garm answered, "Entertainers, here. Request permission to take off -- " and then, as Serteze lifted the ship starward -- "we are taking off anyway." ship on Phobus and wgs in warp before any attempt at pursuit had cleared the Port. Paddy came up from the lower deck and asked, "Where are we going?" "How about Butus #," said Garm. "They won't look for us there." Paddy raised an eyebrow. "You mean that after allof this, we'll still have to buy imported wine?" "Looks like," said Serteze. Tokay smiled at the irony of it. His fingers scrummed the guitar as he said, "What were those lyrics... oh yeh... I remember..." T HE police cruiser sat angletT into the curb, the sidewaik door ajar. Dawn was barely showing and few people were up to see the flashing red light blink its fearful message. Sister Marion had found the body and stood transfixed, tapping a dirge on a tambourine while policemen examined the corpse. The sergeant kicked the body. "Yep. Charlie Three is no longer with us." The younger patrolman who was bending over the corpse reached behind his back and touched the sergeant's leg. "Don't do that. He was a man." "Oh, sorry. Didn't know you were that touchy, kid. I'll call for the white wagon." The patrolman eased the tom and tattered suit aside and pulled away the ruffled newspapers until he found a battered piece of leather that had once been a billfold. "This is unit eleven-o-nine at the corner of Howell and Anderson Streets. We have an unknown microphone. "Not unknown," called the patrolman. "He has a name." The patrolman turned the Musician's Union Card a little more toward the light to make out the almost time-erased name. "It's Tokay Wilson." IF "A what?" loudly asked the sergeant. "T-O-K-A-Y. It's the name of a grape," answered the patrolman. He covered the timeless remains of the little figure and tried not to think about it. The heare arrived and the attendants rolled the big-wheeled cart alongside of. ( Continued from page # ) power to return in new bodies century after century and has largely been responsible for the destruction of most of man's dreams of progress. And in the background are the Patricks who seem to regard themselves as guardians against evil, though their legends indicate God had long-ago rejected them and made them exterior to the universe of reality. All this takes place in a world in the near future, one where men have supposedly reached a high point of progress. The population explosion has been checked, the arts have hit a new high and everyone seems to have been freed from misery and poverty. Unfortunately this is told to us but never shown. We get mention of places and events, but the whole world is at best a shallow stage for the story, lacking any discernible reason for us to care about it. The only two examples of what might be normal men who play any part in the story are empty pseudo-intellectuals who seem intent only on justifyCharlie Three. In flashing flurry the vehicles were gone. Sister Marion walked away, her head bowed, still pounding the empty cadence. Charlie Three was gone. His body was dead. His pain had been' set free and in freedom his essence was to be elsewhere.  ing their failure to be more, though Michael Fountain is described to us as having extraordinary capabilities. This tendency to tell us about things and then show nothing that merits what we are told is characteristic of the entire story. The menacing figures are described in copious words and symbols. The seven weavers are supposed to be figures of passion and supreme ambition. But in their conversation and their actions, they come across as comic-opera villains at best. They cause enough trouble but they manage to achieve nothing that is of any real importance to the story. Oh, they think they're doing great things, particularly to themselves. But the most they do (aside from a little wanton and good) is to communicate the power to read minds to those they are trying to control -- hardly a trick they could want. The returnees, the ones who can pass from body to body, should be solidly menacing. With the ability to take over anyone they choose and with centuries of planning, they should represent about the ultimate of power. We're told at various times that they do represent such power. But when we finally meet their chief example, he is little more than a loud-mouthed fool with certain peculiar habits, such as breathing water. He spills whatever information is wanted to the protagonist and makes threats that are even less convincing than what has been threatened before. The patricks are a bit more fancifully interesting. One keeps a kind of ape-dog ghost (who has no importance in the story). Another seems to guard a fountain that chains evil in a sort of never-world not quite identical with the real earth. Both run on at the mouth about their importance and neither seems to have any real sense of power. The second one comes on stage again briefly to cry that the evil has escaped from his fountain -- and then runs off, sniveling a bit but totally helpless. Our protagonist is Freddy Foley, described as a man with good eyes and simple brain. This works out as the literal truth. Foley -- we are told -- matures during the story and everyone comments on this -- if so, there is no evidence in his actions. Partly as a result of being touched by the brain-weaving, he gets a hunch at the very beginning of the book that Carmody is a man who has lived before. He is also not only aware of the brain-weavers but has one of them as his girl friend. This should be quite a background for a reporter -- but he fiddles gropingly with his' worries through more than half of the book. Then he finally asks for and gets an appointment with Carmody, where the returnee spills as much of the big hush-hush secret as we ever get. When Foley is locked up in an insane asylum, it seems logical enough; only a crazy fool would have put himself so easily into such a trap. The eventual struggle is singularly unconvincing. After pleading for help to escape, Foley and a few others decide to jump the fence. With no further details on how they plan this, they do so. And now, because of a note from a man whose motives Foley cannot understand, he and his band go about all-powerful returnees has enough sense to shoot him and his band during the riots that occur at this time is a matter left uncovered.) But none of it matters. Our prohis girl friend for more talk at a cafe' ending this episode. But it's all right. The brain-weavers decide to achieve their power by destroying themselves, while the returnIF ees apparently give up for some other reason. And in the end, each of the three groups somehow decides Foley is such a magnificent champion of man that they make him their leader. Of course, material such as this has a built-in-cop-out. It's labeled as humor or satire -- or both. I'm afraid I can't find that it qualifies on either ground. There aren't enough human characters here for any handling of human foibles and the conditions are generally too remote from reality to give us much chance for telling satjre. In addition, everything is cluttered up. Repeated symbols, allegory, legend, fantasy and assorted other things intrude to the point where there is no consistent tone or attack. Anyhow, it's pretty darned hard to satirize something as weak as the story of Foley and hismenaces. A bad story makes for bad humor and bad satire, as Wodehouse and Swift knew long ago. There are some lovely inconsistencies within the basic postulates. The weavers, for instance, can seize a passing girl and turn her -- both physically and mentally -- into one of their own group who has died, but their two major attempts to control minds fail when the men who are to be controlled slip out of their clutches without their knowing it. And there are added details, such as a real demon anc constant hints that man must have originated on a world with a longer day-night cycle. But, like the revolutionist who appears often in the story, all this comes to exactly nothing in the end. This simply isn't my" dish of tea. I've never found that weak catnip tea improved from an infusion of musk and cinnamon. I'd. much rather read about The Great Menace over a cup of tea with the incredible Dr. Fu Manchu. O NE of the most popular forms of fiction in our field has always been the novella -- or long novelette, as it used to be called. There are a lot of story ideas that require more space . than a short for full development, but which simply don't shape up into full novels without so much padding that the result is an unhappy one. Suclr a length, of course, is excellent for the magazines. But in the book field it presents a problem. If such a story is included in the usual anthology, it will take up so much space that there isn't room left for the number of shorter works most readers expect. And while a few novellas have been published as books, few readers will pay enough for such small books to justify the "expense of printing and distributing them. The obvious answer has occured to several publishers: Do a book of about three such novellas by different writers on a single theme. If the theme seems interesting and the writers' names are good ones. it seems certain to attract readers. Such was the idea behind the old Twayne Triplets. In at least one case, the result was outstanding. Witches Three was a huge 'book and a superb one... It had an entire original novel of witchcraft by Fletcher Pratt which may have been the finest thing he ever wrote. And the other two stories (by Fritz Leiber and James Blish) were already classics when they were included. But later works were not so successful. Most of them involved having someone construct an imaginary world and then letting three Writers do what they could with it. Sometimes one story might justify the book -- but the results, at best, were spotty. It's just not possible to hand someone else's idea to three writers and expect them to turn out their top performance on order. The latest example of this concept is Three for Tomorrow, by Robert Silverberg, Roger Zelazny and James Blish (Meredith Press, #). It also contains a foreword by Arthur C. Clarke, setting up the . basic idea around which the three stories center. On the whole it's a fairly good example of what I have come to feel is a rather poor structure for a book. The basic idea here (from Clarke) is that any highly technical society must offer not only possibilities for great progress but also for unforeseen disasters. (Our own polluted air and streams indicate this, not to mention what is happening to our cities.) This is a less limiting concept than most, fortunately, and the results from three fine writers are at least always .interesting. Silverberg takes what may be the most obvious danger from our future, though he has limited it to an area that can be handled, rather than trying to make it world-wide -- an excellent choice for his proposition. He asks what might happen if a chemical producing amnesia were to get into the water supply of San Francisco. The idea of drugs in the water supply isn't exactly new, but it has usually been brutally mishandled as a horror story without relieving highlights. By using amnesia rather than total madness or a horrible plague, Silverberg manages to let us follow the characters in a far better story situation. Nor does he wipe out all memories, which would be just as much a fictional disaster as any other doom. By using only an unpredictable but selective loss of memory, his characters are faced with divergent problems in coping with the aspects of the world that are wiped from their minds. As a story device, this is neatly done. However, the stories within the story are necessarily spotty, ancf the way they are woven together seems a bit hurried. A relation is indicated between the various problems and it adds to the coIF herence of the novella. But in fallowing bits and pieces, it's hard to work up any great interest in any one character. The best bit, in fact, remains that of a man who is a fanatic about bottled water and is not affected by the trouble -- a somewhat pathetic and yet rather stalwart old reactionary who must put duty above Duty. Zelazny tells a more personal story, and one with some of his feeling for characters who are somehow outside normal society and larger for the distance. In this case, the menace is the regimentation of all the population under the computers that can handle the data for every citizen from birth to death. The hero is a man who worked in setting up the program and who found a way to wipe out his record, while still having access to the computer to insert any false information about an identity for himself that he might choose. He's put into a situation where he has to serve the very Security that he has turned from, in an experiment that may either be a blessing or a curse. And the conflict between his idealism and his individual freedom takes over. Blish digs most deeply into the basic situation suggested by Clarke. As might be expected from his other stories, he brings a rich supply of ideas to indicate what kind of doom mankind can make for himself. He takes the simple facts that any organism must be choked off in its own wa;te products and the actual development of uch waste is going on now and lays outa grim and rather logical background. Many of the results are less than obvious, yet they are all tied iii neatly throughout. Paddling a canoe from Chelsea to Times Square in Manhattan is completely logical in his world, even though there has been no disaster that has made the island sink. The human figures in the story are either a bit more stock or less interesting than those in the other two novellas, but the background detail is such that there is no loss from this. All three stories show ingenuity and exhibit a good deal of the skill of the writers. Any one of the three would almost certainly be an acceptable lead novelette for an issue of a magazine. And yet none of them represents the very best work of the writers. This is probably inevitable. The best stories of any author are not easily produced on order, but are combinations of mood, luck, ideas and a host of other intangibles. But in this case the defects of the three all seem to share a somewhat common element. The stories are well thought out against the suggestion put forward by Clarke. But none is as completely developed from the angle of pure story as it should be. All seem to slough off the ending a bit more casually than it should be treated. And all really seem to lack the fullest use of character and mood. Blish's story suffers most in this respect. After preparing us for idoom in ten years, he puts us down doom. And then he compresses hrs ending into a few hours. Technologically, this is justified; artistically -- in its human elements -- it goes completely agley. This has been a story of approaching doom and the reactions to it; suddenly, the hammer of Thor hits -- and the doom, as always, precedes the rumble of its thunder. I suspect that what we have here are three stories that would have grown into three novels of far more importance if the writers had been able to afford the time andthought -- as well as space -- to function: Rau Lou had rigged the manual override for conventional drive but she couldn't manage warp drive without an intact ship intelligence. And that seemed to ' be gone -- starship cerebral death. Spider tried energizing the circuits again. He shrugged. "Nothing but primordial reflexes. Personality has died." Olga jolted the tractor beam emotionally and set .up such a keening that the 'ponies plants folded their leaves. Spider and Rau Lou steadied themselves until #make the most of them. Certainly Blish needs a decade coverage of the League of Last Days, and Zelazny has only brought his hero to the beginning of his conflict. At softcover prices, this would still be a good book; but # would probably buy far more enjoyment from the same writers if invested in their other works. After looking at a score or so of such books based upon a single theme, I can only conclude that it works much better for short stories and for reprints than for original novellas. Perhaps the idea of such a book is Workable. But if so. I'd strongly recommend to the publishers that they give the writers a much longer period to work on their stories, or relax all . limitalet the stories be self-determined.  ( Continued from page #) ga settled down. Spider had never seen such a cybernetic outburst over the death of a machine. "Rau Lou, what kind of a ship was it?" he asked as he patted the now inert brain case. "Seventy-sixth generation of the Komputerized Aerospace Resaid. "I guess I was pretty fond of him, too." Then a lot of things began to make sense to Spider. It had been the ships that had fallen at Grus -- not the humans.  IF Readers write -- and wrong! was just that in the turmoil of the great changeover I asked a good friend and colleague to handle Hue and Cry and now I seem to have some great people propping me up and others beating me about the head and shoulders -- and still others painstakingly explaining -- about the Great Debate. I want to say now -- and quickly -- that I have never debated the merits of the New Wave vs. the Old Wave, that I am normally excited by good new writing, regardless of school of origin. best stories available -- hell, I already have the best readers. So take over. Dear Editor: Congratulations .  had my doubts about the maintenance of quality in your magazines ( I tend to think oj same general magazine) when the editorship changed , but so far there have been no indications of deterioration. are the most consistent on the market In terms of quality; seldom is there a bad story , and never a bad issue in the past five years or so. This is perhaps the mainstay of your popularity; there are other magazines that will in a given month have an absolutely phenomenal issue , much better than yours , but the next month that same magazine might be a complete miss. Also , congratulations on the new printer. If the October IF is a good indication, the appearance and readabilstantially upgraded. And now a criticism or two. One of the major faults of your publications under the old management was the handling of subscriptions and mailings. Addresses were never changed when requested; if they were, it was only after repeated letters. I hope that this aspect of your operations will # improve soon. What ever happened to Philip Jose # Farmer's Riverworld series (Day of the Aug . '#)? For all its faults , I thought that this was one of the most inventive series going . It was suspenseful, exciting, unusual, "mind-expanding" and showed a deep concern for some rather pressing problems of human nature. But the story of the Riverworld was definitely not finished; as it stood approximately # pages written) Farmer looked like he could go on for another several episodes before he resolved the conflict. Can we expect any more on this theme from him, and if so, when? abandoned its policy of publishing and identifying) a new author a month. This I feel was a mistake. Proof? Look at the October Hue and Cry. Larry Niven and Perry Chapdelaine both were published under this policy. In addition, several other authors named ( McAllister , Margroff, Filer); even if they never become great names, they are good authors who contribute fine stories to the field. Sure, you say, we still publish new authors when good ones turn up. Of course you do -- any sub-classification of literature , especially a specialty like science fiction, must continually turn up new talent to survive. But it is a great encouragement to new authors to know that there is an advertised steady market for their writings. And as a result many of them will guide their stones into your hands -- give you first crack at them, so to speak. Everybody benefits thereby: you, the new writer and especially the reader. -- let's have no more general discussions over the general merits of the "New Wave" in either editorials or letter columns. If a person wants to derogate or defend a specific author on a specific story, that's fine, but letters of the type of Mr. Cover's in the October IF are a waste of time. Face it, both sides have become extremely polarized and nobody wants to listen to anyone of a different view any more. The "New Wave" has its good points -- the literary quality of the field has been upgraded, for instance -- and its bad ones -- as an example, too many "New Wave" stories are literary exercises totally devoid of real content. But these constant harangues pro and con convince no one; all they do is clutter up magazines with repetitions of opinions that everybody has been overexposed to during the last three years or so. All in all, I am impressed with the change in editorship; I expected the Galaxy magazines to somehow decrease in quality and to my surprise they did not. But there is still much room for improvement, as there was under Mr. Pohl's guidance. Very truly yours, Larry ( Lawrence W. Propp) Philip Farmer is completing a booklength new episode of his Riverworld series -- whether or not it will complete IF the series I don't think Phil himself knows. It's a long river but we'll all camp on it soon. IF Firsts are very much on the agenda. More on this at a later date. Dear Mr. Jakobs son. First of all I would like to compliment you on the way you have imbeing printed. It was nice to get my magazines with the date on the cover the correct month. But for the last week now I have seen the next issue on the newsstands and I still haven t received my copy in the mail. All the other sf magazines that I subscribe to get my copy to me a day before they go on #ale to the newsstands. This saves me a lot of worrying as to whether or not I am going to get it or miss the next installment of the current serial. I think I just finished reading the October issue of IF and it was great ! My favorite was None But I. It was the best novelette that I have read this year in your magazines . I also especially liked Survival, The. Mind Bomb and Down on the Farm. Van Vogt's story in the September I would like to know when out. After seeing the advertisements in my magazines I have been looking for it and I still haven't seen it. Where is it? Sincerely , Bill A nd resen Malibu , Cal. Why did you not complete the Riverworld series as you promised? M.W.G. Madison , NJ. been held up by printing problems, now nicely on the way to solutions. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I just finished reading your interesting editorial in October IF. But what , exactly , did it mean? Surely you didn't have to go through all that just to introduce a new printer? Aside from the puzzlement above , one thing remains clear -- that IF is on the way to its fourth Hugo. Sincerely , Saltsburg, Penna. The editorial meant simply that it was a lovely, sunny day -- and you've just proved it. Ip the course of a lifetime spent in the word game -- i.e., editing in radio, television, magazines,, books, with the necessary amount of writing both fiction and fact thrown in -- I've held and still uncomfortably hold virtually every contradictory point of view expressed in the following letter. The sharp edges of all the arguments remain and I can still hurt myself without outside help on the excellent points made by both sides in the writer-editor controversy. Scars and cooperation make one answer -- and Jack Gaughan and I are experimenting with another in the In the meantime I'm grateful for the clear reportage in the following. Gentlemen: For the benefit of the unanointed who didnt attend the St. Louis co,n vention, a panel of editors admitted to tampering ( they call it editing to fit mechanical requirements ) with many writers work. One editor virtually bragged that he had cut as much as # words from some writers material and personally written as much as # words to add to other stories. Whereupon the writers -- led by Harlan Ellison , naturally! -- went up the walls en masse and ripped the acoustic hangings to shreds in an orgy of teeth gnashing . The editors fled in panic and left the field to the writers. Who -- as writers are wont to do -- immediately fell to squabbling amongst themselves. With Harlan Ellisons dulcet tones and whiplash tongue rising several decibels above the squalling multitude -- as usual.  During this lively exchange, it occurred to me that there is a " third force" who characteristically go unrepresented in this age-old controversy -- the fans who pay for all this. Strictly speaking,  am not a nonwriting fan. I do non-fiction freelance for a hobbyand secondary income. However, I have never published fiction, much less sf. This gives me an opportunity to circulate among the fans at an sf convention and hear comments that are not filtered through the nervousdulatidhenvyhate syn- drome that most fans fall into when confronted with a writer or editor . I would say that at least # of the fans supported the writers in opposing editorial tampering . Some even regard higher prices and nearly blank pages as preferable to changing the text. A surprising number mentioned noticing inconsistencies in published work and concluded that this was the result of editorial butchery -- a questionable premise,  think. Writers have their bad days, too, which often result in bumps in the literary road. Many fans commented on the widespread practice of beating a good theme to death. Honors went by a handsome margin to the Conan books, blanks left for names and places in a pile of manuscripts xeroxed in advance. Although most fans blame the editors, it seems to me that this requires a collaboration -- neither an editor nor a writer can do it alone. Although few fans commented, I feel strongly about the closely related business of editor-writer combos ganging up on a particularly successful work. Stranger in a Strange Land has been aped until it has started to grow hair by Dune World, Bug Jack Barron and several lesser lights. All are basically fictional studies of mass movements, done from slightly different viewpoints in slightly different words . Furthermore , l suspect that all these writers used Eric H offer s The True Believer for their real-life research source. I feel strongly about another area of IF plow through a story written in San skrit by a demented chimpanzee on wet toilet paper -- if the basic theme is of interest . There is a growing feeling that established publishers are putting entirely too much emphasis on smooth transitions and winnowed widows and not enough emphasis on ideas. In a related vein , a sizable minority feel that sf editors are not publishing content of interest to readers , particularly  young readers . One fan made the point that the existence of successful "fanzines' is ample proof of failure by established firms to buy and publish what the readers want. In short, fans seem to regard writers as inexhaustible founts of wisdom who will continue for all eternity to spout bright new ideas in a sparkling technicolor stream -- and editors as fitmblefingered mechanics who can be trusted only so far as to allow them the holy privilege of converting the sacred writings into a form suitable for mass duplication. Extremism like this is, of course, pure hogwash. Nevertheless, I feel that both writers and editors could do much to improve the field. The . editors by keeping their greasy mitts off the writers' work and increasing the "turnover of writers by publishing fewer sequels by established " names' ' and more new work by unpublished writers. More important, higher rates would make it possible for good writers to take the time to search for genuinely new ideas. For the editor, I would think that the increased quality would show a profit by attracting better sales. The writers by not being so damn quick to " turn pro" thereby making themselves dependent on writing to make the payments on Baby's new mink. There is much to be said for a new pro having a part-time job to provide his basic living expenses -- freeing the writer of much of the money pressure. In this position, a writer can withhold submissionto editors who butcher his work, take the necessary time to dig out truly new ideas and allow his technique to mature naturally, instead of undergoing the forced growth that too often has the same effect on a writer that weed spray has on garden plants. One of the windup speakers made a point that the movie and TV rights to much good SF. are falling into the hands of speculators who have no intention of producing anything. Given adequate income from other sources, I have long wished that writers would hang onto their movie and TV rights uhtil interest is shown by a working producer who will waive resale rights and guarantee production. It seems to me that this would produce a three-way positive feedback, in that the producer would get his story for a better price, leaving more money to put together a better product; the writer would get more money, giving him more time to write a better source story; and the consumer -- the viewer -- would respond to the increased quality with better ratings; this in turn producing more gross income. This sort of self-feeding effect needs only a small initial push to cause a big improvement in the whole field . Eugene Austin University City, Mo. uearairs: Just a line to say how much I enjoy your magazines. I am hooked for life! But I do have a couple of questions .  How about more stories about least one Retief and how about another -- Hayden Howard story on the Esks? Also one about that planet which is one long river and if you get killed you end up someplace else alive ! Seems to me you are neglecting all the men who made you what you are. Sincerely yours, Michael Lee Boren Duluth , Minn. Riverworld will return. I have deleted one of your questions. It has no answer -- the question itself is incorrect. Dear Mr. Jakobs son: Vm waiting for you to prove yourself ; and if the Oct IF is any indication , youll do. Not a clinker in the lot ; Vm not quite sure what Malzberg and Herbert were trying to do, but they wrote well enough mihat it doesn't matter much. The most pleasant things, though, were a Laumer story without the usual blood A guts, which I find even more depressing than anti-hero stories. And Chapdelaine is coming along very nicely after the abominable (A at times silly) writing of the Spork stories. Actually, if you knocked off the pompous editorials A quit replying to letters. I'd be completely content -- e.g., you agree with Matt Hickman on the square root of minus one as Heinleiris preaicnon oj transngnt velocity , wnen it should be obvious that the square root of minus one is one of the Joggers thrown in when an author has no explanation to make. As for you vs. New Wave , I agree with Cover on your paranoia. # Take over  sf indeed! If the New Wavers ever claimed to take over, it was on one premise: that their stuff is better than Old W. A so will push it out. Egotistic, yes, but your fantasies of New Wave Storm Troopers seem a smidge overblown. Meseemeth your definition of New Wave is t# anti-hero stories," which makes it easy to shrug off non-anti-hero writers who are New Wave in experimentalism, depth of character, etc. Philip Michael Cohen Ithaca, New York Eternity -- a five-part Frank Herbert story. Mrs. Carol Nelson (A faithful Reader ) P.S. Enjoyed all the stories in the October issue -- especially Take the B Train. Some readers loved Eternity. See below. Gentlemen: The Frank Herbert serial -- a magnificent continuation of his great novel. How about some Heinlein? # A Heinlein a year keeps science fiction in gear," you know. Thank you. P.G. antelidokis Thanks -- and let's all get lucky! IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are die bodes of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are die books that have proven themselves...filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your r IHrlCI #I #-I # from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human the edge of tomorrow...who will be chosen for settlement, are gathering together for war. Old immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision world colonies in order to avert this war. But not monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, nigged individualist Cully When, the type of man infused with. Mood and guts, examining the disease who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised places. Set in some future time, this action-filled and damned before it, was even published, this adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and novel deserves your personal attention. hM Wp M I tywith excitement and end # pp. LUt Price... # DUcouSt Price... # #pp. LiM Price...# DUcount Price...# #-# #-#A separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithla and Ute Planet of the Flowers, Dr. Freda Caron's a culture on Earth that has literally gone under fiance Paul has sent her an exquisite iridescent ground, provides the basis for the story of four yellow tulip that not only has a plastic memoryextraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated out can talk. Freda realizes that she must unlock to the glory of God; the scientist working for the Jhe j secrets of the flower planet and its strange glory of man; the realist who works only for himhold on Paul. In this exciting new book, Freda self; and the mad who is content to ask nothing of must travel from her ultra-rational world-ofany world, any man, or any deity rThe author protomorrow to explore the strange, unearthly flower sents a compelling moral problem. This book Is planet. The climax of this shocking and oddly something of a tour de force, beautiful novel is bizarre and delightful. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Leigh Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. M an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich must nake the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must loin the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... #. # C. M. Kombluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modem consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests, The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # # Discount Price... # # mysterious space force that inhibits the world's Intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # MA Asimov book... America's foremost science writer, takes you on a personalized guided tour of his first # books. This, his #th book, is an anthology of works selected by the author himself. It is a journey which acquaints the reader with a writer considered to be a genius, who delights in every aspect of life and has the capacity to make any subject he writes about both understandable and entertaining. Reviewers customarily greet Asimov publications with such adjectives as ling." Opus # is no exception. # pp. List Price...# Discount Price...# Hefnleln's Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessary sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was' put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi#pp. List Price... ## Discount Price... # A# P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Office, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name  address I have circled.  .  .  .  Name S-l S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# Address Sorry, No C.O.Ds. (Please add # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Rey, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: For Your Information -- Willy Ley, Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IF's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room , controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and where the editors, writers and artists blast back. Including, if you wish, The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to take Any#books.X  I  with trial membership #: A Space Odyssey #: A Arthur C. Clarke Hunting an alien "presence" In the universe, # men and a computer gone psycho tic stumble upon the incredible secret of mankind's birth -- only to trigger the cosmic "booby-trap" that could spell its death. A controversial best-seller by the most acclaimed science fiction writer of our era. best-salling novel and award-winning cinema spectacular Science Fiction has grown up. Have you kept up? A new literary ger.re has come of age -- your age. Mature Sophisticated. Provocative. And respecter. You are invited to explore it now under an amazing trial offer. Take any # volumes on this pagr (worth up to # in original publishers' editions) for only #, plus shipping and handling with trial membership.  New club selections will be described to you in advance each month. Choose from new works of fiction-and fact -- by such acclaimed authors as Bradbury, Serling, Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein and others. Volumes are full-length, hard-bound -- and uncut. Though they sell for as much as #, # and more in their original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping. (You may choose an optional extra-value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept as few as four books during the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #. science fiction book club  Please accept my application for membership and rush me I the # books whose numbers I have circled below. Bill me only I I #, plus shipping and handling, for all #. Then, every J I month, send me the Club's free bulletin. "Things to Come", which I describes coming selections. For each book I accept. I will pay only #. plus shipping and handling. I unless I take an extra-value selecI tion at a higher price. I need take  only four books within the coming  year and may resign at any time . thereafter. I delighted with my introductory I package. I may return it in # days to cancel membership. J Print I Name Circle the numbers of the # books you want. I Addn I City...Zip.  If under #, parent must sign here. (Offer good in U.S.A. only) I #. The FoundI tion Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The I ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # I #. The Illustrated J Man. Ray Bradbury. I !#stories."lntense ly real." N. Y. I Times. Now a hit movie! Pub. ed... # I #. Ubik. Philip ! K. Dick. Joe Chip I was a man from I # so why was I he in #? And  how could his dead . friend talk? Pub. ed. #   ! #. A Treasury of #-S# Great Science Fie tion. #-volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # 'Hi #. Stranger la a Strange Land, by Robert A. Heinlein. He knew the Martian love secretand it spelled his doom. Pub. ed. # #. Stand on Zanxibar, by John Brunner. Extrapotury. # pages. Pub. ed. # #. The Fanco File, by Burl Cole. Gov't computer baffled by Devalove priestess! Pub. ed. # #. Last Starship From Earth by John Boyd. Young lovers flee loveless society ruled by computer "god Pub. ed. #. #. #, Robot, by Isaac Asimov. Long out of print. "An enticing thriller."-N. Y. Times. Pub. ed. # #. Dangerous Visions. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon. Anderson, others. Pub. ed. # #. Nova, by Samuel R. Delaney. Battle between alien worlds -- and a desperate race to the sun. Pub. ed. #. Omnivore. Piers Anthony. By what trick did the # scientists escape Nacre when # others failed? Printed in U.S.A.  Of War and th Moon I sos i  Poul Anderson Clifforjd Sirnak II the magazine of alternatives L tt  . t #  #v#L pr y " g pr  IbSpPs  il  Ur The best fiction is science fiction; and the best Leader in the science-fiction field for almost two decades! Presenting the finest writers: Asimov, Pohl, del Rey, Leiber, Anderson, Herbert Vance, Simak, Dickson, Blish, Silverberg, Ellison, Knight, Harrison, Aldiss, Niven, Clement. Popular monthly columns: Galaxy Bookshelf -- Algis Budrys. Three-time winner of the coveted Hugo, science-fiction's Oscar; voted the best sf magazine in the world. IF's regular authors include: Keith "Retief" Laumer, Andre Norton, C. C. MacApp, Mack Reynolds, Roger Zelazny, Samuel R. Delany, Philip Jose Farmer. Features: The Reading Room, controversial book reviews by Lester del Rey. Hue and Cry where the readers praise or blast the editors, writers and artists -- and where the editors, writers and artists blast back. na March, # Vol. #, No. # Issua # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Frederik Pohl, Editor Emeritus Judy-Lynn Benjamin , Managing Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor L. C. Murphy , Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N Y. # #c per copy. #-issue subscription: # # in the United States, elsewhere J# Second class postage paid at New York, N Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright c # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental Title registered U S. Patent Office. Printed in U S A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Readers write -- and wrong! most gratifying piece of mail goes to the following: Dear Sir: For the editorial in your issue of November, # (Galaxy), three cheers . With my respects. Very truly yours, Stanley Katz Professor School of Engineering and Architecture City College, N. Y. The response to the November Galaxy and December If editorials ( Brain Pollution and Skintelligence, respectively and dealing with the undemonstrated correlation between skin color and intelligence) has been beautiful, pro and con, and suggests that people as a species might yet make it. Among the most edifying is the next: Dear Mr. Jakobsson: It is interesting to note how Campbell absolutely refuses to accept statistical evidence connecting smoking with cancer and heart disease, and yet uses it without qualms in the area of IQ which is a very ill-defined concept at best. The definition of IQ as that which IQ tests measure is about as useful as any, although in college Prof. Russel Ackoff (then Director of Operations Research at Case) defined it as the second partial derivative of knowledge with respect to changes in environment and time. That sounds impressive, but just try to use it. I suspect that if you compared the average IQ's of any two groups, you would find a difference; and probably could decide in advance which group you wanted to score best badly biased. Individual variations within each group would be far greater than the difference between the groups. Actually, variations within a single person can be quite large. All of us have fields of knowledge which we absorb very readily, and others which we can't get into our thick heads no matter how hard we try. Since IQ is supposed to be a measure of how easily we learn, a test can be very easily biased. I, personally, have been tested with (Please turn to page # ) to figure out how much you hate missing the best story of your favorite writer or the major part of a great novel. But we can't compute a formula to stock every newsstand in the country with enough copies of our popular magazines to satisfy every reader. So we sometimes miss you and you miss us -- and that's a double tragedy. It doesn't take a genius to handle it, either. All it takes is a minute of your time, for which we want to repay you with a handsome saving over the newsstand price. Just fill in the coupon -- or write the information on a piece of plain paper -- and mail it to us. Then you'll be sure instead of sorry. rate. I enclose my check or money order for:  # issues of each for #  # issues of each for #  # issues of each for #I .# Name Zip Code... outside the Western Hemisphere add # per # issues for postage Please check whether  new or  renewal Address... , City  State She was unfaithful unto death -- but not her own! moon Ted Trymble came home from golf and found his wife had been unfaithful to him. The evidence was there -- right outside his front door -- for all the world to see. "Why did you do it, Maggie?" he demanded, setting his clubs down in a corner with exaggerated care. He kept his face immobile and his voice crisp, pretending to be not unduly shocked, though inwardly he was praying to hear it was all a mistake. But Maggie smiled her calm, careless smile and shrugged. "It was just an impulse," she said. "An irresistible impulse." Ted went to the window and eyed the evidence. The black Turbo-Cadillac was almost as long as the house and its haunches gleamed in the late afternoon sun like those of a panther about to spring. So she was admitting it, just like that. "Maggie," he said reasonably. "Everybody gets that kind of impulse now and then. One simply has to learn to control it." "I can't," she replied blandly. "When I find something I like -- I buy it." "I see." Ted strode into the kitchen, took a beer bulb from the refrigerator and squirted some of the frothy liquid into his mouth. He sat down in the cool seclusion of the dining alcove to consider the matter of his wife's dereliction. Maggie's parents had left her an -- Ted knew the sum to a penny but preferred to think in round numbers -- the income from which was just enough to maintain Ted and her in modest comfort for the rest of their lives. When they became engaged the agreement was that the capital would be kept intact. Ted was a personable young man and knew he could probably have married real money but he had exchanged his boyish hopes of some day owning a private airplane and yacht for the certitude of never having to work. And he had been prepared to stick to the bargain because marriage was, in his opinion, still a sacred covenant. The trouble was that Maggie appeared not to share his high sense of principle. She had just blown a noticeable fraction of their livelihood in one afternoon. A pang of anguish caused Ted's fingers to clamp inward on the plastic bulb and a wavering stream of beer leaped across the kitchen. He composed himself with an effort and went back into the lounge. "I forgive you this time, Maggie," he said stiffly. "I guess it won't do any harm for me to be seen in a better car but you must promise not to betray our wedding vows again." "Of course, honey." IF Maggie spoke with a lack of effort Ted found disturbing and she went on flicking the glowing pages of a tri-di magazine. Two days later he came home from a morning's workout in the gymnasium to find that his fears had been well founded. Maggie was sporting a bracelet of genuine green-veined Venusian gold costing roughly ten times as much as its counterpart in Earth gold would have. "I promised not to buy another car," was her defense. "This isn't another car, is it? It doesn't look much like a car to me." She flirted her wrist in his face and the bracelet's chunky links clicked like the action of a welloiled rifle. "It isn't a car," Ted agreed, "but it's something we can afford even less. What about our investments?" "This is an investment. Isn't gold an investment?" "Not that kind. Don't you ever read the financial pages? Don't you know that big nuclear powered ships have just been proved out on the Venus and Mars hauls? The cost of Venusian gold at the moment is ninety per cent freight charge but by this time next year it'll be as common as dirt." Maggie sniffed disbelievingly. "Well, I was bored sitting here by myself. Other girls' husbands stay at home with them." "Bored?" Ted was aghast. "You absolutely seem to forget that when those other guys are swanning round the house watching television and getting fat -- I'm working hard to build up health. That's a marriage partner's most important duty -- to keep himself healthy." "Oh, Jesus," Maggie whispered. "What have I done?" Three days later, while Ted was surfing, she bought a luminous mink costing as much as the car and the bracelet put together. Ted examined the price tag, then went into the kitchen, took a beer bulb in each hand and expended them in a foaming orgasm of fury. When calmness returned he went back to the lounge and greeted his wife with a numb smile. "It has just occurred to me that I've been neglecting you a little, Maggie. Let's go out tonight and see what we can do about hitting the town." Maggie's eyes flickered with enthusiasm. She hurried away to engage in lengthy cosmetic rituals and that night she really did hit the town. When she was too full of assorted liquors to be aware of what was happening, Ted pushed her out through the window of their thirdfloor bedroom. T HE fall did not kill Maggie but the damage to her lower spine was such that she was confined to a wheelchair for life. As the Trymbles' house was tall and narrow -- with a steep flight of steps at the door -- Ted felt that his wife was as good as dead. She could not, at any rate, get to the expensive stores, where she would be tempted to further acts of infidelity. With a minimum of prompting from him she sold the car and the coat at a relatively small loss but insisted on retaining the bracelet of green-veined Venusian gold. "What's the point of keeping it?" he pleaded. "I mean, you don't even go out now." "It's company for me. Something I can look at." "But there must be more interesting things to look at -- how about a television set?" To Ted's surprise, his wife showed interest in the suggestion. "If I sell the bracelet will you get me a set?" "Of course, sweetie." "Any kind of a television set?" He sensed the trap immediately but in his mind's eye he could see the big nuclear-powered ships speeding toward Earth with cargoes of cheaper Venusian gold and he decided play along. "Any kind of set you want, Maggie. You know how bad I feel about you being tied to that chair all the time." "That's nice of you, honey. I'd like a Telemart Three." Ted swallowed unhappily. He detested television as an opiate which sapped a man's strength of body and mind -- he even had an aversion to reading about technical developments in the field. But he knew about the Telemart Three. The set was ordered that day and Ted's uphappiness increased as he watched the technicians position the eight-foot proscenium and arch at one end of the lounge. Working with blunt efficiency they ripped out the floor below the proscenium and ran a mass of cables, conduits and wave guides down to the raw materials tank they were installing in the basement. Four hours later the job was completed and a Telemart sales exec formally presented Maggie with a white-and-gold brochure. He then placed the remote control set in her hand with the air of an English archbishop conferring the orb and sceptre of his sovereign. "This is your on-off switch and channel selector," he said, addressing himself intensely to Maggie and ignoring Ted. He moved the switch and a pretty girl in a silver dress appeared on the proscenium, singing in the low voice of a French diseuse. The only way in which she could be distinguished from real flesh-and-blood was a slight tendency to glow, which made her brighter than the other people in the room. "Oops," the sales exec said. "If the image is too bright you do this." He moved a knob and the girl dimmed to normalcy. "It's wonderful," Maggie IF breathed. "When do we get the commercials?" "You shouldn't have long to wait," the exec said benignly, his eyes gleaming behind old-fashioned homrims. A few seconds later the silver girl finished her song and vanished, to be replaced by a handsome, tanned man in beachwear. He reclined on a sun chair on a shockingly real area of honey-colored sand and in his hand was a dewy-cold bottle of Tingle-lime. Ted started involuntarily -- he could actually smell sea air mingled with the keen tang of the soft drink. He examined the small orifices in the edge of the proscenium, looking for visible signs of gas being emitted. He saw nothing. "... why don't you join me?" the image was saying. "Join me now." "Shall I?" Maggie asked excitedly. "Only if you can use some Tingle-lime." the exec replied. "We urge all our clients to buy only what they really need." "We drink lots of Tinglelime." "No, we don't Ted put in. He was too late. Maggie had pressed the "accept" button on her handset and a crate of a dozen king-size Tingle-limes appeared, amid a faint ozonic crackling, on the small catwalk attached to the front of the proscenium. The exec lifted the crate, carried it to Maggie's chair and with a flourish opened one of the plastic bottles. Maggie took it and sipped the green liquid eagerly. "It's perfect -- even better than the stuff we get at the store." "It ought to be. Anything you buy in a store is bound to have been on the shelves for some time, possibly months, but goods you buy through Telemart Three are created specially for you on the instant of purchase." "How can that be?" Ted felt he had been silent too long. "As I understand it, there has to be a crate of Tingle-limes at the broadcasting station. It gets scanned with Roentgen rays and the details of its molecular structure are V broadcast on a separate channel from the one which carries the programs and commercials. Right?" "That's true, but -- " "If someone presses the 'accept' button, the molecular blueprint coming through al that time is used to build up a replica of the transmitted object from the raw materials bank in the basement. Right?" "Right again, but -- " "So how do we know the original crate of pop hasn't been lying on a shelf at the station, possibly for months?" "You know because the Telemart Corporation stands on its word as given in this brochure," the exec said in a hurt voice. He ( Please turn to page #) He was judged and damned to hell -- and hell was Earth I had been climbed by homing  wildcats to reach the den gouged knew what the hills had seen cliff's sheer face. He lived alone on through geologic time. He listened a worn-out farm perched on a high to the stars and spelled out what and narrow ridge that overlooked the stars were saying. He had the confluence of two rivers. And found the creature that lay imhis next-door neighbor, a most illprisoned in the stone. He had favored man, drove to the county climbed the tree that in other days seat, thirty miles away, to tell the sheriff that this reader of the hills, this listener to the stars was a chicken thief. T HE sheriff dropped by within a week or so and walked across the yard to where the man was sitting in a rocking chair on a porch that faced the river hills. The sheriff came to a halt at the foot of the stairs that ran up to the porch. "I'm Sheriff Harley Shepherd," he said. "I was just driving by. Been some years since I been out in this neck of the woods. You are new here, aren't you?" The man rose to his feet and gestured at another chair. "Been here three years or so," he said. "The name is Wallace Daniels. Come up and sit with me." The sheriff climbed the. stairs and the two shook hands, then sat down in the chairs. "You don't farm the place," the sheriff said. The weed-grown fields came up to the fence that hemmed in the yard. Daniels shook his head. "Subsistence farming, if you can call it that. A few chickens for eggs. A couple of cows for milk and butter. Some hogs for meat -- the neighbors help me butcher. A garden, of course, but that's about the story." "Just as well," the sheriff said. "The place is all played out. Old He never was no farmer." "The land is resting now," said Daniels. "Give it ten years -- twenty might be better -- and it will ready once again. The only things it's good for now are the rabbits and the woodchucks and the meadow mice. A lot of birds, of course. I've got the finest covey of quail a man has ever seen." "Used to be good squirrel country," said the sheriff. "Coon, too. I suppose you still have coon. You a hunter, Mr. Daniels?" "I don't own a gun," said Daniels. The sheriff settled deeply into the chair, rocking gently. "Pretty country out here," he declared. "Especially with the leaves turning colors. A lot of hardwood and they are colorful. Rough as all hell, of course, this land of yours. Straight up and down, the most of it. But pretty." "It's old country," Daniels said. "The last sea retreated from this area more than four hundred million years ago. It has stood as dry land since the end of the Silurian. Unless you go up north, onto the Canadian Shield, there aren't many places in this country you can find as old as this." "You a geologist, Mr. Daniels?" "Not really. Interested, is all. The rankest amateur. I need something to fill in my time and I do a lot of hiking, scrambling up and down these hills. And you can't do that without coming face to face with a lot of geology. I got interested. Found some fossil brachioIF pods and got to wondering about them. Sent off for some books and read up on them. One thing led to another and -- " "Brachiopods? Would they be dinosaurs, or what? I never knew there were dinosaurs out this way." "Not dinosaurs," said Daniels. "Earlier than dinosaurs, at least the ones I found. They're small. Something like clams or oysters. But the shells are hinged in a different sort of way. These were old But we still have a few brachiopods living now. Not too many of them." "It must be interesting." "I find it so," said Daniels. ams?" "No. He was dead before I came here. Bought the land from the bank that was settling his estate." said. "Fought with all his neighbors. Especially with Ben Adams. Him and Ben had a line fence feud going on for years. Ben said Amos refused to keep up the fence. Amos claimed Ben knocked it down and then sort of, carelesslike, hazed his cattle over into Amos's hayfield. How you get along with Ben?" "All right," Daniels said. "No trouble. I scarcely know the man." "Ben don't do much farming, either," said the sheriff. "Hunts and fishes, hunts ginseng, does some trapping in the winter. Prospects for minerals now and then." "There are minerals in these hills," said Daniels. "Lead and zinc. But it would cost more to get it out than it would be worth. At present prices, that is." "Ben always has some scheme cooking," said the sheriff. "Always off on some wild goose chase. And he's a pure pugnacious man. Always has his nose out of joint about something. Always on the prod for trouble. Bad man to have for an enemy. Was in the other day to say someone's been lifting a hen or two of his. You haven't been missing any, have you?" Daniels grinned. "There's a fox that levies a sort of tribute on the coop every now and then. I don't begrudge them to him." "Funny thing," the sheriff said. "There ain't nothing can rile up a farmer like a little chicken stealing. It don't amount to shucks, of course, but they get real hostile at it." "If Ben has been losing chickens," Daniels said, "more than likely the culprit is my fox." "Your fox? You talk as if you own him." "Of course I don't. No one owns a fox. But he lives in these hills with me. I figure we are neighbors. I see him every now and then and watch him. Maybe that means I own a piece of him. Although I wouldn't be surprised if he watches me more than I watch him. He moves quicker than I do." The sheriff heaved himself out of the chair. "I hate to go," he said. "I declare it has been restful sitting here and talking with you and looking at the hills. You look at them a lot, I take it." "Quite a lot," said Daniels. i watched the sheriffs car top the rise far down the ridge and disappear from sight. What had it all been about? He wondered. The sheriff hadn't just happened to be passing by. He'd been on an errand. All his aimless, friendly talk had not been for nothing and in the course of it he'd managed to ask lots of questions. Something about Ben Adams, maybe? Except there wasn't too much against Adams except he was bone-lazy. Lazy in a weasely sort of way. Maybe the sheriff had gotten wind of Adam's off-and-on moonshining operation and was out to do some checking, hoping that some neighbor might misspeak himself. None of them would, of course, for it was none of their business, really, and the moonshining had built up no nuisance value. What little liquor Ben might make didn't amount to much. He was too lazy for anything he did to amount to much. From far down the hill he heard the tinkle of a bell. The two cows were finally heading home. It must be much later, Daniels told himself, than he had thought. Not that he paid much attention to what time it was. He hadn't for long months on end, ever since he'd smashed his watch when he'd fallen off the ledge. He had never bothered to have the watch fixed. He didn't need a watch. There was a battered old alarm clock in the kitchen but it was an erratic piece of mechanism and not to be relied upon. He paid slight attention to it. In a little while, he thought, he'd have to rouse himself and go and do the chores -- milk the cows, feed the hogs and chickens, gather up the eggs. Since the garden had been laid by there hadn't been much to do. One of these days he'd have to bring in the squashes and store them in the cellar and there were those three or four big pumpkins he'd have to lug down the hollow to the Perkins kids, so they'd have them in time to make jack-o-lanterns for Hallowe'en. He wondered if he should carve out the faces himself or if the kids would rather do it on their own. But the cows were still quite a distance away and he still had time. He sat easy in his chair and stared across the hills. And they began to shift and change as he stared. When he had first seen it, the phenomenon had scared him silly. But now he was used to it. As he watched, the hills changed IF into different ones. Different vegetation and strange life stirred on them. A herd of them, not very big ones. Middle Triassic, more than likely. And this time it was only a distant view -- he, himself, was not to become involved. He would only see, from a distance, what ancient time was like and would not be thrust into the middle of it as most often was the case. He was glad. There Were chores to do. Watching, he wondered once again what more he could do. It was not the dinosaurs that concerned him, or the earlier amphibians, or all the other creatures that moved in time about the hills. What disturbed him was that other being that lay buried deep beneath the Platteville limestone. Someone else should know about it. The knowledge of it should be kept alive so that in the days to come -- perhaps in another hundred years -- when man's technology had reached the point where it was possible to cope with such a problem, something could be done to contact -- and perhaps to free -- , the dweller in the stone. There would be a record, of course, a written record. He would see to that. Already that record was in progress -- a week by week . (at times a day to day) account of what he had seen, heard and learned...Three large record books now were filled with his careful writing and another one was well started. All written down as honestly and as carefully and as objectively as he could bring himself to do it. But who would believe what he had written? More to the point, who would bother to look at it? More than likely the books would gather dust on some hidden shelf until the end of time with no human hand ever laid upon them. And even if someone, in some future time, should take them down and read them, first blowing away the accumulated dust, would he or she be likely to believe? The answer lay clear. He must convince someone. Words written by a man long dead -- and by a man of no reputation -- could be easily dismissed as the product of a neurotic mind. But if some scientist of solid reputation could be made to listen, could be made to endorse the record, the events that paraded across these hills and lay within them could stand on solid ground, worthy of full investigation at some future date. A biologist? Or a neuropsychiatrist. Or a paleontologist? Perhaps it didn't matter what branch of science the man was in. Just so he'd listen without laughter. It was most important that he listen without laughter. Sitting on the porch, staring at the hills dotted with grazing dinosaurs, the listener to the stars remembered the time he had gone to see the palaeontologist. B EN," the sheriff said, "you're way out in left field. That Daniels fellow wouldn't steal no chickens. He's got chickens of his own." "The question is," said Adams, "how did he get them chickens?" "That makes no sense," the sheriff said. "He's a gentleman. You can tell that just by talking with him. An educated gentleman." "If he's a gentleman," asked Adams, "what's he doing out here? This ain't no place for gentlemen. He showed up two or three years ago and moved out to this place. Since that day he hasn't done a tap of work. All he does is wander up and down the hills." "He's a geologist," said the sheriff. "Or anyway interested in geology. A sort of hobby with him. He tells me he looks for fossils." Adams assumed the alert look of a dog that has sighted a rabbit. "So that is it," he said. "I bet you it ain't fossils he is looking for." "No," the sheriff said. "He's looking for minerals," said Adams. "He's prospecting, that's what he's doing. These hills crawl with minerals. All you have to do is know where to look." i "You've spent a lot of time looking," observed the sheriff. "I ain't no geologist. A geologist would have a big advantage. He would know rocks and such." "He didn't talk as if he were doing any prospecting. Just interested in the geology, is all. He found some fossil clams." "He might be looking for treasure caves," said Adams. "He might have a map or something." "You know damn well," the sheriff said, "there are no treasure caves." "There must be," Adams insisted. "The French and Spanish were here in the early days. They were great ones for treasure, the French and Spanish. Always running after mines. Always hiding things in caves. There was that cave over across the river where they found a skeleton in Spanish armor and the skeleton of a bear beside him, with a rusty sword stuck into where the bear's gizzard was." "That was just a story," said the sheriff, disgusted. "Some damn fool started it and there was nothing to it. Some people from the university came out and tried to run it down. It developed that there wasn't a word of truth in it.' "But Daniels has been messing around with caves," said Adams. "I've seen him. He spends a lot of time in that cave down on Cat Den Point. Got to climb a tree to get to it." " Y ou been watching him?" "Sure I been watching him. He's up to something and I want to know what it is." IF "Just be sure he doesn't catch you doing it," the sheriff said. pass. "Well, anyhow," he said, "if there aren't any treasure caves, there's a lot of lead and zinc. The man who finds it is about to "Not unless he can find the capital to back him," the sheriff pointed out. Adams dug at the ground with his heel. "You think he's all right, do you?" "He tells me he's been losing some chickens to a fox. More than likely that's what has been happening to yours." "If a fox is taking his chickens," Adams asked, "why don't he shoot it?" "He isn't sore about it. He seems to think the fox has got a right to. He hasn't even got a gun." "Well, if he hasn't got a gun and doesn't care to hunt himself -- then why won't he let other people hunt? He won't let me and my boys on his place with a gun. He has his place all posted. That seems to me to be unneighborly. That's one of the things that makes it so hard to get along with him. We've always hunted on that place. Old Amos wasn't an easy man to get along with but he never cared if we did some hunting. We've always hunted all around here. No one ever minded. Seems to me hunting should be free. Seems right for a man to hunt wherever he's a mind to " Sitting on the bench on the hardpacked earth in front of the ramshackle house, the sheriff looked about him -- at the listlessly scratching chickens, at the scrawny hound sleeping in the shade, its hide twitching against the few remaining flies, at the clothesline strung between two trees and loaded with drying clothes and dish towels, at the washtub balanced on its edge on a wash bench leaning against the side of the house. Christ, he thought, the man should be able to find the time to  put up a decent clothesline and not just string a rope between two trees. "Ben," he said, "you're just trying to stir up trouble. You resent Daniels, a man living on a farm who doesn't work at farming and you're sore because he won't let you hunt his land. He's got a right to live anywhere he wants to and he's got a right not to let you hunt. I'd lay off him if I were you. You don't have to like him, you don't have to have anything to do with him -- but don't go around spreading fake accusations against the man. He could jerk you up in court for that." II eontologist's office and it had taken him a moment finally to see the man seated toward the back of the room at a cluttered desk. The entire place was cluttered. There were long tables covered with chunks of rock with embedded fossils. Scattered here and there were stacks of papers. The room was large and badly lighted. It was a dingy and depressing place. "Doctor?" Daniels had asked. "Are you Dr. Thorne?" The man rose and deposited a pipe in a cluttered ash tray. He was big, burly, with graying hair that had a wild look to it. His face was seamed and weather-beaten. When he moved he shuffled like a bear. "You must be Daniels," he said. "Yes, I see you must be. I had you on my calendar for three o'clock. So glad you could come." His great paw engulfed Daniel's hand. He pointed to a chair beside the desk, sat down and retrieved his pipe from the overflowing tray, began packing it from a large canister that stood on the desk. "Your letter said you wanted to see me about something important," he said. "But then that's what they all say. But there must have been something about your letter -- an urgency, a sincerity. I haven't the time, you understand, to see everyone who writes. All of them have found something, you see. What is it, Mr. Daniels, that you have found?" Daniels said, "Doctor, I don't quite know how to start what I have to say. Perhaps it would be best to tell you first that something had happened to my brain." Thorne was lighting his pipe. He talked around the stem. "In such a case, perhaps I am not the man you should be talking to. There are other people -- " "No, that's not what I mean," said Daniels. "I'm not seeking help. I am quite all right physically and mentally, too. About five years ago I was in a highway accident. My wife and daughter were killed and I was badly hurt and -- " "I am sorry, Mr. Daniels." "Thank you -- but that is all in .the past. It was rough for a time but I muddled through it. That's not what I'm here for. I told you I was badly hurt -- " "Brain damage?" "Only minor. Or so far as the medical findings are concerned. Very minor damage that seemed to clear up rather soon. The bad part was the crushed chest and punctured lung." "But you're all right now?" "As good as new," said Daniels. "But since the accident my brain's been different. As if I had new senses. I see things, understand things that seem impossible." "You mean you have hallucinations?" "Not hallucinations. I am sure of that. I can see the past." "How do you mean -- see the past?" "Let me try to tell you," Daniels IF said, "exactly how it started. Several years ago I bought an abandoned farm in southwestern Wisconsin. A place to hole up in, a place to hide away. With my wife and daughter gone I still was recoiling from the world. I had gotten through the first brutal shock but I needed a place where I could lick my wounds. If this sounds like self-pity -- I don't mean it that way. I am trying to be objective about why I acted as I did, why I bought the farm." "Yes, I understand," said Thorne. "But I'm not entirely sure hiding was the wisest thing to do." "Perhaps not, but it seemed to me the answer. It has worked out rather well. I fell in love with the country. That part of Wisconsin is ancient land. It had stood uncovered by the sea for four hundred was not overridden by the Pleistocene glaciers. It has changed, of course, but only as the result of weathering. There have been no great geologic upheavals, no massive erosions -- nothing to disturb it." "Mr. Daniels," said Thorne, somewhat testily, "I don't quite see what all this has to do -- " "I'm sorry. I am just trying to lay the background for what I came to tell you. It came on rather slowly at first and I thought that I was crazy, that I was seeing things, that there had been more brain damage than had been apparent -- or that I was finally cracking up. I did a lot of walking in the hills, you see. The country is wild and rugged and beautiful -- a good place to be out in. The walking made me tired and I could sleep at night. But at times the hills changed. Only a little at first. Later on they changed more and finally they became places I had never seen before, that no one had ever seen before." Thorne scowled. "You are trying to tell me they changed into the past." vegetation, funny-looking trees. In the earlier times, of course, no grass at all. Underbrush of ferns and scouring rushes. Strange animals, strange things in the sky. Sabretooth cats and mastodons, pterosaurs and uintatheres and -- " "All at the same time?" Thorne asked, interrupting. "All mixed up?" "Not at all. The time periods I see seem to be true time periods. Nothing out of place. I didn't know at first -- but when I was able to convince myself that I was not hallucinating I sent away for books. I studied. I'll never be an expert, of course -- never a geologist or paleontologist -- but I learned enough to distinguish one period from another, to have some idea of what I was looking at." Thorne took his pipe out of his mouth and perched it in the ash tray. He ran a massive hand through his wild hair. It's unbelievable' he said. "It simply couldn't happen. You said all this business came on rather slowly?" "To begin with it was hazy, the past foggily imposed upon the present, then the present would slowly fade and the past came in, real and solid. But it's different now. Once in a while there's a bit of flickering as the present gives way to past -- but mostly it simply changes, as if at the snap of a finger. The present goes away and I'm standing in the past. The past is all around me. Nothing of the present is left." "But you aren't really in the past? Physically, I mean." "There are times when I'm not in it at all. I stand in the present and the distant hills or the river valley changes. But ordinarily it changes all around me, although the funny thing about it is that, as you say, I'm not really in it. I can see it and it seems real enough for me to walk around in it. I can walk over to a tree and put my hand out to feel it and the tree is there. But I seem to make no impact on the past. It's as if I were not there at all. The animals do not see me. I've walked up to within a few feet of dinosaurs. They can't see me or hear or smell me. If they had I'd have been dead a dozen times. It's as if I were walking through a three-dimensional movie. At first I worried a lot about the surface differences that might exist. I'd wake up dreaming of going into the past and being buried up to my waist in a rise of ground that since has eroded away. But it doesn't work that way. I'm walking along in the present and then I'm walking in the past. It's as if a door were there and I stepped through it. I told you I don't really seem to be in the past -- but I'm not in the present, either. I tried to get some proof. I took a camera with me and shot a lot of pictures. When the films were developed there was nothing on them. Not the past -- but what is more important, not the present, either. If I had been hallucinating, the camera should have caught pictures of the present. But apparently there was nothing there for the camera to take. I thought maybe the camera failed or I had the wrong kind of film. So I tried several cameras and different types of film and nothing happened. I got no pictures. I tried bringing something back. I picked flowers, after there were flowers. I had no trouble picking them but when I came back to the present I was empty-handed. I tried to bring back other things as well. I thought maybe it was only live things, like flowers, that I couldn't bring, so I tried inorganic things -- like rocks -- but I never was able to bring anything back." "How about a sketch pad?" IF "I thought of that but I never used one. I'm no good at sketching -- besides, l figured, what was the use. The pad would come back blank." "But you never tried." "No," said Daniels. "I never tried. Occassionally I do make sketches after I get back to the present. Not every time but sometimes. From memory. But, as I said, I'm not very good at sketching. "I don't know," said Thorne. "I don't really know. This all sounds incredible. But if there should be something to it -- Tell me, were you ever frightened? You seem quite calm and matter-of-fact about it now. But at first you must have been frightened." "At first," said Daniels, "I was petrified. Not only was I scared, physically scared -- frightened for my safety, frightened that I'd fallen into a place from which I never could escape -- but also afraid that I'd gone insane. And there was the loneliness." "What do you mean -- loneliness? "Maybe that's not the right word. Out of place. I was where I had no right to be. Lost in a place where man had not as yet appeared of years. In a word so utterly alien that I wanted to hunker down and shiver. But I, not the place, was really the alien there. I still get some of that feeling every now and then. I know about it, of course, and am braced against it but at times it still gets to me. I'm a stranger to the air and the light of that other time -- it's all imagination, of course." "Not necessarily," said Thorne. "But the greatest fear is' gone now, entirely gone. The fear I was insane. I am convinced now." "How are you convinced? How could a man be convinced?" "The animals. The creatures I see -- " "You mean you recognize them from the illustrations in those books you have been reading." "No, not that. Not entirely that. Of course the pictures helped. But actually it's the other way around. Not the likenesses, but the differences. You see, none of the creatures are exactly like the pictures in the books. Some of them not at all like them. Not like the reconstructions the paleontologists put together. If they had been I might still have thought they were hallucinations, that what I was seeing was influenced by what I'd seen or read. I could have been feeding my imagination on prior knowledge. But since that was not the case, it seemed logical to assume that what I see is real. How could I imagine that Tyrannosaurus had dewlaps all the colors of the rainbow. How could l imagine that some of the sabertooths had tassels on their ears? How could anyone possibly imagine that the big thunder beasts of the Eocene had hides as colorful as giraffes?" "Mr. Daniels," said Thorne, "I have great reservations about all that you have told me. Every fiber of my training rebels against it. I have a feeling that I should waste no time on it. Undoubtedly, you believe what you have told me. You have the look of an honest man about you. Have you talked to any other men about this? Any other paleontologists or geologists? Perhaps a neuropsychiatrist?" "No," said Daniels. "You're the only person, the only man I have talked with. And I haven't told you all of it. This is really all just background." "My God, man -- just background?" "Yes, just background. You see, I also listen to the stars." Thorne got up from his chair, began shuffling together a stack of papers. He retrieved the dead pipe from the ash tray and stuck it in his mouth. His voice, when he spoke, was noncommittal. "Thank you for coming in," he said. "It's been most interesting." Ill A ND that was where he had made his mistake, Daniels told himself. He never should have mentioned listening to the stars. His interview had gone well until he had. Thorne had not believed him, of course, but he had been intrigued, would have listened further, might even have pursued the matter, although undoubtedly secretly and very cautiously. At fault, Daniels knew, had been his obsession with the creature in the stone. The past was nothing -- it was the creature in the stone that was important and to tell of it, to explain it and how he knew that it was there, he must tell about his listening to the stars. He should have known better, he told himself. He should have held his tongue. But here had been a man who, while doubting, still laughter and, in his thankfulness Daniels had spoken too much. The wick of the oil lamp set upon the kitchen table guttered in the air currents that came in around the edges of the ill-fitting windows. A wind had risen after chores were done and now shook the house with galelike blasts. On the far side of the room the fire in the wood-burning stove threw friendly, wavering flares of light across the floor and the stovepipe, in response to the wind that swept the chimney top, made gurgling, sucking sounds. Thorne had mentioned a neuropsychiatrist, Daniels remembered, and perhaps that was the kind of man he should have gone to see. Perhaps, before he attempted to interest anyone in what he could IF see or hear, he should make an effort to find out why and how he could hear and see these things. A man who studied the workings of the brain and mind might come up with new answers -- if answers were to be had. Had that blow upon his head so rearranged, so shifted some process in his brain that he had gained new capabilities? Was it possible that his brain had been so jarred, so disarranged as to bring into play certain latent talents that possibly, in millennia to come, might have developed naturally by evolutionary means? Had the brain damage short-circuited evolution and given him -- and him alone -- these capabilities, these senses, time? It seemed -- well, not reasonable but one possible explanation. Still, A trained man night have some other explanation. He pushed his chair back from the table and walked over to the stove. He used the lifter to raise the lid of the rickety old cook stove. The wood in the firebox had burned down to embers. Stooping, he picked up a stick of wood from the woodbox and fitted it in, added another smaller one and replaced the lid. One of these days soon, he told himself, he would have to get the furnace in shape for operation. He went out to stand on the porch, looking toward the river hills. The wind whooped out of the north, whistling around the corners of the building and booming in the deep hollows that ran down to the river but the sky was clear -- steely clear, wiped fresh by the wind and sprinkled with stars, their light shivering in the raging atmosphere. Looking up at the stars, he wondered what they might be saying but he didn't try to listen. It took a lot of effort and concentration to listen to the stars. He had first listened to them on a night like this, standing out here on the porch and wondering what they might be saying, wondering if the stars did talk among fhemselves. A foolish, vagrant thought, a wild, daydreaming sort of notion but, voicing it, he had tried to listen, knowing even as he did that it was foolishness but glorying in his foolishness, telling himself how fortunate he was that he could afford to be so inane as to try to listen to the stars -- as a child might believe in Santa Claus or the Easter rabbit. He'd listened and he'd heard and while he'd been astonished, there could be no doubt about it, no doubt at all that out there somewhere other beings were talking back and forth. He might have been listening in on a party line, he thought, but a party line that of long-distance conversations. Not words, of course, but something (thought, perhaps) that was as plain as words. Not all of it understandable -- much of it, as a matter of fact, not understandable -- possibly because his background and his learning gave him no basis for an understanding. He compared himself to an Australian aborigine listening to the conversation of a couple of nuclear physicists discussing a new theory. Shortly after that, when he had been exploring the shallow cave down on Cat Den Point, he had picked up his first indication of the creature buried in the stone. Perhaps, he thought, if he'd not listened to the stars, if he'd not known he could listen to the stars, if he'd not trained his mind by listening, he would not have heard the creature buried deep beneath the limestone. He stood looking at the stars and listening to the wind and, far across the river, on a road that wound over the distant hills, he caught the faint glimmer of headlights as a car made it way through the night. The wind let up for a moment, as if gathering its strength to blow yet even harder and, in the tiny lull that existed before the wind took up again, he heard another sound -- the sound of an axe hitting wood. He listened carefully and the sound came again but so tossed about by the wind that he could not be sure of its direction. He must be mistaken, he thought. No one would be out and chopping on a night like this. Coon hunters might be the answer. Coon hunters at times chopped down a tree to dislodge a prey too well hidden to be spotted. The unsportsmanlike trick was one that Ben Adams and his overgrown, gangling sons might engage in. But this was no night for coon hunting. The wind would blow away scent and the dogs would be unable to track. Quiet nights were the best for hunting coon. And no one would be insane enough to cut down a tree on a night like this when a swirling wind might catch it and topple it back upon the cutters. He listened to catch the sound again but the wind, recovering from its lull, was blowing harder than ever now and there was no chance of hearing any sound smaller than the wind. T HE next day came in mild and gray, the wind no more than a whisper. Once in the night Daniels had awoken to hear it rattling the windows, pounding at the house and howling mournfully in the tangled hollows that lay above the river. But when he wok-e again all was quiet and faint light was graying the windows. Dressed and out of doors he found a land of peace -- the sky so overcast that there was no hint of sun, the air fresh, as if newly washed but heavy with the moist grayness that overlay the land. The autumn foliage IF that clothes the hills had taken on a richer luster than it had worn in the flooding autumn sunlight. After chores and breakfast Daniels set out for the hills. As he went down the slope toward the head of the first hollow he found himself hoping that the geologic shift would not come about today. There were many times it didn't and there seemed to be no reason to its taking place or its failure to take place. He had tried at times to find some reason for it, had made careful notes of how he felt or what he did, even the course he took when he went for his daily walk, but he had found no pattern. It lay, of course, somewhere in his brain -- something triggered into operation his new capability. But the phenomenon was random and involuntary. He had no control of it, no conscious control, at least. At times he had tried to use it, to bring the geologic shift about -- in each case had failed. Either he did not know how to go about it or it was truly random. Today, he hoped, his capability would not exercise its option, for he wanted to walk in the hills when they had assumed one of their most attractive moods, filled with gentle melancholy, all their harshness softened by the grayness of the atmosphere, the trees standing silently like old and patient friends waiting for one's coming, the fallenleaves and forest mold so hushed footfalls made no sound. He went down to the head of the hollow and sat on a fallen log beside a gushing spring that sent a stream of water tinkling down the boulder-strewn creek bed. Here, in May, in the pool below the spring, the marsh marigolds had bloomed and the sloping hillsides had been covered with the pastel of hepaticas. But now he saw no sign of either. The woods had battened down for winter. The summer and the autumn plants were either dead or dying, the drifting leaves interlocking on the forest floor to form cover against the ice and snow. In this place, thought Daniels, a man walked with a season's ghosts. This was the way it had been for a of years, in a time long gone, these hills and all the world had basked in an eternal summertime. And perhaps not a great deal more than ten thousand years before a milehigh wall of ice had reared up not too far to the north, perhaps close enough for a man who stood where his house now sat might have seen the faint line of blueness that would have been the top of that glacial barrier. But even then, although the mean temperature would have been lower, there had still been seasons. Leaving the log, Daniels went on down the hollow, following the narrow path that looped along the hillside, a cowpath beaten down at a time when there had been more cows at pasture in these woods than the two that Daniels owned. Following it, Daniels noted, as he had many times before, the excellent engineering sense of a cow. Cows always chose the easiest grade in stamping out their paths. He stopped barely beyond the huge white oak that stood at a bend in the path, to have a look at the outsize jack-in-the-pulpit plant he had observed throughout the year. Its green-purple hood had withered away completely, leaving only the scarlet fruit cluster which in the bitter months ahead would serve as food for birds. As the path continued, it plunged deeper between the hills and here the silence deepened and the grayness thickened until one's world became private. There, across the stream bed, was the den. Its yellow maw gaped beneath a crippled, twisted cedar. There, in the spring, he had watched baby foxes play. From far down the hollow came the distant quacking of ducks upon the pond in the river valley. And up on the steep hillside loomed Cat Den Point, the den carved by slowworking wind and weather out of the sheer rock of the cliff. But something was wrong. looking up the hill, he could sense the wrongness, although he could not at first tell exactly what it was. More of the cliff face was visible and something was missing. Suddenly he knew that the tree was no longer there -- the tree that for years had been climbed by homing wildcats heading for the den after a night of prowling and later by humans like himself who wished to seek out the wildcat's den. The cats, of course, were no longer there -- had not been there for many years. In the pioneer days they had been hunted almost to extermination because at times they had exhibited the poor judgment of bringing down a lamb. But the evidence of their occupancy of the cave could still be found by anyone who looked. Far back in the narrow recesses of the shallow cave tiny bones and the fragmented skulls of small mammals gave notice of food brought home by the wildcats for their young. The tree had been old and gnarled and had stood, perhaps, for several centuries and there would have been no sense of anyone's cutting it down, for it had no value as lumber, twisted as it was.'And in any case to get it out of the woods would have been impossible. Yet, last night, when he had stepped out on the porch, he had seemed to hear in a lull in the wind the sound of chopping -- and today the tree was gone. Unbelieving, he scrambled up the slope as swiftly as he could. In places the slope of the wild hillside slanted at an angle so close to # . IF forty-five degrees that he went on hands and knees, clawing himself upward, driven by an illogical fear that had to do with more than simply a missing tree. For it was in the cat den that one could hear the creature buried in the stone. He could recall the day he first had heard the creature and on that day he had not believed his senses. For he had been sure the sound came from his own imagination, was born of his walking with the dinosaurs and eavesdropping on the stars. It had not come the first time he had climbed the tree to reach the cave-that-was-a-den. He had been there several times before, finding a perverse satisfaction at discovering so unlikely a retreat. He would sit on the ledge that ran before the cave and stare over the froth of treetop foliage that clothed the plunging hillside, but afforded a glimpse of the pond that lay in the flood plain of the river. He could not see the river itself -- one must stand on higher ground to see the river. He liked the cave and the ledge because it gave him seclusion, a place cut off from the world, where he still might see this restricted corner of the world but no one could see him. This same sense of being shut out from the world had appealed to the wildcats, he had told himself. And here, for them, not only was seclusion but safety -- and especially safety for their young. There was no way the den could be approached other than by climbing the tree. He had first heard the creature when he had crawled into the deepest part of the shallow cave to marvel at the little heaps of bones and small shattered skulls where the wildcat kittens, perhaps a century before, had crouched and snarled at feast. Crouching where the baby wildcats once had crouched, he had felt the presence welling up at him, coming up to him from the depth of stone that lay far beneath him. Only the presence at first, only the knowing that something was down there. He had been skeptical at first, later on believing. In time belief had become solid certainty. He could record no words, of course, for he had never heard any actual sound. But the intelligence and the knowing came creeping through his body, through his fingers spread flat upon the stone floor of the cave, through his knees, which also pressed the stone. He absorbed it without hearing and the more he absorbed the more he was convinced that deep in the limestone, buried in one of the strata, an intelligence was trapped. And finally the time came when he could catch fragments of thoughts -- the edges of the living in the sentience encysted in the rock. What he heard he did not understand. This very lack of understanding was significant. If he had understood he would have put his discovery down to his imagination. As matters stood he had no knowledge that could possibly have served as a spring-board to imagine the thing of which he was made aware. He caught an awareness of tangled life relationships which made no sense at all -- none of which could be understood, but which lay in tiny, tangled fragments of outrageous (yet simple) information no human mind could quite accept. And he was made to know the empty hollowness of distances so vast that the mind reeled at the very hint of them and of the naked emptiness in which those distances must lie. Even in his eavesdropping on the stars he had never experienced such devastating concepts of the other-where-andwhen. There was other information, scraps and bits he sensed faintly that might fit into mankind's knowledge. But he never found enough to discover the proper slots for their insertion into the mass of mankind's knowledge. The greater part of what he sensed, however, was simply beyond his grasp and perhaps beyond the grasp of any human. But even so his mind would catch and hold it in all its incomprehensibility and it would lie there festering amid his human thoughts. not trying to talk with him -- undoubtedly they (or it) did not know that such a thing as a man existed, let alone himself. But whether the creature (or creatures -- he found the collective singular easier) simply was thinking or might, in its loneliness, be talking to itself -- or whether it might be trying to communicate with something other than himself, he could not determine. Thinking about it, sitting on the ledge before the cave, he had tried to make some logic of his find, had tried to find a way in which the creature's presence might be best explained. And while he could not be sure of it -- in fact, had no data whatsoever to bolster his belief -- he came to think that in some far geologic day when a shallow sea had lain upon this land, a ship from space had fallen into the sea to be buried deeply in the mud that in later millennia had hardened into limestone. In this manner the ship had become entrapped and so remained to this very day. He realized his reasoning held flaws -- for one thing, the pressure involved in the fashioning of the stone must have been so great as to have crushed and flattened any ship unless it should be made of some material far beyond the range of man's technology. Accident, he wondered, or a way of hiding? Trapped or planned? He had no way of knowing and further speculation was ridiculous, based as it necessarily must be upon earlier assumptions that were entirely without support. Scrambling up the hillside, he finally reached the point where he could see that, in all truth, the tree had been cut down. It had fallen downhill and slid for thirty feet or so before it came to rest, its branches entangled with the trunks of other trees which had slowed its plunge. The stump stood raw, the whiteness of its wood shining in the grayness of the day. A deep cut had been made in the downhill side of it and the final felling had been accomplished by a saw. Little piles of brownish sawdust lay beside the stump. A two-man saw, he thought. From where Daniels stood the hill slanted down at an abrupt angle but just ahead of him, just beyond the stump, was a curious mound that broke the hillside slope. In some earlier day, more than likely, great masses of stone had broken from th cliff face and piled up at its base, to be masked in time by the soil that came about from the forest litter. Atop the mound grew a clump of birch, their powdery white trunks looking like huddled ghosts against the darkness of the other trees. The cutting of the tree, he told himself once again, had been a senseless pieces of business. The tree was worthless and had served no particular purpose except as a road to reach the den. Had someone, he wondered, known that he used it to reach the den and cut it IF out of malice? Or had someone, perhaps, hidden something in the cave and then cut down the tree so there would be no way in which to reach it? But who would hold him so much malice as to come out on a night raging with wind, working by lantern light, risking his life, to cut down the tree? Ben Adams? Ben was sore because Daniels would not permit hunting on his land but surely that was no sufficient reason for this rather laborious piece of petty spite. The other alternative -- that something hidden in the cave had caused the tree's destruction -- seemed more likely, although the very cutting of the tree would serve to advertise the strangeness of the place. Daniels stood puzzled, shaking his head. Then he thought of a way to find out some answers. The day still was young and he had nothing else to do. He started climbing up the hill, heading for his barn to pick up some rope. IV cave. It was exactly as it had been before. A few autumn leaves had blown into the farcorners. Chips of weathered stone had fallen from the rocky overhang, tiny evidences of the endless process of erosion which had formed the cave and in a few thousand years from now might wipe it out. Standing on the narrow ledge in front of the cave, Daniels stared out across the valley and was surprised at the change of view that had resulted from the cutting of the tree. The angles of vision seemed somehow different and the hillside itself seemed changed. Startled, he examined the sweep of the slope closely and finally satisfied himself that all that had changed was his way of seeing it. He was seeing trees and contours that earlier had been masked. His rope hung from the outcurving rock face that formed the roof of the cave. It was swaying gently in the wind and, watching it, Daniels recalled that earlier in the day he had felt no wind. But now one had sprang up from the west. Below him the treetops were bending to it. He turned toward the west and felt the wind on his face and a breath of chill. The feel of the wind faintly disturbed him, rousing some atavistic warning that came down from the days when naked, roaming bands of protomen had turned, as he turned now, to sniff the coming weather. The wind might mean that a change of weather could be coming and perhaps he should clamber up the rope and head back for the farm. But he felt a strange reluctance to leave. It had been often so, he recalled. For here was a wild sort of refuge which barred out the world and the little world that it let in was a different kind -- a more primal and more basic and less complicated world than the one he'd fled from. A flight of mallards came winging up from the pond in the river valley, arrowing above the treetops, banking and slanting up the long curve of the bluff and then, having cleared the bluff top, wheeling gracefully back toward the river. He watched them until they dipped down behind the trees that fringed the unseen river. Now it was time to go. There was no use of waiting longer. It had been a fool's errand in the first place; he had been wrong to let himself think something might be hidden in the cave. He turned back to the rope and the rope was gone. For a moment he stared stupidly at the point along the cliff face where the rope had hung, swaying in the breeze. Then he searched for some sign of it, although there was little area to search. The rope could have slid, perhaps, for a short distance along the edge of the overhanging mass of rock but it seemed incredible that it could have slid far enough to have vanished from his sight. The rope was new, strong, and he had tied it securely to the oak tree on the bluff above the cliff, snugging it tightly around the trunk and testing the'knot to make certain that it would not slip. And now the rope was gone. There had to be a human hand in this. Someone had come along, seen the rope and quietly drawn it up and now was crouched on the bluff above him, waiting for his frightened outburst when he found himself stranded. It was the sort of crude practical joke that any numr ber of people in the community might believe to be the height of humor. The thing to do, of course, was to pay no attention, to remain quiet and wait until the joke would pall upon the jokester. So he hunkered down upon the ledge and waited. Ten minutes, he told himself, or at least fifteen, would wear out the patience of the jokester. Then the rope would come down and he could climb up and go back to the house. Depending upon who the joker might turn out to be, he'd take him home and pour a drink for him and the two of them, sitting in the kitchen, would have a laugh together. He found that he was hunching his shoulders against the wind, which seemed to have a sharper bite than when he first had noticed it. It was shifting from the west to north and that was no good. Squatting on the ledge, he noticed that beads of moisture had gathered upon his jacket sleeve -- not a result of rain, exactly, but of driven mist. If the temperature should drop a bit the weather might turn nasty. IF He waited, huddled, listening for a sound -- a scuffling of feet through leaves, the snap of broken brush -- that would betray the presence of someone on the clifftop. But there was no sound at all. The day was muffled. Even the branches of the trees beneath his perch, swaying in the wind, swayed without their usual creaks and groans. Fifteen minutes must have passed and there had been no sound from atop the cliff. The wind had increased somewhat and when he twisted his head to one side to try to look up he could feel the soft slash of the driving mist against his cheek. He could keep silent no longer in hope of waiting out the jokester. He sensed, in a sudden surge of panic, that time was running out on him. "Hey, up there -- " he shouted. He waited and there was no response. He shouted again, more loudly this time. Ordinarily the cliff acrpss the hollow should have bounced back echoes. But now there were no echoes and his shout seemed dampened, as if this wild place had erected some sort of fence to hem him in. He shouted again and the misty world took his voice and swallowed it. A hissing sound started. Daniels saw it was caused by tiny pellets of ice streaming through the branches of the trees. From one breath to another the driven mist had turned to ice. He walked back and forth on the ledge in front of the cave, twenty feet at most, looking for some way of escape. The ledge went out into space and then sheered off. The slanting projection of rock came down from above. He was neatly trapped. He moved back into the cave and hunkered down. Here he was protected from the wind and he felt, even through his rising panic, a certain sense of snugness. The cave was not yet cold. But the temperature must be dopping and dropping rather swiftly or the mist would not have turned to ice. He wore a light jacket and could not make a fire. He did not smoke and never carried matches. F OR the first time he faced the real seriousness of his position. It might be days before anyone noticed he was missing. He had few visitors and no one had ever paid too much attention to him. Even if someone should find that he was missing and a hunt for him were launched, what were the chances that he would be found? Who would think to look in this hidden cave? How long, he wondered, could a man survive in cold and hunger. If he could not get out of here, and soon, what about his livestock? The cows would be heading home from pasture, seeking shelter from the storm and there would be no one there to let them into the barn. If they were not milked for a day or two they would be tormented by swollen udders. The hogs and chickens would go unfed. A man, he thought, had no right to take the kind of chance he had taken when so many living creatures were dependent on him. He crawled farther back into the cave and stretched himself out on his belly, wedging himself into its deepest recess, an ear laid against the stone. The creature still was there -- of course it still was there. It was trapped even more securely than himself, held down by, perhaps, several hundred feet of solid rock, which had been built up most deof years. It was remembering again. In its mind was another place and, while part of that flow of memory was blurred and wavy, the rest was starkly clear. A great dark plain of rock, one great slab of rock, ran to a far horizon and above that far horizon a reddish sun came up and limned against the great red ball of rising sun was a hinted structure -- an irregularity of the horizon that suggested a place. A castle, perhaps, or a city or a great cliff dwelling -- it was hard to make out what it was or to be absolutely sure that it was anything at all. Home? Was that black expanse of rock the spaceport of the old home planet? Or might it be only a place the creature had visited before it had come to Earth?  place so fantastic, perhaps, that it lingered in the mind. Other things mixed into the memory, sensory symbols that might have applied to personalities, life forms, smells, tastes. Although he could be wrong, Daniels knew, in supplying this entrapped creature with human sensory perceptions, these human sensory perceptions were the only ones he knew about. And now, listening in on the memory of that flat black expanse of rock and imagining the rising sun which outlined the structure on the far horizon, Daniels did something he had never tried to do before. He tried to talk back to the buried creature, tried to let it know that someone was listening and had heard, that it was not as lonely and as isolated as it might have thought it was. He did not talk with his tongue -- that would have been a senseless thing to do. Sound could never carry through those many feet of stone. He talked with his mind instead. Hello,  down there, he said. This is a friend of yours. I've been listening to you for a long, long time and I hope that you can hear me. If you can, let us talk together. Let me try to make you under IF stand about myself and the world  live in and you tell me about yourself and the kind of world you lived in and how you came to be where you are and if there is anything l can do for you, any help that I can give... He said that much and no more. Having spoken, he continued lying with his ear against the bard cave floor, listening to find out if the creature might have heard him. But the creature apparently had not heard or, having heard, ignored him as something not worth its attention. It went on thinking about the place where the dull red sun was rising above the horizon. It had been foolish, and perhaps presumptuous, he knew, for him to have tried to speak to it. He had never tried before; he had simply listened. And he had never tried,, either, to speak to those others who talked among the stars -- again he'd simply listened. What new dimension had been added to himself, he wondered, that would have permitted him to try to communicate with the creature? Had the possibility that he was about to die moved him? The creature in the stone might not be subject to death -- it might be immortal. He crawled out of the far recess of the cave and crept out to where he had room to hunker down. T HE storm had worsened. The ice now was mixed with snow and the temperature had fallen. The ledge in front of the cave was filmed with slippery ice. If a man tried to walk it he'd go plunging down the cliff face to his death. The wind was blowing harder. The branches of the trees were waving and a storm of leaves was banking down the hillside, flying with the ice and snow. From where he squatted he could see the topmost branches of the clump of birches which grew atop the mound just beyond where the cave tree had stood. And these branches, it seemed to him, were waving about far more violently than could be accounted for by wind. They were lashing wildly from one side to the other and even as he watched they seemed to rise higher in the air, as if the trees, in some great agony, were raising their branches far above their heads in a plea for mercy. Daniels crept forward on his hands and knees and thrust his head out to see down to the base of the cliff. Not only the topmost branches of the clump of birches were swaying but the entire clump seemed to be motion, thrashing about as if some unseen hand were attempting to wrench it from the soil. But even as he thought this, he saw that the ground itself was in agitation, heaving up and out. It looked exactly as if someone had taken a time-lapse movie of the development of a frost boil with the film now being run at a normal speed. The ground was heaving up and the clump was heaving with it. A shower of gravel and other debris was flowing down the slope, loosened by the heaving of the ground. A boulder broke away and crashed down the hill, crushing brush and shrubs and leaving hideous scars. Daniels watched in horrified fascination. Was he witnessing, he wondered, some wonderfully speededup geological process? He tried to pinpoint exactly what kind of process it might be. He knew of one that seemed to fit. The mound kept on heaving upward, splintering outward from its center. A great flood of loose debris was now pouring down the slope, leaving a path of brown in the whitness of the fallen snow. The clump of birch tipped over and went skidding down the slope and out of the place where it had stood a shape emerged. Not a solid shape, but a hazy one that looked as if someone had scraped some stardust from the sky and molded it into a ragged, shifting form that did not set into any definite pattern, that kept shifting and changing, although it did not entirely lose all resemblance to the shape in which it might originally have been molded. It looked as a loose conglomeration of atoms might look if atoms could be seen. It sparkled softly in the grayness of the day and despite its seeming insubstantiality it apparently had some strength -- for it continued to push itself from the shattered mound until finally it stood free of it. Having freed itself, it drifted up toward the ledge. Strangely, Daniels felt no fear, only a vast curiosity. He tried to make out what the drifting shape was but he could not be sure. A S IT reached the ledge and moved slightly above it he drew back to crouch within the cave. The shape drifted in a couple of feet or so and perched on the ledge -- either perched upon it or floated just above it. You spoke, the sparkling shape said to Daniels. It was not a question, nor a statement either, really, and it was not really speaking. It sounded exactly like the talk Daniels had heard when he'd listened to the stars. You spoke to it, said the shape, as if you were a friend (although the word was not friend but some thing else entirely, something warm and friendly ). You offered help to it. Is there help that you can give? That question at least was clear enough. "I don't know," said Daniels. "Not right now, there isn't. But in a hundred years from now, perhaps -- are you hearing me? Do you know what I am saying?" IF You say there can be help , the creature said, but only after time. Please, what is that time? "A hundred years," said Daniels. "When the planet goes around the star one hundred times." One hundred? asked the creature. Daniels held up the fingers of both hands. "Can you see my fingers? The appendages on the tips of my arms?" See? the creature asked. "Sense them. Count them." Yes,  can count them. "They number ten," said Daniels. "Ten times that many of them would be a hundred." It is no great span of time, the creature said. What kind of help by then? "You know genetics? How a creature comes into being, how it knows what kind of thing it is to become, how it grows, how it knows how to grow and what to become. The amino acids that make up the ribonucleic acids and provide the key to the kind of cells it grows and. what their functions are." I do not know your terms, the creature said, but I understand. So you know of this? You are not , then, a brute wild creature, like the other life that simply stands and the others that burrow in the ground and climb the standing life forms and run along the ground. It did not come out like this, of course. The words were there -- or meanings that had the feel of words -- but there were pictures as well of trees, of burrowing mice, of squirrels, of rabbits, of the lurching woodchuck and the running fox. "Not I," said Daniels, "but others of my kind. I know but little of it. There are others who spend all their time in the study of it." The other perched on the ledge and said nothing more. Beyond it the trees whipped in the wind and the snow came whirling down. Daniels huddled back from the ledge, shivered in the cold and wondered if this thing upon the ledge could be hallucination. But as he thought it, the thing began to talk again, although this time it did not seem to be talking to him. It talked, rather, as the creature in the stone had talked, remembering. It communicated, perhaps, something he was not meant to know but Daniels had no way of keeping from knowing. Sentience flowed from the creature and impacted on his mind, else, so that it seemed as if it were he and not this other who was remembering. V less, limitless space, so far from everything, so brutal, so frigid, so uncaring that it numbed the mind, not so much from fear or loneliness, asfrom the realization that in this eternity of space the thing that was himself was dwarfed to an insignificance no yardstick could measure. So far from home, so lost, so directionless -- and yet not entirely directionless, for there was a trace, a scent, a spoor, a knowing that could not be expressed or understood or even guessed at in the framework of humanity; a trace, a scent, a spoor that showed the way, no matter how dimly or how hopelessly, that something else had taken at some other time. And a mindless determination, an unflagging devotion, a primal urgency that drove him on that faint, dim trail, to follow where it might lead, even to the end of time or space, or the both of them together, never to fail or quit or falter until the trail had finally reached an end or had been wiped out by whatever winds might blow through empty space. There was something here, Daniels told himself, that, for all its alienness, still was familiar, a factor that should lend itself to translation into human terms and thus establish some sort of link between this remembering alien mind and his human mind. The emptiness and the silence, the cold uncaring went on and on and on and there seemed no end to it. But he came to understand there had to be an end to it and that the end was here, in these tangled hills above the ancient river. And after the almost endless time of darkness and uncaring, another almost endless time of waiting, of having reached the end, of having gone as far as one might go and then settling downto wait with an ageless patience that never would grow weary. You spoke of help, the creature said to him. Why help? You do not know this other. Why should you want to help ? "It is alive," said Daniels. "It's alive and I'm alive and is that not enough?" I do not know, the creature said. "I think it is," said Daniels. And how could you help? "I've told you about this business of genetics. I don't know if I can explain -- "  have the terms from your mind , the creature said. The genetic code. "Would this other one, the one beneath the stone, the one you guard -- " Not guard , the creature said. The one I wait for. "You will wait for long." I am equipped for waiting. I have waited long. I can wait much longer. "Someday," Daniels said, "the stone will erode away. But you need not wait that long. Does this other creature know its genetic code?" It knows, the creature said. It knows far more than I. IF "But all of it," insisted Daniels. "Down to the last linkage, the final ingredient, the sequences of all It knows, the creature said. The first requisite of all life is to understand itself. "And it could -- it would -- be to supply us its genetic code?" You are presumptuous, said the sparkling creature, (although the word was harsher than presumptuous). That is information no thing gives another. It is indecent and obscene (here again the words were not exactly indecent and obscene). It involves the giving of one's self into another's hands. It is an ultimate and purposeless surrender. "Not surrender," Daniels said. "A way of escaping from its imprisonment. In time, in the hundred years of which I told you, the people of my race could take that genetic code and construct another creature exactly like the first. Duplicate it with exact preciseness." But it still would be in stone. "Only one of it. The original one. That original could wait for the erosion of the rock. But the other one, its duplicate, could take up life again." And what, Daniels wondered, if the creature in the stone did not wish for rescue? What if it had deliberately placed itself beneath the stone? What if it simply sought protection and sanctuary? Perhaps, if it wished, the creature could get out of where it was as easily as this other one -- or this other thing -- had risen from the mound. No, it cannot, said the creature squatting on the ledge. I was careless. I went to sleep while waiting and I slept too long. And that would have been a long sleep, Daniels told himself. A sleep so long that dribbling soil had mounded over it, that fallen boulders, cracked off the cliff by frost, had been buried in the soil and that a clump of birch had sprouted and grown into trees thirty feet high. There was a difference here in time rate that he could not comprehend. But some of the rest, he told himself, he had sensed -- the devoted loyalty and the mindless patience of the creature that tracked another far among the stars. He knew he was right, for the mind of that other thing, that devoted stardog perched upon the ledge, came into him and fastened on his mind and for a moment the two of them, the two minds, for all their differences, merged into a single mind in a gesture of fellowship and basic understanding, as if for the first time in what must have been millions of years this baying hound from outer space had found a creature that could understand its duty and its purpose. "We could try to dig it out," said Daniels. "I had thought of that, of course, but I was afraid that it would be injured. And it would be hard to convince any  one -- No, said the creature, digging would not do. There is much you do not understand. But this other  proposal that you have, that has great merit. You say you do not have the knowledge oj genetics to take this action now. Have you talked to others oj your kind? "I talked to one," said Daniels, "and he would not listen. He thought I was mad: But he was not, after all, the man I should have spoken to. In time I could talk with others but not right now. No matter how much I might want to -- I can't. For they would laugh at me and I could not stand their laughter. But jn a hundred years or somewhat less I could -- " But you will not exist a hundred years, said the faithful dog. You are a short-lived species. Which might explain your rapid rise. All life here is short-lived and that gives evolution a chance to build intelligence. When I first came here I found but mindless entities. "You are right," said Daniels. "I can live no hundred years. Even from the very start, I could not live a hundred years and better than half of my life is gone. Perhaps much more than half of it. For unless I can get out of this cave I will be dead in days." Reach out, said the sparkling one. Reach out and touch me, being. Slowly Daniels reached out. His hand went through the sparkle and the shine and he had no sense of matter -- it was as if he'd moved his hand through nothing but air. You see, the creature said, I cannot help you. There is no way for our energies to interact. I am sorry, friend. (It was not friend, exactly, but it was good enough, and it might have been, Daniels thought, a great deal more than friend.) "I am sorry, too," said Daniels. "I would like to live." soft and brooding silence of a snow-laden afternoon with nothing but the trees and the rock and the hidden little life to share the silence with them. It had been for nothing, then, Daniels told himself, this meeting with a creature from another world. Unless he could somehow get off this ledge there was nothing he could do. Although why he should so concern himself with the rescue of the creature in the stone he could not understand. Surely whether he himself lived or died should be of more importance to him than that his death would foreclose any chance of help to the buried alien. "But it may not be for nothing," IF he told the sparkling creature. "Now that you know -- " My knowing, said the creature, will have no effect. There are others from the stars who would have the knowledge -- but even if I could contact them they would pay no attention to me. My position is too lowly to converse with the greater ones. My only hope would be people of your kind and, if Tm not mistaken, only with yourself. For I catch the edge of thought that you are the only one who really understands. There is no other of your race who could even be aware of me. Daniels nodded. It was entirely true. No other human existed whose brain had been jumbled so fortunately as to have acquired the abilities he held. He was the only hope for the creature in the stone and even such hope as he represented might be very slight, for before it could be made effective he must find someone who would listen and believe. And that belief must reach across the years to a time when genetic engineering was considerably advanced beyond its present state. If you could manage to survive the present crisis, said the hound from outer space, I might bring to bear certain energies and techniques -- sufficiently for the project to be carried through. But, as you must realize, I cannot supply the means to survive this crisis. "Someone may come along," said Daniels. "They might hear me if I yelled every now and then." He began yelling every now and then and received no answer. His yells were muffled by the storm and it was unlikely, he knew, that there would be men abroad at a time like this. They'd be safe beside their fires. The sparkling creature still perched upon the ledge when Daniels slumped back to rest. The other made an indefinite sort of shape that seemed much like a lopsided Christmas tree standing in the snow. Daniels told himself not to go to sleep. He must close his eyes only for a moment, then snap them open -- he must not let them stay shut for then sleep would come upon him. He should beat his arms across his chest for warmth -- but his arms were heavy and did not want to work. He felt himself sliding prone to the cave floor and fought to drive himself erect. But his will to fight was thin and # the rock was comfortable. So comfortable, he thought, that he could afford a moment's rest before forcing himself erect. And the funny thing about it was that the cave floor had turned to mud and water and the sun was shining and he seemed warm again. He rose with a start and he saw that he was standing in a wide expanse of water no deeper than his ankles, black ooze underfoot. in which the cave might be. There was simply this vast sheet of water and behind him, less than thirty feet away, the muddy beach of a tiny island -- a muddy, rocky island, with smears of sickly green clinging to the rocks. He was in another time, he knew, but not in another place. Always when he slipped through time he came to rest on exactly the same spot upon the surface of the earth that he had occupied when the change had come. And standing there he wondered once again, as he had many times before, what strange mechanism operated to shift him bodily in space so that when he was transported to a time other than his own he did not find himself buried under, say, twenty feet of rock or soil or suspended twenty feet above the surface. But now, he knew, was no time to think or wonder. By a strange quirk of circumstance he was no longer in the cave and it made good sense to get away from where he was as swiftly as he could. For if he stayed standing where he was he might snap back unexpectedly to his present and find himself still huddled in the cave. He turned clumsily about, his feet tangling in the muddy bottom, and lunged toward the shore. The going was hard but he made it and went up the slimy stretch of muddy beach until he could reach the tumbled rocks and could sit and rest. His breathing was difficult. He gulped great lungfuls and the air had a strange taste to it, not like normal air. He sat on the rock, gasping for breath and gazed out across the sheet of water shining in the high, warm sun. Far out he caught sight of a long, humping swell and watched it coming in. When it reached the shore it washed up the muddy incline almost to his feet. Far out on the glassy surface another swell was forming. The sheet of water was greater, he realized, than he had first imagined. This was also the first time in his wanderings through the past that he had ever come upon any large body of water. Always before he had emerged on dry land whose general contours had been recognizable -- and there had always been the river flowing through the hills. Here nothing was recognizable. This was a totally different place and there could be no question that he had been projected farther back in time than ever before -- back to the day of some great epicontinental sea, back to a time, perhaps, when the atmosphere had far less oxygen than it would have in later eons. More than likely, he thought, he was very close in time to that boundary line where life for a creature such as he would be impossible. Here there apparently IF was sufficient oxygen, although a man must pump more air into his lungs than he would normally. Go oxygen might fall to the point where it would be insufficient. Go a little farther back and find no free oxygen at all. Watching the beach, he saw the little things skittering back and forth, seeking refuge in spumewhitened piles of drift or popping into tiny burrows. He put his hand down on the rock on which he sat and scrubbed gently at a patch of green. It slid off the rock and clung to his flesh, smearing his palm with a slimy gellatinous mess that felt disgusting and unclean. Here, then, was the first of life to dwell upon the land -- scarcely creatures as yet, still clinging to the edge of water, afraid and unequipped to wander too far from the side of that wet and gentle mother which, from the first beginning, had nurtured life. Even the plants still clung close to the sea, existing, perhaps, only upon rocky surfaces so close to the beach that occasional spray could reach them. Daniels found that now he did not have to gasp quite so much for breath. Plowing through the mud up to the rock had been exhausting work iji an oxygen-poor atmosphere. But sitting quietly on the rock, he could get along all right. Now that the blood had stopped pounding in his head he became aware of silence. He heard one sound only, the soft lapping of the water against the muddy beach, a lonely effect that seemed to emphasize rather than break the silence. Never before in his life, he realized, had he heard so little sound. Back in the other worlds he had known there had been not one noise, but many, even on the quietest days. But here there was nothing to make a sound -- no trees, no animals, no insects, no birds -- just the water running to the far horizon and the bright sun in the sky. For the first time in many months he knew again that sense of out-of-placeness, of not belonging, the feeling of being where he was not wanted and had no right to be, an intruder in a world that was out of bounds, not for him alone but for anything that was more complex or more sophisticated than the little skitterers on the beach. He sat beneath the alien sun, surrounded by the alien water, watching the little things that in eons yet to come would give rise to such creatures as himself, and tried to feel some sort of kinship to the skitterers. But he could feel no kinship. A ND suddenly in this place of one-sound-only there came a throbbing, faint but clear and presently louder, pressing down against the water, beating at the little island -- a sound out of the sky. Daniels leaped to his feet and looked up and the ship was there, plummeting down toward him. But not a ship of solid form, it seemed -- rather a distorted thing, as if many planes of light (if there could be such things as planes of light) had been slapped together in a haphazard sort of way. A throbbing came from it that set the atmosphere to howling and the planes of light kept changing shape or changing places, so that the ship, from one moment to the next, never looked the same. It had been dropping fast to start with but now it was slowing down as it continued to fall, ponderously and with massive deliberation, straight toward the island. Daniels found himself crouching, unable to jerk his eyes and senses away from this mass of light and thunder that came out of the sky. The sea and mud and rock, even in the full light of the sun, were flickering with the flashing that came from the shifting of the planes of light. Watching it through eyes squinted against the flashes, Daniels saw that if the ship were to drop to the surface it would not drop upon the island, as he first had feared, but a hundred feet or so offshore. Not more than fifty feet above the water the great ship stopped and hovered and a bright thing came from it. The object hit the water with a splash but did not go under, coming to rest upon the shallow, muddy bottom of the sea, with a bit less than half of it above the surface. It was a sphere, a bright and shiny globe against which the water lapped, and even with the thunder of the ship beating at his ears, Daniels imagined he could hear the water lapping at the sphere. Then a voice spoke above this empty world, above the throbbing of the ship, the imagined lapping sound of water, a sad, judicial voice -- although it could not have been a voice, for any voice would have been too puny to be heard. But the words were there and there was no doubt of what they said: Thus, according to the verdict and the sentence, you are here deported and abandoned upon this barren planet, where it is most devoutly hoped you will find the time and opportunity to contemplate your sins and especially the sin of (and here were words and concepts Daniels could not understand, hearing them only as a blur of sound -- but the sound of them, or something in the sound of them, was such as to turn his blood to ice and at the same time fill him with a disgust and a loathing such as he'd never known before). It is regrettable, perhaps, that you are immune to death, for much as we might detest ourselves for doing it, IF it would be a kinder course to discontinue you and would serve better than this course to exact our purpose, which is to place you beyond all possibility of ever having contact with any sort of life again . Here, beyond the farthest track of galactic intercourse, on this uncharted planet, we can only hope jhat our purpose will be served. And we urge upon you such selfexamination that if, by some remote chance, in some unguessed time, you should be freed through ignorance or malice, you shall find it within yourself so to conduct your existence as not to meet or merit such fare again. And now , according to our law, you may speak any final words you wish. The voice ceased and after a while came another. And while the terminology was somewhat more involved than Daniels could grasp their idiom translated easily into human terms. Go screw yourself , it said. The throbbing deepened and the ship began to move straight up into the sky. Daniels watched it until the thunder died and the ship itself was a fading twinkle in the blue. He rose from his crouch and stood erect, trembling and weak. Groping behind him for the rock, he found it and sat down again. Once again the only sound was the lapping of the water on the shore. He could not hear, as he had imagined that he could, the water against the shining sphere that lay a hundred feet offshore. The sun blazed down out of the sky and glinted on the sphere and Daniels found that once again he was gasping for his breath. Without a doubt, out there in the shallow water, on the mudbank that sloped up to the island, lay the creature in the stone. And how then had it been possible for him to be transported across the this one microsecond of time that held the answer to all the questions he had asked about the intelligence beneath the limestone? It could not have been sheer coincidence, for this was coincidence of too large an order ever to come about. Had he somehow, subconsciously, gained more knowledge than he had been aware of from the twinkling creature that had perched upon the ledge? For a moment, he remembered, their minds had met and mingled -- at that moment had there occurred a transmission of knowledge, unrecognized, buried in some subconscious corner of himself? Or was he witnessing the operation some sort of psychic warning system set up to scare off any future intelligence that might be tempted to liberate this abandoned and marooned being? And what about the twinkling creature? Could some hidden, unguessed good exist in the thing imprisoned in the sphere -- for it to have commanded the loyalty and devotion of the creature on the ledge beyond the slow erosion of geologic ages? The question raised another: What were good and evil? Who was there to judge? The evidence of the twinkling creature was, of course, no evidence at all. No human being was so utterly depraved that he could not hope to find a dog to follow him and guard him even to the death. More to wonder at was what had happened within his own jumbled brain that could send him so unerringly to the moment of a vital happening. What more would he find in it to astonish and confound him? How far along the path to ultimate understanding might it drive him? And what was the purpose of that driving? He sat on the rock and gasped for breath. The sea lay flat and calm beneath the blazing sun, its only motion the long swells running in to break around the sphere and on the beach. The little skittering creatures ran along the mud and he rubbed his palm against his trouser leg, trying to brush off the green and slimy scum. He could wade out, he thought, and have a closer look at the sphere lying in the mud. But it would be a long walk in such an atmosphere and he could not chance it -- for he must be nowhere near the cave up in that distant future when he popped back to his present. Once the excitement of knowing where he was, the sense of out-ofplaceness, had worn off, this tiny mud-flat island was a boring place. There was nothing but the sky and sea and the muddy beach; there was nothing much to look at. It was a place, he thought, where nothing ever happened, or was about to happen once the ship had gone away and the great event had ended. Much was going on, of course, that in future ages would spell out to quite a lot -- but it was mostly happening out of sigh, down at the bottom of this shallow sea. The skittering things, he thought, and the slimy growth upon the rock were hardy, mindless pioneers of this distant day -- awesome to look upon and think about but actually not too interesting. He began drawing aimless patterns in the mud with the toe of one boot. He tried to make a tictac-toe layout but so much mud was clinging to his toe that it didn't quite come out. A ND then, instead of drawing in the mud, he was scraping with his toe in fallen leaves, stiff with frozen sleet and snow. The sun was gone and the scene was dark except for a glow from something in the woods just down the hill from him. Driving sheets of snow swirled into his face and he shivered. He pulled his jacket close about him and began to button it. A man, he thought, could catch his death of cold this way, shifting as quickly as he had shifted from a steaming mudbank to the whiplash chill of a northern blizzard. The yellow glow still persisted on the slope below him and he could hear the sound of human voices. What was going on? He was fairly certain of where he was, a hundred feet or so above the place where the cliff began -- there should be no one down there; there should not be a light. He took a slow step down the hill, then hesitated. He ought not to be going down the hill -- he should be heading straight for home. The cattle would be waiting at the barnyard gate, hunched against the storm, their coats covered with ice and snow, yearning for the warmth and shelter of the barn. The pigs would not have been fed, nor the chickens either. A man owed some consideration to his livestock. But someone was down there, someone with a lantern, almost on the lip of the cliff. If the damn fools didn't watch out, they could slip and go plunging down into a hundred feet of space. Coon hunters more than likely, although this was not the kind of night to be out hunting coon. The coons would all be denned up. But whoever they might be, he should go down and warn them. He was halfway to the lantern, which appeared to be setting on the ground, when someone picked it up and held it high and Daniels saw and recognized the face of the man who held it. Daniels hurried forward. "Sheriff, what are you doing here?" But he had the shamed feeling that he knew, that he should have known from the moment he had seen the light. "Who is there?" the sheriff asked, wheeling swiftly and tilting the lantern so that its rays were thrown in Daniels' direction." "Daniels," he gasped. "Good God, man, where have you been?" "Just walking around," said Daniels weakly. The answer, he knew, was no good at all -- but how could he tell anyone that he had just returned from a trip through time? "Damn it," the sheriff said, disgusted. "We've been hunting you. Ben Adams got scared when he dropped over to your place and you weren't there. He knows how you go walking around in the woods and he was afraid something had happened to you. So he phoned me, and he and his boys began looking for you. We were afraid you had fallen or had been hurt somehow. A man wouldn't last the night in a storm liker this." "Where is Ben now?" asked Daniels. The sheriff gestured down the hill and Daniels saw that two men, IF probably Adams' sons, had a rope snubbed around a tree and that the rope extended down over the cliff. "He's down on the rope," the sheriff said. "Having a look in the cave. He felt somehow you might be in the cave." "He had good reason to -- " Daniels started to say but he had barely begun to speak when the night was rent by a shriek of terror. The shrieking did not stop. It kept on and on. The sheriff thrust the lantern at Daniels and hurried forward. No guts, Daniels thought. A man who could be vicious enough to set up another for death, to trap him in a cave -- but who, when the chips were down, could not go through with it and had to phone the sheriff to provide a witness to his good intentions -- a man like that lacked guts. The shrieks had fallen to moaning. The sheriff hauled on the rope, helped by one of Adams' sons. A man's head and shoulders appeared above the clifftop and the sheriff reached out and hauled him to safety. Ben Adams collapsed on the ground and never stopped his moaning. The sheriff jerked him to his feet. "What's the matter, Ben?" "There's something down there," Adams screamed. "There is something in the cave -- " "Something, damn it? What would it be? A cat? A panther?" "I never seen it. I just knew that it was there. I felt it. It was crouched back inside the cave." "How could anything be in there? Someone cut down the tree. How could anything get into the cave?" "I don't know," howled Adams. "It might have been in there when the tree was cut. It might have been trapped in there." One of the sons was holding Ben erect and the sheriff moved away. The other son was pulling in the rope and neatly coiling it. "Another thing," the sheriff said, "how come you thought Daniels might be in that cave? If the tree was cut down he couldn't have climbed the tree. And he couldn't have used a rope the way you did, for there wasn't any rope. If he had used a rope it would still have been there. I don't know what's going on -- damned if I do. You down messing in that cave and Daniels comes walking out of the woods. I wish someone would tell me. Adams, who had been hobbling forward, saw Daniels for the first time and came to a sudden halt. "Where did you come from?" he demanded. "Here we been wearing out our guts trying to hunt you down and then -- " "Oh, go on home," the sheriff said in a disgusted tone of voice. "There's a fishy smell to this. It's going to take me a little while to get it figured out." Daniels reached out his hand to the son who had finished coiling the rope. "I believe that's my rope," he said. Without protest, taken by surprise, the boy handed it to him. "We'll cut across the woods," said Ben. "Home's closer that way." "Good night, men," the sheriff said. Slowly the sheriff and Daniels climbed the hill. U "you were never out walking in this storm. If you had been you'd have had a whole lot more snow on you than shows. You look like you just stepped from a house." "Maybe I wasn't exactly walking around," Daniels said. "Would you mind telling me where you were? I don't mind doing my duty as I see it but I don't relish being made to look a fool while I'm doing it." "Sheriff, I can't tell you. I'm sorry. I simply cannot tell you." "All right, then. What about the rope?" "It's my rope," said Daniels. "I lost it this afternoon." "And I suppose you can't tell me about that, either." "No, I guess I can't." "You know," the sheriff said, "I've had a lot of trouble with Ben Adams through the years. I'd hate to think I was going to have trouble with you, too." They climbed the hill and walked up to the house. The sheriff's car was parked out on the road. "Would you come in?" asked Daniels. "I could find a drink." The sheriff shook his head. "Some other time," he said. "Maybe soon. You figure there was something in that cave? Or was it just Ben's imagination? He's a flighty sort of critter." "Maybe there wasn't anything," said Daniels, "but if Ben thought there was, what difference does it make? Thinking it might be just as real as if there were something there. All of us, sheriff, live with things walking by our sides no one else can see." The sheriff shot a quick glance at him. "Daniels, what's with you?" he asked. "What is walking by your side or sniffing at your heels? Why did you bury yourself out here in this God-forsaken place? What is going on?" He didn't wait for an answer. He got into his car, started it and headed down the road. Daniels stood in the storm and ish in the murk of flying snow. He shook his head in bewilderment. The sheriff had asked a question and then had not waited for the answer. Perhaps because it was a question to which he did not want an answer. ( Please turn to page # ) IF Apr. #, S.D. # Commissioner, Planetary Zoo Sector #I Sir: Congratulations on your decision to purchase a specimen of the most dangerous animal in the known universe. The Rigellian wombat is without a doubt the most powerful and deadly lifeform yet discovered by man, and as such is an addition of which any zoo may be justly proud. The ability of a wombat to attract visitors is more than ample compensation for the price of purchase, while the benefits that the biologists of your planet may derive from the availability of a live specimen are truly incalculable. In short, you have made an excellent buy. We wish you to remember, however, that we of the Malison Company do feel a great sense of responsibility toward our customers and their patrons. Thus it will be impossible for us to deliver your wombat until we are satisfied that your zoo has the facilities necessary for the proper care and containment of the animal. The required equipment is described in detail in the accompanying enclosures but I would like to discuss it here as well, so that you may be absolutely clear on what is needed for the safety and comfort of your specimen and your guests. The wombat must be completely enclosed in a cage of Dorcas force fields and special care should be taken with the fields in areas where they overlap. Please note that the floor of the cage must be given the same protection as the other parts -- even ten feet of reinforced concrete is no insurance of safety where wombats are concerned, as we of the Malison Company know only too well. The precise power requirements vary from case to case but you will find minimum standards for most applications in the enclosures. These should run a few megawatts, at most. If you wish, you may buy the generators for the Dorcas fields directly from us -- already perfectly adapted for use as wombat cages -- at a price other dealers cannot hope to match. Whether or not you choose to buy from us, our experts are always available for help in assembling and installing the cages. Whatever your arrangements for confining your wombat, as soon as your facilities meet the specifications which, in all good conscience, we feel obliged to set, we will rush you the animal by means of our own specially equipped transport ship. Should you meet with difficulties anywhere in your enterprise our experts are always available for consultation. Remember that since we deal only in wombats, we IF try to think of each sale as a continuing commitment and try to meet any needs our customers might have with prompt, efficient service at fees that are as low as we can make them. Please do not fail to ask us for any help you might need. Sincerely, C. J. Malison President, Malison Wombat Company Sector # July #, S.D. # Commissioner, Planetary Zoo Sector #I Dear Sir: I am delighted to hear that your wombat is proving to be a successful addition to the Morenull Zoo. The reports we have received so far furnish gratifying proof that there is no creature in the cosmos better able to capture the public's imagination than one of our wombats. Your response has helped to assure us that we are doing everything possible for the satisfaction of our customers. As to your complaints about the shipping charges, we find it regrettable that the increased rates were necessary but they were forced upon us by circumstances completely outside our control. Rising operating costs and crew's wages, due mainly to the stricter provisions of the new Lifeform Transport Law, made these increases necessary. If you are in doubt as to the legality of our action please note clause # of your contract. We are quite within our rights on this matter. In any case, the few thousand credits involved are of little consequence when compared with the immense benefits which you are by now enjoying due to your wombat. It has been a pleasure serving you and if there is any further aid we can supply, please let us know. Sincerely, C. J. Malison August #, S. D. # Commissioner, Planetary Zoo Sector #I Sir: In keeping with our policy of continuing service in depth, we are happy to inform you that our research staff has completed its analysis of the available data on the recent wombat escapes on Lurda IV and Denel II. Although the data in such cases are necessarily fragmentary, the analysis does seem to indicate that the containing fields were somewhat underpowered. Our suggested power ratings have been raised accordingly (see enclosures). If you wish to modify your equipment to comply with these new specifications you may buy the necessary hardware directly from us and we will be happy to send you one of our technical experts to help with the modifications. These are only two of the many services which we offer at nominal fees in order that each of our customers may display his wombat with the maximum of safety and convenience. Ever striving to be of service, I remain, Sincerely yours, C. J. Malison September #, S. D. I I # Commissioner, Planetary Zoo Sector #I Sir: Naturally I am quite distressed to hear of the escape of your wombat. The property damage and loss of life are, of course, regrettable and I sympathize with the fact that the whole affair was made no easier to tolerate by the arrival of my last letter the day after the escape. Even so, you have no grounds on which to bring suit against the Malison Company and if you will consult your lawyers you may see fit to withdraw this impulsive action. In any case, we are always ready to help you with the recapture and confinement of your wombat and to that end I recommend that you enlist the aid of our expert capture team. Naturally this should be done at once, before the wombat does any more . damage. Of course, the capture of a wombat on an inhabited planet is a somewhat expensive operation but I am sure you agree that the property and lives that can be saved by prompt action are much more important than mere monetary considerations. Due to the dangers involved in their work the capture team must obviously be paid in advance -- but we are standing ready to dispatch them the instant we receive your check. Good luck -- and if there is anything else we can do to help you out of this difficult situation, please let us know. Sincerely, C. J. Malison P. S. Naturally I do not like to press the point at this time, but the last payment on your Dorcas field generators is overdue, f hope you will attend to this matter as soon as possible. September #, S. D. # Commissioner, Planetary Zoo Sector #I Sir: Perhaps I did not make sufficiently clear the dangers implicit in the continued existence of a free, unhampered wombat on an IF inhabited planet. It is plain, at least, that you have not talked with the beast's caretaker or observed its behavior during feeding month -- else you would not have taken so lightly the suggestion offered in my last letter. Whether to use our capture team is, of course, up to you. But the terms of your refusal and your allegations concerning our motives were impudent and uncalled for. It is worth remembering that if the wombat's next feeding period (coming up in about two months, our records show) arrives before the animal is captured, then sending for the capture team will be very much a preliminary step. That step might best be followed by closing down all of your carpentry schools and birth-control centers, as there will be neither a housing shortage nor population pressure on your planet for some time to come. I hope I make myself perfectly clear. As to the animal's capture, there are several methods, some safer than others. The safest, of course, is to let our professional capture team do the job for you. I cannot understand why you are so adamant in your opposition to this proposal -- but if you have decided not to use all the resources at your disposal there is certainly nothing I can do about it. With reference to other methods of capture, I can only state the facts concerning a few prodecures, with most of which, to be sure, you already are acquainted. Wombats are essentially immune to most of the weapons of the modern military short of nuclear warheads, but a sufficient concentration of conventional firepower will sometimes discourage the animal and make subsequent steps in the capture somewhat easier. Caution must be used, however, since a well-fed and well-treated wombat such as are found in zoos is often very resistant to such methods. The actual capture can sometimes be effected by sandwiching the wombat between the defensive screens of two ships of the line (Mk. IV cruisers, or heavier). I note that your planet does not maintain a navy of its own but perhaps one of your neighboring systems could be prevailed upon to help. If not, we will be happy to sell you enough trimatrocine isomer #, the wombat tranquilizing gas, to spray an area of a hundred square kilometers. This should stop your wombat if all else fails -- but please remember that this is very potent, stable and elusive stuff and as such may be expected to have quite an effect on your planet's water ecology. Be careful with it. Your debt on the Dorcas field generators is still unpaid. Sincerely, C.J. Malison Dec. #, S.D. # Commissioner, Planetary Zoo Sector #I Sir: You treat the Malison Company most unfairly. We agree that the circumstances involving your wombat have been in some ways quite unfortunate but we feel that there is no justification for your violent assaults on our integrity. Your charges that we were "negligent" and "mercenary" are, we feel, especially ill-founded and we hope that you will see fit to retract these harsh words after your temper has subsided. Be assured, however, that even if you persist in your childish efforts to have the government indict us, we will harbor no resentment and will be quite happy to settle out of court for the unpaid balance on the wombat cages which you destroyed along with the wombat. In many ways the destruction of the wombat was the most regrettable event of all, since with a little foresight it could have been entirely avoided. We warned you to make sure that the wombat was in the area to be gassed before dropping the tranquilizer -- but wombats are very tricky creatures and I suppose mistakes will happen. After that fiasco the approach of the wombat's feeding period naturally made the use of nuclear weapons your only choice. Even a zoo and a few evacuated suburbs is a small price to pay for the avoidance of a hungry wombat. But the whole affair would have been so much easier if you had called in our capture team at the beginning. The monetary cost would have been much lower and at least the animal would have been preserved. Also, I am truly sorry that we did not foresee the effect of the tranquilizing gas on the animal life of your planet. You must understand, however, that it was a natural mistake. Those of us who deal exclusively in wombats tend to forget that there are animals besides man that drink water and are not immune to the lethal effects of the chemical. I would like to add that I am relieved to hear that the human situation is not so bad, since the water you import from Lyrantha VI is reportedly of the very highest quality. Finally, let me remind you that we bear no grudges because of your sometimes temperamental behavior and whenever you wish to replace your wombat, remember that we are the most reliable firm in the business. Hoping for more enjoyable business dealings in the near future, I remain, Very sincerely yours, C.J. Malison Malison Wombat Company Sector #  IF IN What color is the heart? A nd what color the mind? S he was nineteen, nondescript, blond, face and body still pudgy with baby fat. But she had the talent. Like no one else, she thought. I'm alone. Words appeared on the paper under her hand: "I live in a silent world where no one can enter or love. There are no locks, doors orJceys. Only an empty forest where I can walk and see the trees, cry and laugh at any cloud, taste the grass and touch the quiet wind." Julie sighed. She took the paper into her hands and slowly ripped it, letting the pieces flutter from the desk. The hot morning and the written words and the act were typical of Julie. But this morning the voice came, after nineteen years of silence. She had not yet heard it. She had taken her usual seat in the back row and neatly spread the spiral notebook in front of her, prepared to watch the shadows of the professor's words. "The French symbolists," intoned the professor, displaying his easy plastic smile, "could discover a strange beauty in seemingly contradictory places. Witness, for example, Baudelaire's 'A Carrion -- ' " The words rumbled meaninglessly in Julie's ears. The pen between her fingers made random scratches across the pad. Go ahead, said her mind. The bored girl let her brain reach out across the still heat of the room to pick up the thought currents beneath the professor's words. christ, i wish that broad in the front row would keep her legs together Julie drew back the probe, involuntarily pressed her knees together and felt the silky rub of her stockinged thighs. I'm blushing, she thought with chagrin, though she knew she wasn't the girl in the professor's mental image. That picture in his head... Nineteen years of mental eavesdropping fell heavily on Julie. I'll never get used to the pain in their minds, she thought. So often they've driven me inside my shield. Nineteen years and Julie had never met another person with the talent she possessed. All the people of the world who talk only through their lips, she thought, and then there's me. hey! heyjulie The voice was in her head. Julie looked up, shocked. in my head The faces of her classmates were glazed in identical boredom. no julie i'm not in your class Confused, Julie sat frozen. Her pen dropped unnoticed to the floor. control god calm now control Julie concentrated, tried to think coherently. you you re not talking to me you're here in my mind IF of course i'm a telepath just like you no! "No!" The boy beside Julie looked at her. The professor hesitated, went on with his lecture. no no no The linked, dark halls of Julie's mind echoed convulsively. Dazed with the shock of encounter, she panicked. Someone was moving slowly through the open field beside her pine forest. Stalking her. someone's reaching into me no get out please get out of my mind calm down julie steady now just take it easy girl i'm not intruding just talking to you yes yes i'm okay The panic faded, replaced by a chaos of confusing sensations.  feel like crying and laughing and screaming all at once you know The terror merged with an alien and gradually overpowering emotion. Unbelieving, Julie recognized it as hope. please i can't control this i'm sorry god the pain my loneliness i thought i was the only one i know Julie's thought was contrite. i'm sorry i was afraid can't think can't concentrate who are you how did you find me. slow down one thing at a time i know it's a shock should have been more cautious shouldn't have barged in like that when i picked up that shout of yours about loneliness but i couldn't help it you're the first i'm glad so happy happy The barrier of ice, long lodged in Julie's mind, had finally begun to melt. my name is ted Julie's mind soared. ted ted that's a beautiful name The clanging of the bell intruded. There was a shuffling of bodies as the students gathered up books, papers, pens, and herded themselves toward the door. Almost instantly Julie was alone in the classroom. so class is over Ted picked up her thought. what now, julie? do you want to meet me? yes god, yes, yes no more loneliness please The pause lengthened unendurably. Then Ted answered and the key of his thought was subdued. no julie i hope not where will i meet you across the mall on the north side i'll be sitting on the steps of the liberal arts building you don't mind if i wait here and let you do the walking question i want to meet you where it's beautiful and it's just that way here i don't mind it's a wonderful morning to walk now The next class was starting to filter into the room as Julie folded her notebook and put the ballpoint pen into her purse. Several students were already seajted and a very tall boy with red hair was standing at the end of Julie's row, looking uneasy. He probably sat in the desk Julie now occupied and wasn't sure how to cope with this unexpected change in his daily routine. Cradling her books in the crook of one arm, Julie stood and smiled at the redhead. He smiled back self-consciously and lowered his eyes. Julie suddenly caught his thought. what a cute girl wish she was in my class Julie smiled at him again as she passed and walked toward the door. Classes had almost finished changing. Julie threaded her way through late students and the others who were leisurely enjoying the spring sun as they wandered back to their dormitories. julie where are you from Ted. marley little town maybe a thousand people about fifty miles south of here are you from georgia too no i'm afraid you've got to brand me a yankee i'm from grand rapids that's michigan you don't sound like a yankee and you don't sound like a southern belle it's strange how accents disappear from thoughts it's really not like words at all no but i think it's ever so much better this way ey -- " She stopped and turned. Martin, tall and bluff in striped sports shirt and immaculate white tennis shoes, smiled down. "Come on," he said. Julie obediently started walking again and he fell into step beside her. "I want to talk to you." "Yes?" He looked down at her. "I want to apologize for the other night. That was a pretty bad scene." "Yes, it was." She didn't want to talk to Martin but she had been taught to be civil. ted do you mind no "I'm not really that way at all. I guess I had a lot to drink -- too much. I was a little higher than I expected to be." Julie nodded. "Well, I guess I wasn't really myself." Julie looked silently down at the sidewalk. "What I mean is," said Martin, "I want to apologize. I mean I want to make it up to you. Do you want to go out to a show and maybe have a few drinks this Saturday night?" The words rushed out. "It won't be like last time at all." Julie looked into Martin's earnIF est face and deliberately skimmed the surface of his conscious thoughts. it better not be like last time this time the bitch better put out or else i'm not about to spend  good cash on tickets and booze just so we can play kissy-jace at the front door of her dorm Julie forced her lips to smile. Martin smiled back gently, affectionately. "Go to hell," said Julie. She reached up, slapped Martin with all the force of her body. She walked away and left him standing dumb and foolish. Compassion and gentle laughter were in Ted's thoughts. good show girl but you should have kneed him right where it hurts he deserved more why he's no worse than others kind words in their mouths while their minds scream hate it isn't always so bad people have good thoughts now and then sometimes they think honest things occasionally they forget about selfishness and lying . like you His thought came buoyed by a vast good humor. i'm no candidate for sainthood but i guess i just try to treat people like i'd like to be treated it's a hokey philosophy but not a bad wish why not wish when i'm wishing i'm not at peace with myself His thought echoed in Julie like a litany. She recognized it and was still savoring it when the next one came. i've never really been at peace otherwise with myself or anybody i used to hate all of them for being what they were for not being able to touch me and i hated myself for hating and now i don't know Something fluttered against Julie's face. She opened her eyes and saw it -- a yellow butterfly, bright-winged and fragile. ted i feel like i've always been blind and now i can see Julie stopped on the sidewalk, turned completely around and eagerly took into herself the lush green lawns, the beds of crimson flowers, the tan stone and ivy-covered college walls and behind them in the air, the white skyline of downtown Atlanta. it's all different now ted not like it was She pirouetted, ecstatically thirsty, and drank the sights and sounds and smells and touches she had dimly known existed outside her. Ted's thought came softly. beautiful Julie saw the beauty of the world and felt the vision melt with Ted's mind in a thousand subtle ways. She took this taste of him, magnified it and she imagined she was a vessel overflowing with Ted's love for life, his sensitivity, his kindness. easy girl careful i don't think you've ever really looked at the world you re getting drunk on reality Julie laughed and was silent. you're beautiful i keep telling you i'm just a simple type with an oversimplified way of life that keeps me relatively happy then i want it too it's easy sometimes all you have to do is open yourself up to the world that's all She sensed a sharpness but disregarded it. i think i love you slow down julie we haven't even met yes we have in the most important way do you suppose our children will inherit our esp talent i really hadn't thought that far ahead i did the first moment i felt the loneliness start to melt julie yes nothing i'm almost there The mall was a broad green meadow, pentagonal, a web of paths linking the buildings at its corners. Julie crossed the center. Ahead was the pseudo-Greek architecture of the Liberal Arts Building where Ted waited. Julie reached the steps and stopped. She looked around. Classes had long since begun again and few students were in sight. A slender Negro sat to her left, beside a stack of worn textbooks. Julie turned ahead and saw a man seated a few steps above her, an athletic type staring back at her through dark glasses. "Ted?" she said tentatively. ted julie over here "Julie." The voice came from her left. Julie turned. "Hello, Julie." His voice was low, a pleasant bass. For an incredibly dilated moment Julie stared at the full lips from which the words had come, the wide dark eyes, the black skin. He spread his hands slightly. does it matter no no of course not But, of course, it did.  IF and Asa hunter he never lost his prey -- merely himself! r T HE continent below him was covered with lush jungle except for the sandy plateau twenty miles in diameter. A moment earlier his  instruments had picked up the other ship sitting near the southern edge of the tableland. The sandy surface of the plateau was fairly regular and Rysling decided to bring his own craft down on automatic, as close to the other ship as possible. He sat back in his contour seat and waited, his senses alert. Was someone else trying to beat him to his job? His small exploratory vessel was now three thousand feet above the plateau and coming down fast on secondary jets. The primary landside jets cut in with a roar at five hundred feet and the sleek vessel settled slowly to the sand. When all had quieted the displaced sand made a crater-like perimeter around the silver hull. Rysling made sure the double safety on tne star-drive was secure, cut in the double safety for the landside rockets. Through his forward screen he saw that the other ship and also both suns were up. The yellow star was high in the dark blue sky, near its noontime. The red giant was near the horizon, just above the green jungle which surrounded the barren plateau. Rysling released the strap from around his waist. He stood up slowly and stretched. Nothing about the other ship was moving. As yet the planet had no name, only a number: #-#-#. The gravity was only slightly higher than Earth normal. The atmosphere was nearly identical in composition to Earth's. For all practical purposes the planet was ready to be colonized. But Earth Authority was picky. It wanted a complete classification of the land animals. That was why hfc was here, to catch the only remaining land animal that had not yet been caught, a catlike, four-footed creature which to date had eluded all efforts of hunters. That was all he had been told. He had been given a flat fee, operating expenses and a time limit of one earth month. Two weeks had already gone by. As he came down the exit ramp, Rysling took a deep breath of the warm, humid air. After two weeks of the clean, sterile ship's air the natural variety smelled awful. He was almost sickened by the thought of micro-organisms suspended all around him. He came to the end of the ramp and the sand was gritty beneath his heavy boots. It felt good, despite the air. He noticed that he was about four hundred feet from the other ship. craft. The yellow sun was warm on his face. The other ship was also an exploratory model, slightly larger than his own. He estimated that it was perhaps two years older. There was a large, IF slightly scarred H on the hull. It might be one of Henderson's ships, he thought, but the fading letter was not conclusive proof. The ramp was down. Rsyling went halfway up the incline. "Is anyone home?" His voice echoed in the open airlock. There was no answer. He walked into the airlock and shouted up the central passageway which led up into the control room. "Hello." Still no answer. Rsyling climbed the ladder into the control room. He looked around at everything carefully. All seemed to be in order -- shut down -- except for the radar and sensor instruments. They continued their watch of the surrounding country. For the moment they had nothing to report. The light above the security switches over the star-drive and rockets glowed a bright green. Everything seemed as it should be. They're all probably outside. I'm sure to run into them sooner or later. He was almost ready to leave when his curiosity got the better of him. He sat down in the captain's station and flicked on the log tape. He listened. For a long time there was nothing. At last, very faintly, he heard heavy breathing, then a voice he didn't recognize. "The greycat, came into my mind. Suddenly I wasn't a man any more but a beast. A hallucination? I don't know -- but I'll be ready for it the next time. Going out now. Time: hell, my watch is broken..." The tape ran on for a long time. Nothing more seemed to be on it. Rysling waited a little longer and switched it off. Apparently the skipper of the ship had not yet come back. He sounded like a man of imagination and easily frightened. Rysling shrugged. He descended to the airlock, walked down the ramp, wandered to the edge of the plateau. Maybe the ship's personnel was down in the jungle. He unsnapped his binoculars and began sweeping the jungle. Some impulse made him look straight down to the base of the cliff. He saw a stretch of white sand -- and then he saw the bones. Two human skeletons lay on the sand, hands pointed to the jungle as if praying. They must have fallen to their deaths somehow. Rysling turned up the magnification of his oculars. At once it seemed he was standing directly over the two skeletons. 'A bug crawled out of one of the skulls and fled across the bright sand into the underbrush. How long did it take for flesh to rot away? Later he would have to go down and try to make identifications, determine what had happened and pack the remains for shipment home. But for now he had a job to do, an animal to net. It was the kind of odd job he often took on between his regular ship runs. A man could always do with a little extra capital. Besides, he liked hunting. Trap a greycat, they had told him. Simple enough with the proper gear. But others had failed. Maybe Earth Authority had hired bunglers. Like the previous owners of the two skeletons below? Their fate really didn't concern him. He would not fail. T HE "hound" was really just a cage which could open any one of its six sides, could track its prey visually and through body heat and strike more swiftly than any living thing could move. Carefully Rysling worked the remote controls and guided it out of the cargo hold and gently down to the sand. He had set up the tripod earlier. It held the screen monitor for the hound's electronic eyes. The remote control panel was just below the screen. In effect he would be the hound, seeing with its eyes and making sure that it did not tangle itself in vegetation -- much of the tracking, however, was automatic and in reality he would only be needed during crucial moments, if they arose. Otherwise he could just sit in front of the monitor and live vicariously what the hound was doing. A routine job. He could not see how anyone could have failed to catch the animal. The beast didn't have a chance. The hound's eyes and heat-sensing device were tied into the ship's computers which had been programed to recognize only this type of living thing. Rysling adjusted the controls for automatic search pattern. The pattern was based on what knowledge the computer had of the greycat. The hound lifted itself from the sand and moved slowly to the edge of the plateau. In a moment it dripped out of sight into the jungle. Rysling sat back in his seat in front of the monitor screen and stretched his legs. In front of him now he could see wide-stemmed plants as the hound-cage pushed them aside. Some smaller plants bore large unopened buds. The tree trunks were massive, and an unfamiliar moss grew over much of their brown surface. The grass in the forest was a foot high, Rysling estimated. He could see great vines passing throught it -- lines of communication between the trees. He felt as if he were the hound, a great and powerful beast moving through the jungle aisles. The heat there was oppressive and moisture fell in great drops from huge leaves. He pushed a button and the hound's eyes looked to the now hidden sky. He could only see the great trunks, standing like titans, guardians of the forest. Rysling turned to look at the other ship. Sunlight was bright on the plateau. The yellow star was edging toward its afternoon. The red giant was partly below the horizon. Atmospheric refraction disIF torted its equatorial region, making the huge star look misshapen and bloated. Rysling no longer believed that anyone would return to the other ship. When he turned again to the screen the hound was motionless. Nothing moved on the monitor except for a leaf touched by the wind. Slowly, silently, the greycat walked into view, thin and muscular, body low to the ground -- the eyes were yellow ovals and looked directly into the screen. Rysling was fascinated by the eyes, they beckoned him, they drew his gaze into themselves. It seemed almost as if the cat were looking directly at him, as if the green-furred beast knew that something else waited behind the hound's mechanical eyes. Rysling bit his lip. His hands hovered over the console, ready to take over in case of difficulty. The hound moved in slowly at first, automatically -- it picked up speed until it was moving about thirty miles an hour. But the greycat was suddenly a blur skimming the grass. The hound followed with deadly accuracy, changing direction with the animal. In a few moments it was directly behind the cat. Both were moving well past fifty miles and hour, Rysling estimated. The front cage door was open. Rysling noticed the red light on the console, informing him of the fact. There was a different colored light for each of the six doors. At any moment now the cat would be scooped up and the door would shut. In front of him Rysling could see the dark streak that ran from the cat's ears to the long tail. The greycat jumped into some brush, turned and snarled at him. In a moment it would all be over, Rysling thought. Then he could go and take care of the two skeletons at the cliff base, go home to collect the rest of his fee. The green vegetation before him was suddenly very vivid. Rysling felt a dizziness. He closed his eyes for a moment. His arms grew heavy and blood pounded in his head. When he opened his eyes the screen was out of focus and the whole world was spinning. He felt as if he were falling , but slowly. And the cool green grass of the forest was all around him , caressing him , inviting him to sleep until his strength returned and he could fight the strange , scentless creature that was chasing him. Rysling looked up at the hound through the greycat s eyes. It was coming toward him. He rose on his hind paws and fell back farther into the thick brush. He tried to swat the cage with his paw. He snarled and fell over backward. He jumped to all fours immediately. And ran. His cat's body ran without him , instinctively , turning , jumping with an exhilarating sureness. He felt the thorn balls cling to his paws. His eyes saw everything -- the forest was a rich orchestration of scents that told him all he needed to know. Rysling turned off the hound's automatic program. He was shaking. Sweat had run down his back. He inhaled a tranquilizer. The hound would come back now but he would send it out again. A hallucination, he thought. It was what the voice on the log tape of the other ship had been talking about. But he had felt pain, fatigue, tasted the pungent scents of the forest, known the sweat and muscles of the swift greycat as he knew his own. And he had known the fear of the cat, running before something it did not understand, could never understand because it was not part of the normal environment. He thought he had part of the picture now. He had been hit by the animal's defense mechanism. Did the cat have telepathic abilities? At any rate, what he had experienced had to be an illusion and he would have to ignore it next time around. Perhaps the cat's strange power dated from some still undiscovered stage of interplanetary evolution when all life forms were still undifferentiated, all awarenesses one -- the single pulse of the natural force. The hound appeared over the edge of the plateau. It skimmed to within six feet of the control console tripod and settled to the ground. Rysling went to it and checked it carefully. Nothing was wrong. He went back to the console and sat down to face the screen. With one flick he turned the automatic track back on. Quickly the hound flew over it. When it reached the spot where it had left the cat it descended again to the jungle floor, its heat residue sensor scanning the ground for the warm trail. The greycat's path led in a wide circle toward the northern cliff wall of the plateau. The hound followed. Apparently the animal was following the cliff wall closely. The hound picked up speed. The greycat came into view on the sand ahead. The hound picked up still more speed. The cat ran, leaving big paw prints in the sand strip that rimmed the base of the plateau. Rysling braced himself for the hallucination. It came like a dream he could recognize as one but he could not break the spell. The cage was open and coming directly for him. The cliff wall was at his back. He had to wait for the moment when he could rush past it into the jungle. For an instant his new body was frozen, as if all its instincts were dead or confused by the precision of an enemy which made so few mistakes, gave so little opportunity to escape. The cage came on until it was directly in front of him. It swallowed him. The bars slid IF shut with a click. Then he heard the small voice whispering in his ear, Youre Rysling -- this is an illusion. It will go away, change. Just wait. But the presence of the jungle was stronger, the backdrop of his new life, the vast and vivid support for his senses, the source of all blessings. He heard it, he smelled it, he saw the vivid, achingly intense colors. Only the bars kept him from it. His own voice was very faint, very far away and of no consequence. A small fly buzzing near his ear. The greycat threw himself at the bars. Stupid, the button, the voice said. Outside the first bar . He slid his paw between the bars and pushed wildly. The side entrance of the cage opened with a half-remembered whirring sound. The jungle beckoned. He ran into the gloom, quietly, swiftly, in one fluid motion unlike the jerky point-to-point movement of his previous life. He could smell the shades of colors -- he sensed the range which before had been only green, brown, or mud-colored. The soft voice told him to go back, regain his former self, break the spell that bound him to a world that man had turned his back on a was a poor, sterile thing compared with the rich, surrounding forest. Still, he would have to go back, if only for a moment. The jungle called to him -- it promised confidently. But instead he ran toward the sandy plateau. The human form that had once been Kurt Rysling stood up from its seat in front of the tripod console. Its movements were jerky. It tried to walk and fell on all fours. The smell of the jungle it had known all its life seemed distant , faded and alien. The colors were pale and the normal sounds of the forest were gone. Its strange new limbs were weak. The greycat tried to growl but only a weak sound came out of its small, human mouth. He crawled nearer the jungle, hoping that all the normal sensations would return. He reached the edge. The urge to jump came suddenly. The greycat leaped from the plateau, its human arms stretched out in front like paws. The small voice still spoke in the greycat's simple brain. Momentarily it became stronger when the cat came to the broken body of Kurt Rysling lying next to the sunbleached skeletons at the bottom of the cliff. The red star had long since set, and the yellow sun was low over the jungle. The cat stood perfectly still in the cliff's shadow, listening. Dimly, from somewhere in the depths of the greycat's nervous system, Rysling understood what had happened to the two skeletons before him. This then was the skipper of the other ship and his companion and what was happening to him had happened to them. He looked at his own corpse with indifference. It was after all a thing and not himself. He felt comfortable and safe. From somewhere his old voice summoned up enough strength to tell him that while he could adapt easily to the cat's nervous system, the greycat had not been able to master the complexities of a human cortex. But, then, did this not mean that the human mind was only a resident of the physio-chemical brain? That in reality it was an epiphenomenon, a matrix of energy which could detach itself from its physical form? It must be so, the small voice said. After all, the iron of a magnet produces something beyond itself, the magnetic field; and the mass of a world produces a gravitational field; and the physio-chemical brain tissue produces a pattern of energies that is the real mind, responsible for all the higher functions. The small voice seemed desperate as it spoke. There would be a price to pay for his new existence -- fading memories, the power of reason, love. But he didn't care. The world was vast and entirely within his grasp. It was a world for him. The smells of the forest wrapped themselves around him. Did he for a moment detect -- a female odor? The image was clear: a sleek female, waiting somewhere for him. The small voice was almost gone now -- he could not understand its meaning or where it had come from. He glanced again at the broken body that lay face down, its neck broken. He looked up to the edge of the plateau. Had he thought of going there? There was no way up. Swiftly he turned and ran into the green shadows. His muscles were strong. In one place the yellow sun cast its light into the jungle aisle, making his fur feel warm. Soon, he knew, it would be night. The small voice was only a background sound,' no stronger than an insect's drone. He stopped and turned to look at the plateau, which from this distance was visible through a break in the trees. He could just barely see the top of one silvery ship. He looked at it, trying to remember what it was but that memory was already gone. The greycat turned again and disappeared into the jungle.  IF At Christopher Inn, # East Broad St., Columbus, Ohio. Guest-of Honor: Anne McCaffrey. Features: Panels, parties, movies, banquet. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Larry Smith, #F Roche Drive, Columbus, Ohio #.  the Statler Hilton, Boston. For information: Anthony Lewis, # Unity Avenue, Belmont, Mass. #.  Hilton Inn, San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests of Honor: Miriam Allen de Ford and E. Hoffman Price. Fan Guest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: # now, # after January #st, # at the door. For information: Quinn Yarbro, # Colusa ##, Berkeley, Calif. #.  At the Royal Hotel, Southampton, England. Guest of Honor: James Blish. Panels, films, lectures, and displays. Scheduled speakers: Raymond Fletcher, Member of Parliament who works closely with the Ministry of Technology; Dr. Kit Pedler, lecturer in Opthalmology and TV script writer; et. al. Most of the British sf writers will be in attendance. For information: don, W.C. #, England. Hotel Dyckman, Minneapolis. Speakers: Clifford D. Simak, Gordon R. Dickson, Charles DeVet, Lin Carter. Membership: #. For information: Steve Popper, # Glenhurst Avenue, St. Louis Park, Minnesota #.  pin, Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: #. For information and registration -- : Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York #.  At the Skirvin Hotel, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Guests: Jim Harmon, R.A. Lafferty. Membership: #. For information: David Smith, # Mercer Street, Ponca City, Oklahoma #I .  California. Guest of Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest of Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California # I .  Chatham Center Motor Lodge, Center Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsly vania. Guest-of-Honor: Harlan Ellison; GoH Emeritus: Robert Silverberg. Features: Panels, parties, movies, banquet. Membership: # in advance; # at the door. For information: Suzanne Tompkins, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #. ( Please turn to page #)  Jorj X. McKie, Saboteur Extraordinary of the Bureau of Sabotage of the Confederated Sentients, is called to the planet of Cordiality on an urgent mission -- a Caleban Beachball has been sighted on the planet. McKie arrives on Cordiality via a jumpdoor -- an instantaneous space-travel medium controlled by the mysterious Calebans -- and is briefed on the emergency by fellow BuSab agent, Alicheno Furuneo. Calebans, sentient members of the Con-Sentients, have lately been disappearing, with disastrous effects on humans and other sentients around them. It is thought that Mlis Abnethe, an enormously wealthy and beautiful but unscrupulous human woman is somehow involved in the disappearances. No one has ever seen a Caleban and few have successfully communicated with one. McKie forces an entry into the Beachball stranded on Cordiality and confronts the Caleban domiciled in it. He succeeds in establishing communication with the Caleban, a pure sentient, who communicates from mind to mind and tells him that Mlis Abnethe is indeed involved in the inexplicable goings on. Mlis is a flagellator , who has acquired a contractual right to have the Caleban whipped for her pleasure -- in return she has promised certain educational advantages for Calebans. McKie witnesses and interrupts one of the flagellations, discovers that the Caleban, who has assumed the name Fanny Mae, has fallen in love with him. McKie, a veteran of fifty-four unsuccessful marriages, is unimpressed, but utilizes the fact that the universality of love permits Fanny Mae to violate her contract with Mliss Abnethe and send him on her trail via a jumpdoor. He emerges on an unfamiliar planet, talking to an uncommunicative rock. He starts walking, receives an interplanetary telepathic call -- actually a sniggertrance seizure -- from his superiors at BuSab. One of Abnethe s whips and knives have been recovered and analyzed as being made of rawhide and steel. Both materials are anachronistic to the time of the events -- their use has been discontinued long ago, and may provide a clue to Abnethe s whereabouts -- McKie is to look into the matter. He does -- and finds himself in a strangely archaic setting, suggestive of a textbook scene from the dark ages of ancient Earth. He sees black men, women and children, grass huts, primitive, twohorned beasts yoked to wagons -- a scene from ancient Africa. The blacks turn out to be Mliss Abnethe's subjects -- he has reached her hideaway without knowing where he is in time and space. While Abnethe reaches out via a jumpdoor to murder Furuneo, who has been left to guard Fanny Mae, the blacks seize McKie and prepare to kill him. With her Pan Spechi aide, Cheo, Abnethe plots the death of Fanny Mae and the end of ConSentients. IF ignited at his death, Taprisiots scanned the Beachball area. They found only the Caleban and four enforcers in hovering guard ships. Reasoning about actions, motives or guilt did not come within the Taprisiot scope. They merely reported the death, its location and the sentients available to their scanners. The four enforcers came in for several days of rough questioning as a result. The Caleban was a different matter. A full BuSab management conference was required before they could decide what action to take about the Caleban. Furuneo's death had come under extremely mysterious circumstances -- no head, unintelligible responses from the Caleban. As Tuluk entered the conference room on a summons that had roused him from sleep, Siker was flailing the table. He was using his middle fighting tendril for the gesture, quite unLaclac in emotional intensity. "We don't act without calling McKie," Siker said. "This is too delicate." Tuluk took his position at the table, leaned into the Wreave support provided for his species, spoke mildly: "Haven't you contacted McKie yet? Furuneo was supposed to have ordered the Caleban -- " That was as far as he got. Explanations and data came at him from several of the others. Presently, Tuluk said: "Where's Furuneo's body?" "Enforcers are bringing it to the lab now." "Have the police been brought in?" "Of course." "Anything on the missing head?" "No sign of it." "Has to be result of a jumpdoor," Tuluk said. "Will the police take over?" "We're not going to allow that. One of our own." Tuluk nodded. "Fm with Siker, then. We don't move without consulting McKie. This case was handed to him when we didn't know its extent. He's still in charge." "Should we reconsider that decision?" someone down the table asked. Tuluk shook his head. "Bad form," he said. "First things first. Furuneo' s dead and he was supposed to have ordered McKie's return some time ago." Bildoon, the Pan Spechi chief of the Bureau, had watched this exchange with attentive silence. He had been ego holder of his pentarchal life group for seventeen years -- a reasonably average time in his species. Although the thought revolted him in a way other species could never really understand, he knew he would have to give up the ego to the youngest member of his creche circle soon. The ego exchange would come sooner than it might have without the strains of command. Terrible price to pay in the service of sentience, he thought. The humanoid appearance his kind had genetically adopted had a tendency to beguile other humanoids into forgetting the essentially alien character of the Pan Spechi. The time would come, though, when they would be unable to avoid alien awareness in Bildoon's case. His friends in the ConSentiency would see the crechechange at its beginning -- the glazing of the eyes, the rictus of mouth. Best not think about that, he warned himself. He needed all his abilities right now. He felt he no longer lived in his ego-self, and this was a sensation of exquisite torture for a Pan Spechi. But the black negation of all sentient life that threatened his universe demanded the sacrifice of personal fears. The Caleban must not be allowed to die. Until he had assured himself of the Caleban's survival, he must cling to any rope life offered him, endure any terror, refuse to mourn for the almost-death-of-self that lurked in Pan Spechi nightmares. A greater death pressed upon them all. Siker, he saw, was staring at him with an unspoken question. Bildoon spoke three words: "Get a Taprisiot." Someone near the door hurried to obey. "Who was most recently in contact with McKie?" Bildoon asked. "I believe I was," Tuluk said. "It'll be easier for you, then," Bildoon said. "Make it short." Tuluk wrinkled his facial slit in agreement. A Taprisiot was led in, was helped up onto the table. It complained that they were being much too rough with its speech needles, that the imbedment was imperfect, that they had not given it sufficient time to prepare its energies. the emergency clause of the Bureau's special contract would it agree to act. It positioned itself in front of Tuluk It said, "Date, time and place." Tuluk gave the local coordinates. "Close face," the Taprisiot ordered. Tuluk obeyed. "Think of contact," the Taprisiot sqeaked. Tuluk thought of McKie. Time passed without contact. Tuluk opened his face, stared out. "Close face," the Taprisiot ordered. Tuluk obeyed. Bildoon asked, "Is something wrong?" "Contact through Caleban change time," the Taprisiot said. "Same as before." "Contact through a Caleban?" Bildoon ventured. "Otherwise not available," the Taprisiot said. "McKie isolated in connectives of another being." "I don't care how you get him, just get him," Bildoon ordered. "Hold silence," the Taprisiot said. "Disturb imbedment." Its speech needles rustled. "Pucha, pucha," it said. "Call go when Caleban permit." Abruptly, Tuluk jerked as the sniggertrance marked pineal ignition. "McKie?" he said. "Tuluk here." IF The words, uttered through the mumbling of the sniggertrance, were barely audible to the others around the table. Speaking as calmly as he could, McKie said, "McKie will not be here in about thirty seconds unless you call Furuneo and have him order that Caleban to free me -- " "What's wrong?" Tuluk asked. "I'm staked out and a Palenki is on its way to kill me. I can see it against the firelight. It's carrying what appears to be an axe. It's going to chop me up. You know how they -- " "I can't call Furuneo. He's..." "Then call the Caleban!" "You know you can't call a Caleban." "Doit, you oaf!" Because McKie had ordered it, suspecting that he might know such a call could be made, Tuluk broke the contact, sent a demand at the Taprisiot. It was against reason -- all the data said Taprisiots could not link sentients and Calebans. To the observers in the conference room the more obvious mumbling and chuckling of the sniggertrance faded, made a brief return, disappeared. Bildoon almost barked a question at Tuluk, hesitated. The Wreave's tubular body remained so -- still. "I wonder why the Tappy said he had to call through a Caleban?" Siker whispered. Bildoon shook his head. A Chither near Tuluk said, "You know, I could swear he ordered the Taprisiot to call the Caleban." "Nonsense," Siker said. "I don't understand it," the Chither said. "How could McKie go somewhere and not know where he is?" "Is Tuluk out of the sniggertrance or isn't he?" Siker asked, his voice fearful. "He acts like nobody's there." Every sentient around the table froze into silence. They all knew what Siker meant. Had the Wreave been trapped in the call? Was Tuluk gone, taken into that strange limbo from which the personality never returned? The assembled sentients jerked back from the conference table as McKie came tumbling out of nowhere in a shower of dust and dirt. He landed flat on his back on the table directly in front of Bildoon, who lifted half out of his chair. McKie's wrists were bloody. His eyes were glazed. His red hair was a tangled, wild mop. "Now," McKie whispered. He turned to his side, saw Bildoon, and as though it explained everything, added: "The axe was descending." "What axe?" Bildoon demanded, sliding back into his chair. "The one the Palenki was aiming at my head." "The -- what?" McKie sat up, massaged his torn wrists where the bindings had held him. Presently he shifted his ministrations to his ankles. He looked like a Gowachin frog deity. "McKie, explain what's going on here," Bildoon ordered. "I -- ahhh -- well, the nick of time was almost a fatal nick too late," McKie said. "What made Furuneo wait so long? He was told six hours, no more. Wasn't he?" McKie looked at Tuluk, who remained silent, stiff as a length of gray pipe against the Wreave support. "Furuneo'sdead," Bildoon said. "Damn," McKie said softly. "How?" Bildoon made the explanation brief, then asked, "Where've you been? What's this about a Palenki with an axe?" McKie, still sitting on the table, gave a neatly abbreviated, chronological report. It sounded as though he were . talking about a third person. He wound it up with a flat statement: "I have no idea at all where I was." "They were going to -- chop you up?" Bildoon asked. "The axe was coming down," McKie said. "It was right there." He held up a hand about six centimeters from his nose." Siker cleared his throat, said, "Something's wrong with Tuluk." They all turned. against the support, his face slit closed. His body was there but he was not. "Is he -- lost?" Bildoon rasped and turned away. If Tuluk failed to come back -- how like the Pan Spechi ego loss that would be! "Somebody down there shake up that Taprisiot," McKie ordered. "Why bother?" That was a human male from the legal department. "They never answer a direct question about -- you know." He glanced uneasily at Bildoon, who remained with face averted. "Tuluk made contact with the Caleban," McKie said, remembering. "I told him -- it's the only way he could have done it with Furuneo dead." He stood up on the table, walked down its length to stand towering over the Taprisiot. "You!" he shouted. "Taprisiot!" Silence. McKie drew a finger along an arm of speech needles. They clattered like a line of wooden clackers but no intelligible sound came from the Taprisiot. "You're not supposed to touch them," someone said. "Get another Taprisiot in here," McKie ordered. Someone ran to obey...McKie mopped his forehead. He required all his reserves to keep from trembling. During the descent of the Palenki axe he had said goodbye to the universe. It had been final, irrevocable. He still felt that he had not returned, that he was watching the antics of some other creature in his own flesh, a familiar creature -- but a stranger, really. This room, the words and actions around him, were some sort of distorted play refined to blind sterility. In the instant when he had accepted his own death he had realized there still remained uncounted experiences he wanted to live through. This room and his duties as a BuSab agent had not IF been among those experiences. The old reality was drowned in selfish memories. Still, this flesh went through the motions. That was what training did. A second Taprisiot was herded into the room, its needles squeaking complaints. It was hoisted onto the table, objecting all the way. "You have Taprisiot! Why you disturb?" Bildoon turned back to the table, studied the scene but remained silent, withdrawn. No one had ever been brought back from the longdistance trap. McKie faced the new Taprisiot. "Can you contact this other Taprisiot?" he demanded. "Pucha, pucha -- " the second Taprisiot began. "I'm sincere." "Ahseeda day-day," the second Taprisiot squeaked. "I'll stack you with somebody's firewood if you don't get cracking," McKie snarled. "Can you make contact?" "Who you call?" the second Taprisiot asked. "Not me, you fugitive from a sawmill!" McKie roared. "Them." He pointed at Tuluk and the first Taprisiot. "They stuck to Caleban," the second Taprisiot said. "Who you call?" "What do you mean, stuck?" McKie demanded. "Tangled?" the Taprisiot ventured. "Can either of them be called?" McKie asked. "Untangle soon, then call," the Taprisiot said. "Look," Siker said. McKie whirled. Tuluk was flexing his facial slit. A mandibular extensor came out, withdrew. McKie held his breath. Tuluk's facial slit opened wide and he said, "Fascinating." "Tuluk?" McKie said. The slit widened. Wreave eyes stared out. "Yes?" Then: "Ah, McKie. You made it." "You call now?" the second Taprisiot asked. "Get rid of him," McKie ordered. Squeaking protests -- "If you not call, why disturb?" -- the Taprisiot was removed from the room. "What happened to you, Tuluk?" McKie asked. "Difficult to explain," the Wreave said. "Try." "Imbedment," Tuluk said. "That has something to do with planetary conjunctions, whether the points linked by a call are aligned with each other across open space. There was some problem with this call, discontinuous through a stellar mass, perhaps. And it was contact with a Caleban -- I don't appear to have the proper words." "Do you understand what happened to you?" "I think so. You know, I hadn't realized where I lived." McKie stared at him, puzzled. "What?" "Something's wrong here," Tuluk said. "Oh, yes -- Furuneo." "You said something about where you lived," McKie prodded. "Space occupancy, yes," Tuluk said. "I live in a place with many -- ah -- synonymous? Yes, synonymous occupants." "What are you talking about?" "I was actually in contact with the Caleban during my call to you," Tuluk said. "Very odd, McKie. It was as though my call went through a pinhole in a black curtain and the pinhole was the Caleban." "So you contacted the Caleban," McKie prompted. "Oh, yes. Indeed I did." Tuluk's mandibular extensors moved in a pattern indicative of emotional disturbance. "I saw! That's it. I saw -- ah -- many frames of parallel films. Of course, I didn't really see them. It was the eye." "Eye? Whose eye?" "That's the pinhole," Tuluk explained. "It's our eye, too, naturally." "Do you understand any of this, McKie?" Bildoon asked. "My impression is he's talking like a Caleban," McKie said. He shrugged. "Contaminated, perhaps. Entangled?" "I suspect," Bildoon said, "that Caleban communication can be understood only by the certifiably insane." from his lip. He felt he could almost understand what Tuluk Jbad said. Meaning hovered right at the edge of awareness. "Tuluk," Bildoon said, "try to tell us what happened to you. We don't understand you." "I am trying." "Keep at it," McKie said. "You contacted the Caleban," Bildoon said. "How was that done? We've been told it's impossible." "It was partly because the Caleban seemed to be handling my call to McKie," Tuluk said. "Then -- McKie ordered me to call the Caleban. Perhaps it heard." Tuluk closed his eyes, appeared lost in reverie. "Go on," Bildoon said. "I -- it was -- " Tuluk shook his head, opened his eyes, stared pleadingly around the room. He met curious, probing eyes on all sides. "Imagine two spiderwebs," he said. "Natural spiderwebs, now, not the kind they spin at our command -- random products. Imagine that they must -- contact each other -- a certain congruity between them, an occlusion." "Like a dental occlusion?" McKie asked. "Perhaps. At any rate, this necessary congruity, this shape required for contact, presumes upon proper connectives." McKie expelled a harsh breath. "What the devil are connectives?" "I go now?" the first Taprisiot interrupted. "Damn," McKie said. "Somebody get rid of this thing." The Taprisiot was hustled from the room. "Tuluk, what are connectives?" McKie demanded. "Is this important?" Bildoon asked. "Will you all take my word for it and let him answer?" McKie IF asked. "It's important, believe me. Tuluk?" Tuluk said, "You realize, of course, that artificiality can be refined to the point where it's virtually indistinguishable from original reality?" "What's that have to do with connectives?" "It's precisely at that point where the single distinguishing characteristic between original and artificial is the connective." "Huh?" McKie said. "Look at me," Tuluk said. "I am looking at you." "Imagine that you take a food vat and produce in it an exact fleshly duplicate of my person," Tuluk said. "An exact fleshly -- " "You could do it, couldn't you?" Tuluk demanded. "Of course. But why?" "Just imagine it. Don't question. An exact duplicate down to and including the cellular message units. This fleshwould be imbued with all my memories and responses. Ask it a question you might ask of me and it would answer as I might answer. Even my mates wouldn't be able to distinguish between us." "So," McKie said. "Would there be any difference between us?" Tuluk asked. "But you said -- " "There would be one difference, wouldn't there?" "The time element, the -- " "More than that," Tuluk said. "One would know it was a copy. Now, that chairdog in which Ser Bildoon sits is a different matter, not so?" "Huh?" "It's an unthinking animal," Tuluk said. McKie stared at the chairdog Tuluk had indicated. It was a product of genetic shaping, gene surgery and selection. What possible difference could it make that the chairdog was an animal -- however remotely descended? "What does the chairdog eat?" Tuluk asked. "The food tailored for it, what else?" McKie turned back to the Wreave, studied him. "But neither the chairdog nor its food are the same as their ancestral flesh," Tuluk said. "The vat food is an endless, serial chain of protein. The chairdog is flesh which is ecstatic in its work." "Of course. That's the way it was made." McKie's eyes went wide. He began to see what Tuluk was explaining. "The differences, these are the connectives," Tuluk said. "McKie, do you understand this gibberish?" Bildoon demanded. McKie's throat was dry. "The Caleban sees only these -- refined differences?" he asked. "And nothing else," Tuluk said. "Then it doesn't see us as shapes or dimensions or -- " "Or even as extensions in time as we understand time," Tuluk said. "We are, perhaps, nodes on a standing wave. Time, for the Caleban, isn't Something squeezed out of a tube. It's more like a line which your senses intersect." , McKie breathed deeply. "I don't see where this helps us one bit," Bildoon said. "Our major problem is to find Abnethe. Do you have any idea, McKie, where that Caleban sent you?" "I saw the night constellations overhead," McKie said. "Before I leave we'll get a mindcord on what I saw and have a computer check on the star patterns." "Provided the pattern's in the Master Registry," Bildoon said. "What about that slave culture McKie stumbled on?" one of the Legal staff asked. "We could ask fora... "Haven't any of you been listening?" McKie asked. "Our problem is to find Abnethe. I thought we had her, but I'm beginning to think this may not be that easy. Where is she? How can we go into a court and say 'At some unknown place in an unknown galaxy, a female believed to be Mliss Abnethe, but whom I didn't really see, is alleged to be conductmg... "Then what do we do?" the Legal staffer growled. "With Furuneo dead, who's watching Fanny Mae?" McKie asked. "We have four enforcers watching inside -- where she is," Bildoon said. "And four outside, watching them. Are you sure you've no other clue to where you were?" "None." "A complaint by McKie would fail now." Bildoon said. "No -- a better move might be to charge her with harboring a -- " he shuddered -- "Pan Spechi fugitive." "Do we know who that fugitive is?" McKie asked. "Not yet. We haven't decided the proper course yet. I'm leaving that up to legal." He glanced at a Legal Department representative, a human female seated near Tuluk. "Hanaman?" Hanaman cleared her throat. She was a fragile woman, thick head of brown hair in gentle waves, a long oval face with soft blue eyes, delicate nose and chin, a wide full mouth. "You think it advisable to discuss this in Council now?" she asked. "I do or I wouldn't have called on you," Bildoon said. F OR an instant McKie thought the reproof might bring real tears to Hanaman's eyes. Then he saw the controlled, measuring stare she swept around the conference room. She had brains, he saw, and knew there were those here susceptible to her sex. "McKie," she said, "is it necessary for you to stand on the table? You're not a Taprisiot." "Thanks for reminding me," he said. He jumped down, found a chairdog opposite her, stared back at her with a bland intensity. Presently she focused on Bildoon, said, "To bring everyone up to date, Abnethe with one Palenki tried to flog the Caleban about two hours ago. Acting on our orders, an enforcer prevented the flogging. He cut off the Palenki's arm with a raygen. As a result, Abnethe's legal staff already is seeking an injunction." "Then they were prepared ahead of time," McKie said. IF "Obviously," she agreed. "They're alleging outlaw sabotage, misfeasance by a bureau, mayhem, misconduct, malicious mischief, felonious misprision -- " "Misfeasance?" McKie demanded. "This is a robo-legum case, not a Gowachin jurisdiction," Hanaman said. "We don't have to exonerate the prosecutor before entering the -- " She broke off, shrugged. "Well, you know all that. BuSab is being held to answer for collective responsibility in the consequences of unlawful and wrongful acts committed by its agents in pursuance of the authority permitted them -- " "Wait a minute," McKie interrupted. "This is bolder than I expected from that crowd." " -- and they charge," Hanaman went on, "that the Bureau is guilty of a felony by criminal neglect in failure to prevent a felony from being committed and not bringing to justice the offender after such commission." "Have they named names or is it all John Does?" McKie asked. "No names." "If they're this bold, they're desperate," McKie said. "Why?" "They know we aren't going to sit idly by and allow our people to be killed," Bildoon said. "They know we have copies of the contract with the Caleban and that it gives Abnethe control of the Caleban's jumpdoor. No one else could have been responsible for Furuneo's death and the perpetrator -- " "No one except the Caleban," McKie said. A profound silence settled over the room. Presently Tuluk said, "You don't seriouly believe -- " "No, I don't," McKie said. "But I couldn't prove my belief to a robo-legum court. This does present an interesting possibility, though." "Furuneo's head," Bildoon said. "Correct," McKie said. "We demand Furuneo's head." "What if they contend the Caleban sequestered the head?" Hanaman asked. "I don't intend asking them for it," McKie said. "I'm going to ask the Caleban." Hanaman nodded, her gaze intent on McKie with a light of admiration in her eyes. "Clever," she breathed. "If they attempt to interfere -- they're guilty. But if we get the head -- " She looked at Tuluk. "What about it, Tuluk?" Bildoon asked. "Think you could get anything from Furuneo's brain?" "That depends on how much time has passed between the death and our key-in," Tuluk said. "Nerve replay has limits, you know." "We know," Bildoon said. "Yeah," McKie said. "Only one thing for me to do now; isn't there?" "Looks that way," Bildoon said. "Will you call off the enforcers or shall I?" McKie asked. "Now, wait a minute," Bildoon said. "I know you have to go back to that Beachball but -- " "Alone," McKie said. "Why?" "I can give the demand 'for Furuneo's head in front of witnesses," McKie said, "but that's not enough. They want me. I got away from them and they've no idea how much I know about their hidey hole." "Exactly what do you know?" Bildoon asked. "We've already been through that," McKie said. "So you now see yourself as bait?" "I wouldn't put it exactly that way," McKie said. "But if I'm alone they mighT try bargaining with me. They might even -- " "They might even shorten you!" Bildoon snarled. "You don't think it's worth the try?" McKie asked. He stared around the room at the attentive faces. Hanaman cleared her throat. "I see a way out of this." Everyone looked at her. "We could put McKie under Taprisiot surveillance," she said. "He's a ready-made victim if he's sitting there in a sniggertrance," Tuluk said. "Not if the Taprisiot contacts are minimal every few seconds." "And as long. as I'm not yelling for help the Tappy breaks off," McKie said. "Good." "I don't like it," Bildoon said. "What if -- " "You think they'll talk openly to me if they see the plate full of enforcers? McKie asked. "No, but if we can prevent -- " "We can't and you know it." Bildoon glared at him but did not speak. "We must have those contacts between McKie and Abnethe if we're going to try cross-charting to locate her position," Tuluk said. Bildoon stared at the table in front of him. "That Beachball has a fixed position on Cordiality," McKie argued. "Cordiality has a known planetary period. At the instant of each contact the Ball will be pointing at a position in space -- a line of least resistance for the contact. Enough contacts will describe a cone with -- " " -- with Abnethe somewhere in it," Bildoon supplied, looking up. "Provided you're right about this thing." "The call connectives have to seek their conjunction through open space," Tuluk said. "There must be no large stellar masses between call points, no hydrogen clouds of any serious dimensions, no groups of large planetary -- " "I understand the theory," Bildoon said. "But there's no theory needed about what they can do to McKie. It'd take them less than two seconds to slip a jumpdoor over his neck and -- " He drew a finger across his throat. "So you have the Tappy contact me every two seconds," McKie said. "Work it in relays. Get a string of agents in -- " "And what if they don't try to contact you?" Bildoon thoughtfully asked. "Then we'll have to sabotage them," McKie said. IF to it, McKie decided, this Beachball wasn't as weird a home as some he'd seen. It was hot, yes, but that fitted a peculiar requirement of the occupant. Sentients existed in hotter climates. The giant spoon where the Caleban's unpresence could be detected -- well, that could be equated with a divan. Wall handles, spools there, lights and whatnot -- all those were almost conventional in appearance, although McKie seriously doubted he could understand their functions. The automated homes of Breedywie, though, displayed more outlandish control consoles. The ceiling here was a bit low but he could stand without stooping. The purple gloom was no stranger than the variglare of Gowachin where most offworld sentients had to wear protective goggles while visiting friends. The Beachball's floor covering did not appear to be a conventional living organism, but it was soft. Right now it smelled of a standard pyrocene cleaner-disinfectant and the fumes were rather stifling in the heat. McKie shook his head. The flybuzz zzzzt of Taprisiot contact every two seconds was annoying but he found he could override the distraction. Your friend reached ultimate discontinuity , the Caleban had explained. His substance has been removed. For substance , read blood-andbody, McKie translated. He hoped the translation achieved some degree of accuracy but he cautioned himself not to be too sure of that. If we could only have a little air current in here, McKie thought. Just a small breeze... He mopped perspiration from his forehead, drank from one of the water jugs he'd provided for himself. "You still there, Fanny Mae?" You observe my presence? "Almost." That is our mutual problem -- seeing each other, the Caleban said. "You're using time-ordinal verbs with more confidence, I note." I get the hang of them, yes? "I hope so." I date the verb as a nodal position. "I don't believe I want that explained." Very well -- I comply. "I'd like to try again to understand how the floggings are timed." ' When shapes reach proper proportion. "You already said that. What shapes?" A I ready? That signifies earlier? "Earlier," McKie said. "That's right. You said that about shapes before." Earlier and before and already. Yes -- times of different conjunction by linear alteration of intersecting connectives. Time, for the Caleban, was a position on a line, McKie reminded himself, recalling Tuluk's attempt at explanation. He had to look for the subtly refined differences -- they were all this creature saw. "What shapes?" McKie repeated. Shapes defined by duration lines. I see many duration lines. You , oddly, carry visual sensation of one line only. Very strange. Other teachers explain this to self but understanding fails -- extreme constriction. Self admires molecular acceleration but -- maintenance exchange confuses. Confuses! "What molecular acceleration?" Teachers define molecule as smallest characteristic unit of element or compound. True? "That's right." This carries difficulty in understanding unless ascribed by self to perceptive difference between our species. Say, instead, molecule perhaps equals smallest physical unit visible to species. True? What was the difference? It was all gibberish. How had they gotten off onto molecules and acceleration from the proper proportion of undefined shapes? "Why acceleration?" Acceleration always occurs along convergence lines we use while speaking , one to another. Oh, damn! McKie lifted a water jug, drank, choked on a swallow. He bent forward, gasping. When he could manage it he said, "The heat in here -- molecular speedup?" Do these concepts not interchange? the Caleban asked. "Never mind that," McKie blurted, still spitting water. "When you speak to me -- is that what accelerates the molecules?" Self assumes this true condition. McKie put down the water jug carefully, capped it. He began to laugh. Not understand these terms, the Caleban objected. McKie shook his head. The Caleban's words still came at him with that non-speech quality but he detected definite querulous notes -- overtones. Accents? He gave it up. There was something, though. Not understand, the Caleban insisted. This made McKie laugh all the harder. "Oh, my," he gasped when he could catch his breath. "The ancient wheeze was right all along and nobody knew it. Oh, my. Talk is just hot air -- " Again laughter convulsed him. Presently he lay back, inhaled deeply. In a moment, he sat up, took another swallow of water, capped the jug. Teach, the Caleban commanded. Explain these unusual terms. "Terms? Oh -- certainly. Laughter. It's our common response to nonfatal surprise. No other significant communicative content." Laughter. Other nodal encounters with term noted. "Other nodal -- " McKie broke off. "You've heard the word before, you mean?" Before. Yes. I -- self --  attempt understanding of term, laughter. We explore meaning now? "Let's not." Negative reply? "That's correct -- negative. I'm IF much more curious about what you said about -- maintenance exchange. That was what you said, wasn't it? Maintenance exchange confuses?" I attempt define position for you odd one-tracks. "One-tracks, that's how you think of us, eh?" McKie felt suddenly small and inadequate. Relationship of connectives, one to many, many to one, the Caleban said. Maintenance exchange. "How in the hell did we get into this deadend conversation?" You seek positional referrents for placement of floggings, that begins conversation. "Placement -- yeah." You understand S' eye effect? best of his knowledge no Caleban had ever before volunteered a discussion of the S'eye effect. The one-two-three of how to use the mechanism of the jumpdoors -- yes, this was something they could (and did) explain. But not the theory. "I -- uh -- use the jumpdoors," McKie said. "I know something of how the control mechanism is assembled and tuned to -- " Mechanism not coincide with effect! "Uhhh, certainly," McKie agreed. "The word's not the thing." Precisement! We say --  translate, you understand? We say, ' Term evades node.' You catch the hanging of this term, self thinks. "I -- uh -- get the hang tf it," McKie agreed. Recommend hang-line as good thought. Self, I believe we approach true communication. It wonders me. "You wonder about it," McKie corrected. Negative. It wonders about me. "That's great," McKie said in a flat voice. "That's communication?" Understanding diffuses -- scatters? Yes -- understanding scatters when we discuss connectives. I observe connectives of your -- psyche. For psyche, I understand ' other self.' True? "Whyrnot?" I see -- the Caleban ignored McKie's defeated tone -- psyche patterns, perhaps their colors. Approachments and outreachings touch my awareness. I come, through this , to unwinding of intelligence and perhaps understand what you mean by term -- stellar mass. Self understands by being stellar mass, you hang this, McKie? "Hang this? Oh, sure -- sure." Good. Comes now an understanding of your -- wanderings? Difficult word, McKie. Very likely this an uncertain exchange. Wandering equals movement along one line for you. This cannot exist for us. One moves, all move for Caleban on own plane. S' eye effect combines all movements and vision. I see you to other place of your desired wandering. McKie, his interest renewed by this odd rambling, said, "You see us -- that's what moves us from one place to another?" I hear sentient of your plane say sameness, McKie. Sentient say, # IF will see you to the door. ' So? Seeing moves. Seeing moves? McKie wondered. He mopped his forehead, his lips. The Beachball was so damned hot. What did all this have to do with maintenance exchange? Whatever that was. Stellar mass maintains and exchanges, the Caleban said. Not see through, the self. S' eye connective discontinues. You call this -- privacy? Cannot say. This Caleban exists alone of self on your plane. Lonely. We're all lonely, McKie thought. He put down a surge of irritation at the zzzz-beat of the Taprisiot intrusions. That, at least, was companionship. "Do Taprisiots send our messages across space the same way?" he asked. "Do they see the calls?" Taprisiot very weak. Taprisiot not possess Caleban energy. Selj energy, you understand? "I dunno. Maybe." Taprisiot see very thin, very short. Taprisiot not see through stellar mass of self. Sometimes Taprisiot ask for -- boost? Amplification. Caleban provide service. Maintenance exchange, you hang? Taprisiot pay, we pay, you pay. All pay energy. You call energy demand -- hunger, not so? "Oh, hell," McKie said. "Fm not getting the half of -- " rying a whip inserted itself into the space above the giant spoon. The whip cracked, sent a geyser of green sparks into the purple gloom. Arm and whip were gone before McKie could move. "Fanny Mae," McKie whispered, "you still there?" Silence -- then: No laughter, McKie. Thing you call surprise -- but no laughter. I break line there. An abruptness, that flogging. McKie exhaled, noted the mindclock timing of the incident, relayed the coordinates at the next Taprisiot contact. There was no sense talking about pain, he thought. It was equally fruitless to explore inhaling whips or exhaling substance -- or maintenance exchanges or hunger or stellar masses or Calebans moving other sentients by the energy of seeing. Communication was bogged down. He and Fanny Mae had achieved something, though. Tuluk had been right. The S'eye contacts for the floggings required some timing or periodicity that could be identified. Perhaps there was a line-of-sight involved. One thing sure: Abnethe had her feet planted on a real planet somewhere. She and her mob of psycho friends -- her psycho-phants! -- all had a position in space which could be located. She had Palenkis, renegade Wreaves, an outlaw Pan Spechi -- gods knew what all. She had Beautybarbers, too, and Taprisiots and this Caleban all used the same sort of energy to do their work. "Could we try again," McKie asked, "to locate Abnethe's planet?" Contract forbids. "You have to honor it, eh? Even to the death?" Honor to ultimate discontinuity , yes. "And that's pretty near, is it?" Position of ultimate discontinuity becomes visible to self , the Caleban said. Perhaps this equates with near. Again arm and whip flicked into being, showered the air with a cascade of green sparks and withdrew. McKie darted forward, stopped beside the spoon bowl. He had never before ventured quite this close to the Caleban. There was more heat near the bowl and he felt a tingling sensation along his arms. The shower of green sparks had left no mark on the carpeting, no residual substance, nothing. McKie felt the insistent attraction of the Caleban's unpresence, a disturbing intensity this near. He forced himself to turn away. His palms were wet with fear. What else was he afraid of here? "Those two attacks came pretty close together," McKie said. Positional adjacency noted. Next coherence more distanf . You say 'farther away? True? "Yeah. Will the next flogging be your last?" Self not know, the Caleban said. Your presence lessens flogging intensity. You -- reject? Ahhh, repel! "No doubt," McKie said. "I wish I knew why the end of you means the end of everyone else." You transfer self of you with S'eye, the Caleban said. So? "Everyone does." Why? You teach of explanation this? "It's centralizing the whole damn universe. It's -- it's created the specialized planets -- honeymoon planets, gynecology planets, pediatrics planets, snow-sport planets, geriatrics planets, swimsport planets, library planets -- even BuSab had almost a whole planet to itself. Nobody gets by without it any more. Last figures I saw, fewer than a fraction of one per cent of the sentiment population had never used a S'eye jumpdoor." Truth. Such use creates connectives, McKie. You must hang this. Connectives must shatter with my discontinuity. Shatter conveys ultimate discontinuity for all who use jump door S 'eye. "If you say so. I still don't understand." It occurs, McKie, because my fellows choose me for -- coordinator? Inadequate term. Funnel? Handler, perhaps. No, still inadequate. Ahhh! I, self of I, am S' eye! McKie backed away, retreating from such a wave of sadness that he felt he could not contain it. He wanted to scream in protest. Tears flowed down his cheeks unbidden. A sob choked him. Sadness! His body was reacting to it but the emotion came from outside himself. Slowly it faded. McKie blew air soundlessly through his lips. He still trembled from the passage of that emotion. It had been the Caleban's emotion, he realized. But it came out like the waves of heat in this room, IF swept over and immersed every nerve receptor in its path. Sadness. Responsibility for all those impending deaths, no doubt.  am S' eye! devils in the universe could the Caleban mean by such a strange claim? He thought of each jumpdoor passage. Connectives? Threads, perhaps. Each being caught by the S'eye effect trailed threads of himself through, the jumpdoors. Was that it? Fanny Mae had used the word 'funnel.' Every traveler went through her -- hands? Whatever. And when she ceased to exist the threads broke. All died. "Why weren't we warned about this when you offered us the S'eye effect?" Warned? "Yes. You offered -- " Not offer. Fellows explain effect. Sentients of your wave expose great joy. They offer exchange of maintenance. You call this pay, not so? "We should have been warned." Why? "Well, you don't live forever, do you?" Explain this term, forever. "Forever -- always. Infinity." Sentients of your wave seek infinity? "Not for individuals but for -- " Sentient species, they seek infinity? "Of course they do." Why? "Doesn't everyone?" But what about other species for which yours must make way? You not believe in evolution? "Evo -- " McKie shook his head sharply. "What's that have to do with it?" All beings have own day and depart, the Caleban said. Day correct term? Day, unit of time, alio ted linearity, normal extent of existence -- you hang this? McKie's mouth moved but no words came out. Length of line, time of existence , the Caleban said. Approximately translated , correct? "But what gives you the right to -- terminate us?" McKie demanded, finding his voice. Right not assumed, McKie. Given condition of proper connectives, another of my fellows takes up S'eye -- control before self reaches ultimate discontinuity. Unusual -- circumstance rejects such solution here. Mliss Abnethe and -- associates shorten your onetrack. My fellows leave. "They ran for it while they had time? I understand." Time -- yes, your single-track line. This comparison provides suitable concept. Inadequate but sufficient. "And you are definitely the last Caleban in our -- wave?" Self alone. Terminal end-point Caleban -- yes. Self confirms description. "Wasn't there any way to save yourself?" McKie asked. Save? Ahhh -- avoid? Evade! Yes, evade ultimate discontinuity. This you suggest? "I'm asking if there wasn't some way for you to escape the way your fellows did?" Way exists but result same for your wave. "You could save yourself but it would end us -- is that it?" You not possess honor concept? Save self, lose honor. ,, Touche ,, McKie said. Explain touche. New term. "Eh? Oh, that's a very, old, ancient term." Linear beginning term, you say? Yes, those best with nodal frequency. "Nodal frequency?" You say -- often. Nodal frequency contains often. "They mean the same thing? I see." Not same. Similar. "I stand corrected." Explain touche. What meaning conveys this term? "Meaning conveys -- yeah. It's a fencing term." Fencing? You signify containment? McKie explained fencing as best he could with a side journey into swordsmanship, the concept of single combat, competition. Effective touch, the Caleban interrupted, her words conveying definite wonder. Nodal intersection. Touche '! Ahhh-ahhh! This contains why we find your species to fascinate us. This concept! Cutting line: touche # Pierced by meaning: touche '! "Ultimate discontinuity," McKie snarled. " Touched How far away is your next touche with the whip?" Intersection of whip touche! You seek position of linear displacement, yes. It moves me. We perhaps occupy our linearities yet g-but self suggests another species may need these dimensions. We leave, outgo from existence, then. Not so? When McKie didn't answer, the Caleban said: McKie, you hang my meaning? "I think I'm going to sabotage you," McKie muttered. IX Spechi, stared out across the forest toward sunset over the sea. It was good, he thought, that the Ideal World contained such a sea. This tower Mliss had ordered built in a city of lesser buildings and spires commanded a view which included also the distant plain and far away mountains of the interior. A steady wind blew against his left cheek, stirred his yellow hair. He wore green trousers and an open-mesh shirt of dull gold and gray. The clothing gave a subtle accent to his humanoid appearance, revealing the odd ripples of alien muscles here and there about his body. An amused smile occupied his mouth but not his eyes. He had Pan Spechi eyes, many-faceted, glistening -- although the facets were edge-faded by his ego-surgery. The eyes watched the insect movements of various sentients on streets and bridgeway s below him. At the same time they reported on the sky overhead (a far-away flock of birds, streamers of sunset IF clouds) and told him of the view toward the sea and the nearby ballus trade. We're going to pull it ojj. He glanced at the antique chronograph Mliss had given him. Crude thing, but it showed the sunset hour. They had had to disengage from the Taprisiot mindclock system, though. This crude device showed two hours to go until the next contact. They can't stop us. But maybe they can... He thought about McKie then. How had the BuSab agent found this place? And finding it, how had he come here? McKie sat in the Beachball with the Caleban right now -- bait, obviously. Bait! For what? Cheo didn't enjoy the contradictory emotions surging back and forth through him. He had broken the most basic Pan Spechi law. He had captured his creche's ego and abandoned his four mates to a mindless existence terminating in mindless death. A renegade surgeon's instruments had excised the organ which united the pentarchal Pan Spechi family across all space. The surgery had left a scar on Cheo's forehead and a scar on his soul but he had never imagined he would find such delicate relish in the experience. Nothing could take the ego from him. But he was alone, too. Death would end it, of course, but all creatures had that to face. And thanks to Mliss, he had a retreat from which no other Pan Spechi could extricate him -- unless -- but there would be no other Pan Spechi very soon. There would be no other organized sentients at all except the handful Mliss had brought here to her Ark with its mad Boers and Blacks. Abnethe came hurrying onto the observation deck behind him. His ears, as multi-planar in discrimination as his eyes, marked the emotions in her footsteps -- boredom, worry, the constant fear which constricted her being. Cheo turned. She had been to a Beautybarber, he observed. Red hair now crowned her lovely face. McKie had red hair, too, Cheo reminded himself. She threw herself onto a reclining chairdog, stretched her legs. "What's your hurry?" he asked. "Those Beautybarbers," she snapped. "They want to go home." "Send them." "But where will I find others?" "That is a proper problem, isn't it?" "You're making fun of me, Cheo. Don't." "Then tell them they can't go home." "I did." "Did you tell them why?" "Of course not. What a thing to say!" "You told Furuneo." "I learned my lesson. Where are my legal people?" "They've already gone." "But I had other things to discuss with them." "Won't it wait?" "You knew we had other business. Why did you let them go?" "Mliss, you don't really want to know the other matter on their minds." "The Caleban's to blame," she said. "That's our story and no one can disprove it. What was the other matter the legal numb-heads wanted to discuss?" "Mliss, drop it." "Cheo!" His Pan Spechi eyes glittered suddenly. "As you wish. They conveyed a demand from BuSab. They have asked the Caleban for Furuneo's head." "His -- " She paled. "But how did they know we -- " "They know nothing. But theirs was an obvious move under the circumstances." "What did you tell them?" she whispered. She stared at his face. "I told them the Caleban closed the S'eye jumpdoor just as Furuneo was entering it of his own volition." "But they know we have a monopoly on that S'eye," she said, he voice stronger. "Damn them!" "Ahhh," Cheo said, "but Fanny Mae has been moving McKie and his friends around. That indicates we have no monopoly." "That's exactly what I said before. Isn't it?" "It gives us the perfect delaying tactic," he said. "Fanny Mae sent the head somewhere and we don't know where. I've told her, of course, to deny this request." She swallowed. "Is that -- what you told them?" "Of course." "But if they question the Caleban -- " "They're just as likely to get a confusing answer as a usable one." "That was very clever of you, Cheo." "Isn't that why you keep me around?" "I keep you around for mysterious reasons of my own," she said, smiling. "I depend on that," he said. "You know," she said, "I'll miss them." "Miss whom?" "The ones who hunt us." way to Tuluk's personal lab, his back to the long outer room where the Wreave's assistants did most of their work. The BuSab chief's deepset eyes held a faceted glitter, a fire that failed to match the composure of his humanoid Pan Spechi face. Tuluk was working at a bench against the opposite wall. He had a length of bullwhip rawhide stretched between two clamps. Parallel with the rawhide and metal pole, balanced on air without visible support. Between rawhide and pole could be seen flickers of miniature lightning -- it danced along the entire length of the gap. Tuluk was bent over, reading meters set into the bench beneath the device. "Am I interrupting anything?" Bildoon asked. Tuluk turned a knob on the bench, waited, turned the knob once more. He caught the pole as the invisible supporting force released it. He racked the pole on IF supports against the back wall above the bench. "That is a silly question," he said, turning. "It is, at that," Bildoon said. "We have a problem." "Without problems, we have no employment," Tuluk said. "I don't think we're going to get Furuneo's head," Bildoon said. "It's been so long now, we probably couldn't have gotten a reliable nerve replay anyway," Tuluk said. He screwed his face slit into an S-curve, an expression he knew aroused amusement among other sentients. But it represented intense thought for a Wreave. "What do the astronomers say about the star pattern McKie saw on that mysterious planet?" "They think there may have been an error in the mindcord." "Oh. Why?" "For one thing, there isn't even a hint, not the slightest subjective indication of variation in stellar magnitudes." "All the visible stars had the same light intensity?" "Apparently." "Odd." "And the nearest pattern similarity," Bildoon said, "is one that doesn't exist any more." "What do you mean?" "Well -- there's a Big Dipper, a Little Dipper, various other constellations and zodiac similarities but -- " He shrugged. Tuluk stared at him blankly. "I don't recognize the references," he said, presently. "Oh, yes -- I forgot," Bildoon said. "We Pan Spechi, when we decided to copy human form, explored their history with some care. These patterns of stars are ones that were visible from their ancient homeworld." "I see. Another oddity to go with what I've discovered about the material of this whip." "What's that?" "It's very strange. Parts of this leather betray a subatomic structure of peculiar alignment." "Peculiar? How?" "Aligned. Perfectly aligned. I've never seen anything like it outside certain rather fluid energy phenomena. It's as though the material had been subjected to some peculiar force or stress. The result is, in some ways, similar to neomaser alignment of light quanta." "Wouldn't that require enormous energy?" "Presumably." "But what could cause it?" "I don't know. The interesting thing is that it doesn't appear to be a permanent change. The structure shows characteristics like plastic memory. It's slowly snapping back into reasonably familiar forms." Bildoon Heard the emphasis that betrayed Tuluk's disturbance. "Reasonably familiar?" he asked. "That's another thing," Tuluk said. "Let me explain. These subatomic structures and their resultant overstructures of genetic message units undergo slow evolution. We can, by comparing structures, date some samples to within two or three thousand standard years. Since cattle cells form the basic protein for vat culture food, we have fairly complete records on them over a very long time indeed. The strange thing about the samples in this piece of rawhide -- " he gestured with a mandibular extensor -- "is that its pattern is very ancient." "How ancient?" "Perhaps several hundred thousand years." Bildoon absorbed this. Then: "But you told us earlier that this rawhide was only a couple of years old." "According to our catalyzing tests, it is." "Could this alignment stress have mixed up the pattern?" "Conceivably." "You doubt it, then?" "I do." "You're not trying .to tell me that whip was brought forward through time?" "I'm not trying to tell you anything outside the facts I've reported. Two tests, previously considered reliable, do not agree as to the dating of this material." "Time travel's an impossibility," Bildoon said. "So we've always assumed." "We know it. We know it mathematically and pragmatically. It's a fiction device, a myth, an amusing concept employed by entertainers. We reject it and we are left without paradox. Only one conclusion remains: the alignment stress, whatever that was, changed the pattern." "If the rawhide were -- squeezed through a subatomic filter of some sort, that might account for it," Tuluk said. "But since I have no such filter or the power to do this theoretical squeezing, I cannot test it." "You must have some thoughts about it, though." "I do. I cannot conceive of a filter that would do this thing without destroying the materials subjected to such forces." "Then what you're saying," Bildoon said, his voice rising in angry frustration, "is that an impossible device did an impossible thing to that impossible piece ofof-" "Yes, sir," Tuluk said. aides in the outer room were turning their faces toward him, showing signs of amusement. He stepped fully into the lab, closed the door. "I came down here hoping you'd found something that might force their hand," Bildoon said, "and you give me conundrums." "Your displeasure doesn't change the facts," Tuluk said. "No, I guess it doesn't." "The structure of the Palenki arm cells was aligned in a similar fashion," Tuluk said. "But only around the cut." "You anticipated my next question." "It was obvious. Passage IF through a jumpdoor doesn't account for it. We sent several of our people through jumpdoors with various materials and tested random cells -- living and dead -- fora check." "Two conundrums in an hour is more than I like," Bildoon said. "Two?" "We now have twenty-eight positional incidents of Abnethe flogging that Caleban or attempting to flog it. That's enough to show us they do not define a cone in space. Unless she's jumping around from planet to planet, that theory's wrong." "Given the powers of that S'eye, she could be jumping around." "We don't think so. That isn't her way. She's a nesting bird. She likes a citadel. She's the kind who castles in chess when she doesn't have to." "She could be sending her Palenkis." "She's there with them every time." "We've collected six whips and arms in all," Tuluk said. "Do you want me to repeat these tests on all of them?" Bildoon stared at the Wreave. The question wasn't like him. Tuluk was plodding, thorough. "What would you rather be doing?" Bildoon asked. "We have twenty-eight examples," you say. "Twenty-eight is one of the euclidian perfects. It's four times the prime seven. The number strongly indicates randomness. But we're faced with a situation apparently excluding randomness. Ergo, an organizing pattern is at work which is not revealed by analytic numbering as far as we've taken it. I would like to subject the pacing -- both in time and physical dimension -- to a complete analysis, compare for any similarities we -- " "You'd put an assistant on the other whips and arms to check them out?" "That goes without saying." Bildoon shook his head. "What Abnethe's doing -- it's impossible!" "If she does a thing, how can it be impossible?" "She and her crew have to be somewhere," Bildoon snapped. "I find it very strange," Tuluk said, "this trait you share mih humans of stating the obvious in sucemphatic fashion." "Oh, go to hell," Bildoon said. He turned, slammed out of the lab. Tuluk, racing to the door after him, opened it and called at the retreating back, "It is a Wreave belief that we already are in hell." He returned to his bench, muttering. Humans and Pan Spechi -- impossible creatures. Except for McKie. Now, there was a human who occasionally achieved analytic rapport with sentients capable of higher logic. Well -- every species had its exceptions to the norm. B Y AN effort of communication he still did not completely understand, McKie had talked the Caleban into opening the Beachball's external port. This permitted a bath of spray-washed air to flow to where he sat. It also accomplished one other thing -- it allowed a crew of watchers outside to hold eyeball contact with him. He had just about given up hoping Abnethe would rise to the bait. There would have to be another solution. Visual contact with watchers also permitted a longer spacing between Taprisiot guard contacts. He found the new spacing less tiresome. Morning sunshine splashed across the lip of the opening into the Beachball. McKie put a hand into the light, felt the warmth. He knew he should be moving around, making a poor target of himself, but the presence of the watchers made attack unlikely. Besides, he was tired, drugged to alertness and full of the odd emotions induced by angaret. Movement seemed an empty effort. If they wanted to kill him they were going to do it. Furuneo's death proved that. From where he sat McKie could see out across the lava shelf to the rocky palisades and a mossy carpeting of sea growth exposed at the cliff base by the retreating tide. "Suppose we have it all wrong," he said, speaking over his shoulder toward the Caleban. "Suppose we really aren't communicating with each other at all. What if we've just been making noises, assuming a communication content that doesn't exist?"  fail of understanding, McKie. The hang doesn't get me. McKie turned slightly. The Caleban was doing something strange with the air around its position. The oval stage he had seen earlier shimmered once more into view, disappeared. A golden halo appeared at one side of the giant spoon, rose like a smoke ring, crackled electrically and vanished. "We're assuming," McKie said, "that when you say something to me I respond with meaningful words directly related to your statement -- and that you do the same. This may not be the cast at all." Unlikely.  "So it's unlikely. What are you doing there?" Doing ? "All that activity around you." Attempt making self visible on your wave. "Can you do it?" Possible. A bell-shaped red glow formed above the spoon, stretched into a straight line, resumed it bell curve, began whirling like a child's jump rope. What see you? the Caleban asked. McKie described the whirling red rope. Very odd, the Caleban said.  flex creativity and you report visible sensation. You need yet that opening to exterior conditions? "The open port? It makes it one helluva lot more comfortable in here." Comfort -- concept self fails to understand. "Does the opening prevent you from becoming visible?" It performs magnetic distraction, no more. McKie shrugged. "How much more flogging can you take?" IF Explain much. "You've left the track again," McKie said. Correct! That forms achieve ment, McKie. "How is it an achievement?" Self leaves communicative track and you achieve awareness of same. "All right, that's an achievement. Where's Abnethe?" Contract -- " -- prohibits revealing her location," McKie completed. "Maybe you can tell me, then -- is she jumping around or remaining on one planet?" That helps you locate her? "How in fifty-seven hells do I know?" Probability smaller than fifty seven elements , the Caleban said. Abnethe occupies relatively static position on specific planet. "But we can't find any pattern to her attacks on you or where they originate." You cannot see connectives. T HE whirling red rope flickered in and out of existence above the giant spoon. Abruptly it shifted color to a glowing yellow, vanished. "You just disappeared," McKie said. Not my person visible. "How's that?" You not seeing person-self. "That's what I said." Not say. Visibility to you not represent sameness of my person. You visible-see effect. "I wasn't seeing you, eh? That was just some effect you created." Correct. "I didn't think it was you. You're going to be something more shapely. I do notice something, though. There are moments when you used our verb tenses better -- I even spotted some fairly normal constructions." Self hangs this get me. "Yeah, well -- maybe you're not getting the hang of our language, after all." McKie stood up, stretched, moved closer to the open port, intending to peer out. As he moved, a shimmering silver loop dropped out of the air where he had been. He whirled in time to see it snake back through the small vortal tube of a jumpdoor. "Abnethe, is that you?" McKie demanded. There was no answer. The jumpdoor snapped out of existence. The enforcers watching from outside rushed to the port. One called, "You all right, McKie?" McKie waved him to silence, took a raygen from his pocket, held it loosely in his hand. "Fanny Mae," he said, "are they trying to capture or kill me the way they took care of Furuneo?" Observe theyness , the Caleban said. Furuneo not having existence, observable intentions unknown. "Did you see what just happened here?" McKie asked. Self contains awareness of S'eye employment , certain activity of employer persons. Activity ceases. McKie rubbed his left hand across his neck. He wondered if he could bring the raygen into play quickly enough to cut any snare they might drop over his head. That silver thing dropping into the room had looked suspiciously like a noose. "Is that how they got Furuneo?" McKie asked. "Did they drop a noose over his neck and pull him into the jumpdoor?" Discontinuity removes person oj sameness, the Caleban said. McKie shrugged, gave it up. That was more or less the answer the Caleban gave to all questions about Furuneo's death. Oddly, McKie discovered he was hungry. He wiped perspiration from his jaw and chin, cursed under his breath. There was no real assurance that what he heard in the Caleban's words represented true communication. Even granting some communication, how could he depend on the Caleban's interpretations or the Caleban's honesty? When the damn thing spoke, though, it radiated such a sense of sincerity that disbelief became almost impossible. McKie rubbed his chin, trying to catch an elusive thought. Strange. Here he was, hungry, angry and afraid. He had no place to run. He had to solve this problem. Imperfect as communication with the Caleban actually was, the warning from the creature could not be ignored. Too many sentients already had died or gone insane. buzz of Taprisiot contact. Damn surveillance. This contact, however, failed to break off. It was Siker, the Laclac Director of Discretion. Siker had detected McKie's disturbed emotions and, instead of breaking contact, locked in. "No!" McKie raged. He felt himself stiffen into the mumbling sniggertrance. "No, Siker! Break off!" "But what's wrong, McKie?" "Break off, you idiot, or I'm done for!" "Well -- all right. But you felt -- " "Break it!" Siker broke the contact. Once more aware of his body, McKie found himself dangling from a noose which had choked off his breath and was pulling him up into a small jumpdoor. He heard scrambling at the open port. He heard shouts but he couldn't respond. Fire encircled his neck. His chest burned. Panic filled his mind. He found he had dropped the raygen during the sniggertrance. He was helpless. His hands clawed futilely at the noose. Something grabbed his feet. Added weight tightened the noose. Abruptly the lifting force gave way. McKie fell, sprawling in a tangle with whoever had grabbed his feet. Several things happened at once. Enforcers helped him to his feet. A holoscan held by a Wreave was shoved past his face toward the jumpdoor which closed with an electric snap. Groping hands and extensors removed the noose from his neck. McKie inhaled a choking breath, gasped. He would have collapsed IF without the support of those around him. Gradually he became aware that five other sentients had entered the Beachball -- two Wreaves, a Laclac, a Pan Spechi and a Human. The Human and one of the Wreaves worked over McKie, clearing away the noose and supporting him. The holoscan operator was a Wreave, who was busy examining his instrument. The others were watching the space all around them, raygens ready. At least three sentients were trying to talk at the same time. "All right!" McKie shut off the babble. His throat hurt when he spoke. He grabbed the length of noose from the Wreave's extensors, examined it. The rope was of a silvery material McKie failed to recognize. It had been cut cleanly with a raygen. McKie looked at the enforcer with the holoscan, asked, "What did you get?" "The attack was made by an ego-frozen Pan Spechi, ser," the Wreave enforcer said. "I got a good record of his face. We'll try for ID." McKie tossed him the severed length of noose. "Get this thing back to the lab, too. Tell Tuluk to break it down to its basic structure. It may even have some of -- Furuneo's cells on it. The rest of you -- " "Ser?" It was the Pan Spechi among the enforcers. "Yes?" "Ser, we have orders. If an attempt is made on your life we are to stay with you in here." He passed a raygen to McKie. "You dropped this, I believe." McKie pocketed it with an angry gesture. Taprisiot contact filled McKie's mind. "Break it!" he snapped. But the contact firmed. It was Bildoon in a no-nonsense mood. "What's going on there; McKie?" McKie explained. "There are enforcers around you right now?" "Yes." "Anyone see the attackers?" "We got a holoscan. It was the ego-frozen Pan Spechi." McKie felt the emotional shudder from his Bureau chief. The sensation of horror was followed by a sharp command. "I want you back here at Central immediately." "Look," McKie reasoned. "I'm the best bait we have. They want me dead for some -- " "Back and now!" Bildoon said. "I'll have you brought in forcibly if you make that necessary." McKie subsided. He had never before experienced such a black mood from a caller. "What's wrong?" he asked. "You're bait wherever you are, McKie -- there or here. If they want you they'll come for you. I want you here where we can surround you with guards." "Something has happened?" "You're damn right something's happened. All those bullwhips we were examining have disappeared. The lab is a shambles and one of Tuluk's assistants is dead -- decapitated. And we've lost the head." "Ahhhhh, damn," McKie said. Then: "I'm on my way." X bare stretch of floor in the anteroom of his quarters. A sharply defined orange cross light from windows in the next room stretched his shadow beside him like something lifeless from the night. In his hands he held the length of noose that remained after it had been cut in the closing of the jumpdoor. Damnable interference! That big Laclac with the raygen had been fast. And the Wreave with the holoscan had made a record through the jumpdoor -- no doubt of that. Authorities would start hunting back along his trail now, asking questions, showing the holoscan of his face. Cheo's jeweled eyes glittered with shards of light. He could almost hear the BuSab operatives. Do you recognize this Pan Spechi? The Pan Spechi equivalent of a chuckle, a rumbling grunt, shook him. Fat lot of good the search would do them. No friend or acquaintance from the old days would be likely to recognize this face, now that the medics had changed it. Oh, the bridge of the nose and the set of the eyes were similar but... Cheo shook his head. Why was he worrying? No one -- absolutely no one -- was going to stop him from destroying the Caleban. And after that all these conjectures would be academic. He sighed heavily. His hands gripped the length of rope so tightly that his muscles ached. It took IF him several heartbeats of effort to release them. He climbed to his feet, threw the severed rope at a wall. A flailing end of it lashed a chairdog which whimpered sibilantly through its atrophied vocal structure. Cheo nodded to himself. He had to get the guards away from the Caleban or the Caleban away from the guards. He rubbed the scars on his forehead, hesitated. Was that a sound behind him? Slowly he turned, lowered his hand. He gasped. Mliss Abnethe stood in the doorway to the outer hall. The orange light created embers in the pearl sheathing of her gown. Her face held back anger, fear and the grievous murmurings of her psyche. "How long have you been there?" he asked, trying to keep his voice steady. "Why?" She stepped into the room, closed the door. ' "What have you been doing?" "Fishing," he said. She swept the room with her insolent gaze, saw the pile of whips in a corner. They were thrown over something vaguely round and hairy. A wet red stain crept onto the floor from beneath the pile. She paled, whispered, "What's that?" "Get out of here, Mliss." "What have you been doing?" she shrieked, whirling on him. I should tell her -- I should really tell her... I've been working to save our lives," he said. "You've killed someone, haven't you?" "He didn't suffer," Cheo said, his voice tired. "But you -- " "What's one more death among he asked. By all the devils of Gowachin, she was a tiresome bitch. "Cheo, I'm afraid." Why did she have to whimper like that? "Calm yourself," he said. "I've a plan to separate the Caleban from her guardians. When we achieve that we can proceed with her destruction and the thing's done." Mliss swallowed. "She suffers. I know she does." "That's nonsense. You've heard her deny it. She doesn't even know what pain means. No referents." "But what if we're wrong? What if it's just a misunderstanding?" He advanced on her, stood glaring over her. "Mliss, do you have any idea of how much we'll suffer if we fail?" She shuddered. Presently, her voice almost normal, she asked, "What's your plan?" from every nerve ending. He stood with Tuluk in the Wreave's lab. The place should have been comfortingly familiar but McKie felt as though the walls had been removed, opening the lab onto boundless space from which attack could come. No matter which way he turned, his back was exposed to menace. Abnethe and her friends were getting desperate. The fact of desperation said she was vulnerable. If only he could understand her vulnerability. Where was she vulnerable? What was her weakness? And where had she hidden herself? "This is very strange material," Tuluk said, straightening from the bench where he'd been examining the silvery rope. "Very strange." "What's strange about it?" "It cannot exist." "But it's right there." McKie pointed. "I can see that, my friend." Tuluk extruded a single mandible, scratched thoughtfully at the right lip of his face slit. One orange eye became visible as he turned, glanced at McKie. "Well?" McKie said. "The only planet where this material could have been grown ceased to exist several millennia ago," Tuluk said. "There was only one place -- a peculiar combination of chemistry and solar energy -- " "You've got to be mistaken. The stuff's right there." "The Archer's eye," Tuluk said. "You recall the story of the nova there?" McKie cocked his head to one side, thought for a moment. Then: "I've read about it, yes." "The planet was called Rap," Tuluk said. "This is a length of Rapvine." "Rapvine?" "You've heard of it?" "I don't believe so." "Yes, well -- it's strange stuff. Has a relatively short life span. o IF among its other peculiar characteristics. Another thing -- the ends don't fray even when it's cut. See?" Tuluk plucked several strands from the cut end, released them. They snapped back into position. "The phenomenon was called intrinsic attraction. There's been considerable speculation about it. I'm now in a position to -- " "Short life," McKie interrupted. "How short?" "No more than fifteen or twenty standard years under the most ideal conditions." "But the planet -- " "Millennia ago, yes." McKie shook his head to clear it. His eyes scanned the length of silvery rope suspiciously. "Obviously somebody found how to grow the stuff someplace other than Rap." "Perhaps. But they've managed to keep it a secret all this time." "I don't like what I think you're thinking," McKie said. "That's the most convoluted statement I've ever heard you make," Tuluk said. "It's meaning is clear enough, however. You believe I'm considering the possibility of time travel or -- " "Impossible," McKie snapped. "I've been engaged in a most interesting mathematical analysis of this problem," Tuluk said. "Numbers games aren't going to help us." "Your behavior is most unMcKie," Tuluk said. "Irrational. Therefore, I'll try not to burden your mind with too much of my symbolic construction. It is, however, more than a game for -- " "Time travel," McKie said. "Nonsense." "Our habitual forms of perception tend to interfere with the thinking processes required for analysis of this problem," Tulik said. "Thus, I discard these modes of thought." "Such as?" "If we examine the series relationships, what do we have? We have a number of point-dimensions in space. Abnethe occupies a position on a specific planet, as does the Caleban. We are given the actuality of contact between the two points, a series of events." "So?" "We must assume a pattern to these point-contacts." "Why? They could be random examp -- " "Two specific planets whose movements describe coherent patterns in space. A pattern, a rhythm. Otherwise Abnethe and her crew would be attacking with more frequency. We are confronted by a system which defies conventional analysis. It has temporal rhythm translatable into point-series rhythm. It is spatial and'temporal." McKie felt the attraction of Tuluk's argument as a force lifting his mind out of a cloud. "Some form of reflection, maybe?" he asked. "It doesn't have to be Time trav -- " "This is not a fugue," Tuluk objected. "A simple quadratic equation achieves no eliptical functions here. Ergo, we are dealing with linear relationships." "Lines," McKie whispered. "Connectives." "Eh? Oh, yes. Linear relationships which describe moving surfaces across some form or forms of dimension. We cannot be sure of the Caleban's dimensional outlook but our own is another matter." had moved into an extremely thin air of abstractions. But the Wreave's argument held an inescapable elegance. "We can treat all forms of space as quantities determined by other quantities," Tuluk said. "We have methods for dealing with such forms when we wish to solve for unknowns." McKie murmured, "N-dimension points." "Precisely. We first consider our data as a series of measurements which define moving points, remembering that they also define the space between such points." McKie nodded. "A classic jfold extended aggregate." "Now you begin to sound like the McKie familiar to me. An aggregate of n dimensions, to be sure. And what is time in such a problem? Time we know to be an aggregate of one dimension. But we are given, you'll recall, a number of point-dimensions in space and time." McKie whistled soundlessly, admiring the Wreave's logic. Then: "We either have one continuous variable in the problem or n continuous variables. Beautiful!" "Just so. And by reduction through the infinity calculus we discover we are dealing with two systems containing n body properties." "That's what you found?" "That's what I found. It can only follow that the point-contacts of our problem have their separate existence within different frameworks of time. Ergo, Abnethe occupies a dimension of time other than that of the Beachball. Inescapable conclusion." "We may not be dealing with time travel phenomena in the classic fictional sense," McKie said. "These subtle differences the Caleban sees -- these connectives, these threads -- " "Spiderwebs imbedded in many universes," Tuluk said. "Perhaps. Let's assume individual lives spin these web threads." "Movements of matter undoubtedly spin them, too." "Agreed. And they cross. They unite. They intersect. They combine in mysterious ways. They become tangled. Some of the web threads are stronger than others. I experienced this entanglement, you know, when I placed the call that saved your life. I can imagine some of these threads being rewoven, combined, aligned -- what have you -- to recreate conditions of long past times in our dimensions. Might be a relatively simple problem for a Caleban. The Caleban might not even understand the re-creation the way we do." "I'll buy that." "What would it take?" Tuluk mused. "A certain poignancy of experience, perhaps -- something IF that imparts sufficient strength to the lines, threads, webs of the past for them to be picked up, manipulated to reproduce the original setting and its contents." "We're just tossing words back and forth," McKie objected. "How could you reweave an entire planet or the space around -- " "Why not? What do we know of the powers involved? To a crawling insect three of your strides may be a day's journey." McKie felt himself being convinced in spite of native caution. "It is true," he agreed, "that the Caleban S'eye gives us the power to walk across light years." "Such a common exploit that we no longer even wonder at the enormous energies it must require. Think what such a journey would mean to our hypothetical insect. And we may be getting the merest glimpse of Caleban powers." "We should never have accepted the S'eye," McKie said. "We had metabolic suspension. We should have told the Calebans to go jump in their collective connectives!" "And deny ourselves real-time control of our universe? Not on your life, McKie. What we should have done is test the gift first. We should have probed for dangers. We were too bedazzled by it, though." McKie lifted his left hand to scratch his eyebrow, felt a prickling of danger. It rushed up his spine, exploded in a blow against his arm. He felt pain there -- something bit through to bone. Despite the shock he whirled, saw a Palenki arm upraised with a glittering blade. The arm came through a narrow vortal tube. Visible through the opening were a Palenki turtle head and, beside it, the right side of a Pan Spechi face -- purple scar on the forehead, one faceted emerald eye. For a suspended moment McKie saw the blade begin its descent toward his face, knew it was going to strike before his shocked muscles could respond. He felt metal touch his forehead, saw the orange glow of a raygen beam stab past his face. McKie stood frozen, locked in stillness. It was a tableau. He saw surprise on the Pan Spechi face, saw a severed Palenki arm begin its tumble to the floor, still clutching a shattered metal remnant. McKie's heart was pounding as though he'd been running for an hour. He felt hot wetness spread across his left temple. It ran down his cheek, along his jaw, into his collar. His arm throbbed and he saw blood dripping from his fingertips. The S'eye jumpdoor had winked out of existence. Someone was beside him then, pressing a compress against his head where the metal had touched. Touched? Once more he had prepared himself for sudden death at a Palenki's hands. Tuluk, he saw, was bending to retrieve the metal remnant. "That's another nick of time I've escaped," McKie said. Surprisingly, there was no tremor in his voice. The accused found no end to his crime -- ffo beginning to justice! T HE horses drew a tight curve into the night, jostling the coach's occupants against polished mahogany sills. A single lantern, its yellow flame high upon the wind, clanged as it swayed. Above the whirring of the rising dust, the Prisoner groaned brokenly in his sleep. "We've an important one here," said the Watchman, hearing the Prisoner's groan. "Aye, indeed," said the Coachman, his gaze far upon the stars. The reins jiggled lightly within his gloves. "What time is it?" The Watchman peeked within his cloak. "Eighteen-thirteen," he said. "A time of peace," said the Coachman, glancing over his shoulder, looking back into the night. Shreds of fog began to swirl in place of the dust as a sudden clicking of tight cobbles sounded beneath the hooves and wheels. Overhead, the stars flickered and were quietly gone. The Watchman checked the time. "Nineteen-thirty-nine," he said. "A time of great turmoil," said the Coachman and there was distant thunder beyond the mist. He hurried the horses and several drops of rain shone upon his leather cape. Again the Prisoner stirred in his sleep. They sped over smooth concrete pavement but the coach shook with a fresh torrent of wind. Tinkling sounds of shattered glass fell and watchdog rifles barked high above, where moments earlier there had been tranquil stars. Sirens screamed on both sides of the road. The horses shied from the yells of an advancing mob. "Nineteen-sixty-eight," said the Watchman. "Oh," said the Coachman and gripped the reins very tightly. The coach and horses clattered on with two of the riders drowsy and the other asleep. One of the men, stirring within the flowing mist, cried out against the night. The Watchman yawned behind a polite hand. "It's getting late," he said, shifting upon his seat. "A long ride," said the Coachman. the shadows and mist of the orange and black chamber of the Time Judge the Prisoner spat upon the flagstoned floor. He felt an urgent need to spit at the enrobed figure behind the great hulking rostrum but the target was beyond his practiced range. He tried anyway. He sensed the constant rage within himself welling up to even greater levels as he clamped his eyes shut and steeled his rigid muscles against the imprisoning bonds in a desperate effort to hold and savor his hate. For several seconds he succeeded, until the pressurized phlegm seeped out in a low whining scream. "Administer a two-minute tranquilizer," said the solemn voice of the Time Judge. This was done before the high-ceilinged echoes of Judge and Prisoner had subsided. I The man bound within the wheelchair opened his eyes to watch the grim shadow above him. A languid mist curled about the high stone rostrum but there was a faint orange glow far beyond the bench. The Prisoner slowly relaxed his manacled arms and legs. His mouth remained fixed in a grimace. "Out of all of my travels through Endless Time your case is the most terrible," said the Time Judge, shaking his head. "Yours is the most heinous, the most horrendous, crime of all. All of Time must shudder at your wicked presence." The Prisoner continued to relax perceptibly but there was still much hatred within the room. "Even through your violent hate you must be made to understand your just fate." The Time Judge pointed a long gnarled stick toward the Prisoner. "Woe be unto you, for the punishment must fit the crime." A silence. "I have traveled through all of Time," the Judge continued, "desperately righting the wrongs of past and future injustices, exchanging the minds and souls of the falsely condemned with those whose evil deeds cry out for vengeance. Now, at last, I have found yours, the ultimate crime, which will match the most pronounced injustice of all." As the Time Judge paused, the Prisoner stirred. The period of tranquilization was nearly completed. The mist suddenly shifted, momentarily thinning about the Judge's bench, but the Prisoner turned his head and would not look. "Do you have anything to say?" asked the somber figure in the black cape. "Go to hell!" replied the redfaced man before him. The fog stirred again, and the hooded figure placed an orange square of cloth upon his own head. "According to the Dictates of Timeless Justice, let him be so punished," ordered the Time Judge with a slight shudder of dark robes. Within seconds the portable instruments were applied, and the Prisoner again closed his eyes upon his own intensifying hatred. When he awoke with blinking eyes, he found himself erect and walking. They took him before Pontius Pilate -- who washed his hands.  IF  The loving aliens came -- and there went the neighborhood! phone, confirming an appointment with his dentist, when he first noticed the black shadow at the corner of his peripheral vision. He gave it little thought. This kind of ocular illusion usually could be traced to eyestrain, digestive problems or loss of sleep, to minute floating fragments of eye pigment or a sudden twist of the head -- to almost any of a number of causes one could name. Persistence of the phenomenon finally triggered some degree of worry. Jake found himself beginning to look behind furniture, inspecting dark corners of the room, usually feeling a bit foolish after each flurry of searching. But he could not restrain the urge to repeat the action -- the apparition seemed substantial and it moved with definiteness. There came a time when more surface of Jake's eyes caught the shadow just as it whisked behind a waste basket. Aha -- the thing is real... Jake also whisked to the waste basket and lifted it. Nothing so tangible as a shape with dimensions lurked there -- nothing but shadow. It was then that he resolved to phone his oculist. The thing could not have escaped if it had been as large as Jake's eyes had measured it in the microsecond allowed by its speed. The object would have had to be at least the size of a tarantula and there was no crawling space for anything of that bulk in the corner behind the basket. He strode to his telephone and arranged for the examination. But he was not to take it. A dental appointment was first on Jake's schedule -- and fated to be last. Each day, while waiting for these two appointed dates, Jake saw the shadow. It seemed closer to him at every appearance. But he no longer dropped his current activities to chase the manifestation. Like most humans he had bucked his problem off to someone else -- in this case the oculist. Let the eye doctor take care of the shadow -- he would charge enough. So, if Jake sat at his typewriter when the fuzzy dark thing drifted into his field of vision he shrugged. If he happened to be too lazy to work he continued to allow cranium, vertebrae, coccyx and tarsus to press dents into the upholstery of a sofa, not even trying to catch the phantom object in the full focus of his gaze. And one day it was there on the arm of Jake's sofa and he felt it -- not as a solid body but as a touch of spring zephyr on neck, then on cheek and finally at the edge of his ear. He did not detect its progress inside the ear, except in the form of a slight puff of air. The episode seemed so real that a tingling chill shook Jake's spine. IF He drew a long breath and lay back, wondering whether a psychiatrist would not be a better man to carry the problem than an oculist. Nothing occurred for half an hour. Then, like a guitar string suddenly twanged, the entire length of his body jerked into tense vibration. In Jake's mind began a wild sound and his vision blanked out completely. Jake scrambled to his feet. He stood swaying, dizzy, blind, only half realizing his own throat was not uttering the sharp burst of excited squealing he heard inside his skull. The noise stopped suddenly and a tactile sensation substituted itself, impressions of momentary points of cold touching areas inside his head with extreme lightness. These sensory contacts skipped about, first in the upper part of the skull, then behind his eyes, then tickling his inner ears. His sight finally returned. The vertigo left. Jake faced a possibility that he was skating on the edge of some type of mental disorder. He thought hard, wrestling with a new fear, trying to calm his nerves. When he could hold the phone again with reasonable steadiness he made his third appointment -- with a psychiatrist, thinking ruefully of the hundred dollar-plus raid on his budget the three engagements would undoubtedly create. Jake had no experience of shrinks beyond vague rumors. But he knew that if the whirligig in his head required treatment his first cost estimate could have some extra zeroes trailing behind it. And perhaps the cause might be physical -- rebellion within some body organ, malfunction of some hidden glands. Possibly he should add a date with an internist for a complete physical examination. He groaned, mentally watching a computer subtract dollars from his bank hoard, and decided to wait first for verdicts from dentist, eye man, and head-shrinker. But Jake's odd symptoms faded even as he stood debating. His shoulders straightened and his habitual optimism returned. He ceased to picture himself as fodder for hospital or mental institution. Lunchtime came and went; the daily battle between desire to nap and need to finish the next installment of his syndicated column was fought and won by reluctant ambition -- half the work stint lay imprinted upon white bond. And then a strange urge grabbed him. T HE impulse was as strong as a pregnant woman's yearning for some exotic food. Jake found himself irresistibly wanting to leave his typewriter, leave his room, leave the house. Destination? Purpose? Not the slightest notion. And he discovered he had acted upon the desire with such singleminded concentration that he had not been aware of any ambulatory exertion when he awoke from an almost hypnotic state to find himself on the street. Driven by the same hidden mental force, Jake turned toward Mockingbird Heights, a heavily wooded section south of town which the local conservation society's efforts had pressured the city council into preserving in its natural state. And a frightening phenomenon grew in Jake's mind. His conscious self seemed to be dividing into two entities. The two halves waged stubborn battle in the arena of his skull. He began to talk to himself, gibberish at first, sometimes aloud, sometimes with only the mental sounding of language syllables. But words separated themselves finally. Tree, he heard in his head. Up in the tree -- up in the tree. Let s go to the trees. Morton Koenigsby and Harriet Tarbell rounded a corner right before him. Jake intended to greet them with. Hi, there. Don't tell me quitting time exodus from the city has begun... But the stronger hemisphere of his mental existence changed tongue movements into, "I have to go walk under the trees." Jake moved on, acutely aware of two puzzled stares turned toward his receding form. He felt hot waves of embarrassment flowing to his face. What the hell is happening to me? The answer came immediately: Peace, contentment, happy life in a new world. Complete cacophony followed. The two halves of himself joined in desperate battle. Jake tried to think: I must be going crazy. But the sentence came out: Crapiece, pretty wrrzi -- and crashed into head-splitting noise. What seemed the sane segment of himself won temporarily by resorting to wild physical effort, activating lips and tongue and vocalizing loudly. "What the devil am I talking about?" "Ask somebody else, buddy," a cab driver passing by at the moment answered and moved along, muttering "Kook!" to himself to the tune of his rattling lunch box. The war inside Jake's skull escalated to a new tempo with screaming sentences from both halves impinging upon each other and interlocking. Conflicting syllables combined until mental shouting became nothing comprehensible. Brackaboo bubil high baloohigh in the la laloo high in that tree. Jake spoke aloud, trying to regain control of a runaway mind by physically forcing nonsense into understandable speech. IF But his tongue said back to him, "La-la-la-bla-la!" Jake walked with a gray mist in front of his eyes, only dimly aware that he turned from Edgewater Boulevard and crossed a meadow skirting dense woodland. Strangely, his steps were surer now. The mist cleared from his eyes and both warring voices retreated to the innermost corridors of his skull, with the one Jake still thought of as his own becoming increasingly less forceful. The part of his mind that was himself was being squeezed into a tiny corner. Jake sensed certainty that it would eventually cease to exist in spite of its determined resistance to some alien invasion. Another odd phenomenon came to the front of Jake's attention -- a queer sharpening of his senses. For the first time since the lazy days of his childhood he smelled again the decaying leaf mold, heard the windsong, listened to the groan of tree trunks bending and the scrunch of branches scraping against neighbors. Ecstatic tremors swept through him as he touched the rough bole of a pine and his finger traced with sensual delight long elliptical whorls of brown bark. Vaguely Jake heard the lesser part of his mind crying, What's happening to me? But another mental voice overrode the question, repeating several times, God, what a beautiful planet! A beauty all its own. Without surprise Jake experienced strong excitement in the sight and taste and smell and feel of his surroundings, as if he encountered each familiar component for the first time. He saw dark shadows between gold patches of late sunlight drifting earthward through filtering leaves and shivered with an ague of awe and wonderment. What a beautiful planet -- what a strangely different world... Different from what? the stubborn, walled-in corner of Jake's mind tried to answer and was squeezed into an even smaller space by the other personality. H E sensed some sort of plan just beyond reach of thought, a purpose as intangible as swamp steam, but it took him deeper into the woods where shade became, blued and distances misty. He walked in a random search pattern, looking for something not yet clear to him. He felt it to be hidden in a crack behind peeling bark and stopped at intervals to examine trunks when configuration touched a chord of familiarity. The oddness of feeling this way about a forest he had scarcely bothered to penetrate before today lay as a cloudy and fading figment in his mind. Something he loved drew him forward, a mission that held within its vague purpose some sacred duty, although he was also dimly aware of rebellious negation from somewhere not yet quite smothered under that portion of his mind which had seized control. Jake hunted for a specific tree. He now knew this much. He must find them. He could not replace the pronoun with an identity more definite. Now! There was the tree, a fir, heavy with shadow under drooping branches which swept almost to needle-carpeted floor. He crawled under a canopy of boughs to the shade blackened trunk and, in the artificially created twilight, felt carefully from branch to branch. And then he found them, tiny balls, light as the fluff from a cottonwood tree. They absorbed light strangely, as if they had no substance -- they were wisps of black cloud so light that his tactile senses proved too gross to register any weight or solidity. Yet they rolled on to his palm, behaving as so many minute marbles might have. He could pick one up between thumb and finger but he could not feel it. He looked at them, spherical spiderwebs of substance, changing color to blend with the hues of his palm. And for a moment that silent, walled-in corner of his mind seemed to expand and prompted a thought. Td better kill them. And immediately he felt almost physically choked. Following that came a great love for the ephemeral things -- it flooded his mind. He adored them, precious little cells of embryo life. No! sounded deep under this wave of emotion. Yes ! came another sharp whisper, still recognizable as separate from his Earth self. There was a stirring, a struggle somewhere in the far corners of his mind, a pale mental image trying to force itself outward, a flimsy figment of his personality that insisted that these tiny balls would be so easy to mash. And silent thunder answered again, No! They are alien -- they should be destroyed. But the mind-sound of these words came faintly and full of uncertainty and an immediate negation covered them with harsh syllables. Jake suddenly knew his duty. This was his planet, the world he had been seeking, his new home. These filmy balls were his fellow travelers from a universe where mammalian dwellings were dying. This new planet swarmed with fresh homes for his people, warm, blood-filled life easy to occupy. He must find a safe resting place for each of his brother travelers, even as he had now found one for himself. No! cried that restricted corner of Jake's mind, not himself -- myself -- not myself... IF But again strong thunder drowned the protest with: Go out now where mammals of this plan et walk. Place a tiny sphere upon the flesh of neck or cheek... Jake was automatically threading his way among the trees as these ideas formed. Somehow, with a mind that was still neither entirely alien nor bereft of his old self, Jake Terrell began to think himself back into Earthly routines. The dentist -- that's where Tm going. Then he began to see some humor in trading one of his precious little bits of gossamer for a tooth Good joke on an old college pal. Til give him one of these. He'll give me a hunk of silver in my mouth -- I'll give him a new kind of life... Somehow, too, Jake resisted pressure that crowded upon him every moment of the journey toward his dental appointment, an urge that caused his hand to reach out  unconsciously toward every human being who came close to him, an aching desire to leave one of his treasured, almost invisible cells upon each neck. But the dentist was his best friend, his good old Billy Marbry. He could not let his friend down. Billy Marbry deserved to be the first convert to a new world. the suppressed excitement of a ten-year-old weaving his way along the line entering a circus tent. His mind was brimful with love, worship for these tiny spheres of misty darkness cuddled so carefully in his jacket pocket. One part of Jake's mind echoed with laughter. A very small isolated segment wailed, What am I doing? But that small cry weakened with each repetition and finally ceased. Dim light and discreet decor of the office had never before seemed so appropriate to him. There was warmth here from the dark-shaded lamps. Huddling shadows heightened the mystery of his mission, made a richly ceremonial setting for the gift of a seed to his friend. Jake could think of nothing but the treasure about to be transferred from the diaphanous group in his pocket. The receptionist said, "Doctor Marbry will see you now. Mister Terrell." Jake's laugh was the sudden short sound of a triumphantly happy being. He fumbled in his jacket as he walked toward the inner door, picked out one ethereal spore and strode into brightness of sterile surfaces. Billy Marbry met Jake at the door, chart in hand. "Let's see, you're mainly after a cleaning today, eh, Jake?" Jake laughed, again, the sound almost a whinny. "A real cleaning. The start of a clean sweep of the whole world." The dentist looked up sharply. "Drinking this early in the day, old buddy?" "No. Just standing on the threshhold of destiny." Jake chuckled again. "Want to join me, old pal?" He lifted a pinpoint of gossamer from his pocket. Just a handclasp -- or a brotherly paw on the dentist's shoulder -- just as easy as that to begin a new order on Earth. Jake felt the cell squirm as the warmth of his hand enclosed it. That did it -- hand on shoulder, a touch on his good old buddy's neck as he laughed. "Be a good guy and leave me enough teeth to chew my soup at least." Jake withdrew his hand and followed the dentist into his torture chamber. Secretly Jake was still laughing and watching Bill Marbry closely for some sign that the cell had reached the man's brain. Smugly he sat in the big chair and fitted his head back against the padded neck rest. His eyes remained fixed in a cold stare of alien intensity on the doctor. Marbry muttered, "Is something the matter? You feel well?" Jake said, "Sure. Why?" He scanned the doctor's face intently. "Your eyes," said the dentist. "I was once in a party that treed a cougar and I'll swear the look in that big cat's eyes was exactly like yours was a second ago. I felt like running for cover." Both men laughed. Jake said, "Maybe the cougar thought you were going to stick a drill in its mouth." They laughed again. "Hurry along with any excavating you need to do before I get scared enough to eat you up," Jake said. Again both laughed. But Jake's eyes watched, aware that for a second the infinitesimal imprisoned section of his mind tried to scream. He settled back in the chair and meekly allowed the nurse's white hands to fasten a napkin around his neck. He held rigidly still while Marbry probed and clicked various instruments against enamel. And constantly he watched, waiting for first signs of that sudden struggle he knew would begin inside the doctor's skull within the next thirty minutes. Marbry withdrew the probe after one last nerve-wrenching dig. "You've got a cavity and it's going to go pretty deep," he told Jake. "You'll need some novocaine." "That's fine with me. Doc." Jake chuckled, feeling with that keen, expanding new mind of his a joyous kinship with this mammal that would soon awaken to the mastery of a blood brother. He sat chuckling softly to himself (Please turn to page # ) IF i...but men are not necessarily brothers T HE small coasting shull that Antor Ref had chosen for his northward journey along the Inland Passage of Slor's East Coast, was picking its way through a colorful plethora of similar stubbymasted craft, tiny kupps, oaredor lateen-rigged, and wallowing huge cargo drogs. The forty-mile width of Nap Bay shone white with the chalky paleness of rocky bottom and circling headlands. A large-winged craft, issuing an annoying buzzing roar, circled unevenly above the approaching lesser docks. Antor ignored it. The Words of Malan had declared that men do not fly. The truth was there for all to read. Aliens from Erth and unbelieving deviants might think they could emulate the birds. But they were deceived. Such delusions were harmful and unnatural. Only the Words had truth. Waiting at the docking place was the rotund furry bulk of Hwat Ten. Hwat was wearing a scarletbarred forest cloak to his knees and his pinkish-yellow body fur was groomed and shining. His vertically slitted, red-brown eyes shone with welcome. Antor Ref sprang over the rail to the great flat stones of bluish fedrock, his arms outstretched. Their hands grasped the bushy hair tufts above two sets of earcups and tugged joyfully until the tears started. Tears and laughter. "You've grown fat, brother," Antor said. "And you leaner and more wrinkled of belly and neck," cried out Hwat Ten. Both guffawed. They gave each other an affectionate second hairloosening tug. Tears streaming afresh, they bared their broad short-stubbed teeth in happy grins and broke apart. Antor's crimson eyes looked into Hwat's duller brownish eyes and his silvery furred arm linked with the shorter man's pinkly furred one. "Five long years, brother," Hwat said, "since we trained together in Hri." Antor looked around the dock and back at the docking shull. Now that the excitement of greeting Hwat was lessening his caution returned. Apparently no one was paying them any heed. The screaming of charcoal-winged offal birds wheeling overhead and the slap-slap of chop against the barnacled piers covered their words. "Five long, lonely years," agreed Antor, straightening his thin bony body to its full four feet. "Although I have been fortunate in acquiring several hundred followers -- in limited cells of twenty of course -- these Slorish eaters of filth are not to my taste as true fellows." He thought that Hwat's eyes chilled as he spoke. "Do not the Words of Malan say to hail all men as Fellows?" IF Hwat murmured. "Are 'not all men to be brothers?" "Of course -- of course. You know I believe all that. It is simply that the old friends, the early memories, are closer." "I, too," Hwat confessed, "in the early days of exile here, felt hostility. Most of these Slorish are happy and prosperous. It was difficult to bring them to understand that discipline and austerity and sacrifice are so important. "But now all is well. I have found many sincere and loyal fellows. I have married a wonderful woman of the city." "You, a Fellow of the Words -- " choked out Antor. "You forget that both of us, Antor, despite our common brother, Tanab Gon, are burdened with the bodies of Slorish natives." "I have not forgotten that, whatever my present exterior," said Antor Ref coldly, "I am a Hri. In my exile I have acquired two female slaves, both black-furred Hris." "And they know you only as a scant-furred Slorish gorb , a maggot -- a crawler in filth -- and their master." An angry pulse beat in Antor' s short, thick neck. But he kept his silence. Already he could see that Hwat Ten was corrupted. His tolerance of the thin-blooded Slorish way of life -- even to his mating with one of them -- revealed how far he had deviated. "I have done well for the Fellows of Malan," he said, breaking the ugly little silence. "My cover of coasting shulls and heavy land freighting has expanded. Eighty, shulls and fifty outfits of twenty beasts to each six-wheeled yenn pour a mounting flood of treasure into our Order." "I, too," said Hwat Ten. "From the small weekly printing my funds acquired I have expanded. We print a hundred books and two daily news records, here and in Jalip, opposite the Erthport island of Zurn. We supply thousands of pamphlets and small booklets lauding the life of austerity, sacrifice of animal joy and devoted adherence to the Words of Malan. And we send much treasure to the Fellows in Hri." Antor allowed himself a noiseless inward snort. From the wellpadded appearance, the expensive scarlet-barred cloak of green and the glossy porskin sandals on Hwat's four-toed feet, not all the treasure was sent to Hri. Of course a certain amount of reserve against sudden emergencies was essential. The Fellows of Malan, two thousand miles to the south, had no conception of the exigencies of trade. A third, occasionally a fourth, of the profits, was safely put aside. A comfortable feeling it gave to a dedicated man like himself. When the Order once again regained ascendancy in the councils of the alienated continents of Slor, Keth, Rinf and Foil, he would be in a position to further their ambitions. Then the Fellows would appreciate his wisdom in secretly retaining this contingency fund. Hwat Ten brushed at his sleek fur impatiently. "We'll get along to my home," he said, "as soon as your luggage comes off the shull. We have several years to catch up." A burly old seaman with mangy patches of whitish bare flesh marring his pale brown fur came off the shull, carrying two faded black sacks with corded straps for handles. He dropped them wordlessly at Antor's feettmd went back aboard. "Why do you suppose Tanab Gon has summoned us to this meeting?" he said to Hwat as each of them shouldered a bag. Hwat shook his tufted pinkish head. "When we board the boat tomorrow," he said, "at the harbor east of the Erthport enclave, we will soon learn." N OW that Antor Ref had eaten and was safely installed in his sleeping quarters Hwat could give some thought to his own possible future. He knew that a major crisis impended. The reunion with his almostbrother, Antor, had been a disaster. Five years ago the Fellows of Malan had given twenty brainstripped prisoners the complete memories of some of their most trusted and dedicated members. Both Antor and himself were, in everything but body, duplicates of the middle-aged historian Tanab Gon. A carefully edited resume of their bodies' former histories had been supplied and they had been allowed to "escape" to their native continents. Antor had treated Hwat's beloved Lilse with a boorishness Hwat found inexcusable. He had ignored giving the slightest polite tug at Lilse's lovely twin tufts of sun-glowing yellow hair and his bow of acknowledgment had been a fractional inclination of his silvery beaky head. They had not talked long after the evening meal. Hwat's barely repressed rage. had dried up his flow of words and the tall bony man from distant Itar, in South Slor, had soon fallen silent. The five years had come between them. Neither of them was what he once had been. Hwat knew that he was not. Both had changed -- Antor Ref to the extremes of racial and nationalistic intolerance to which many Fellows of Malan, regrettably, were addicted. Hwat, too, was different. He still believed in the basics of the Words of Malan: moderation in all things, a measure of austerity and discipline and wisdom and that all men are of one flesh despite their outward appearance. He had grown tolerIF ant according to the Words of Malan, yet the Fellows of Malan would damn him as deviant. "I do not care much for your guest," Lilse said softly into his ear. Hwat bounded up convulsively, his pulse surging hard. "You startled me," he confessed. Lilse smoothed his bushy fur and her soft hands toyed with the cuplike ears beneath them. "You have never mentioned him to me," she said. "Where did  you meet him? And why is he here?" Hwat had, of course, revealed nothing of his double identity to his marriage parfher. He was, to her, simply a Slorish citizen with a secret belief in the Words of Malan. Despite the banning of such study groups since the ejection of the Fellows ten years before, there were many secret students of Malan's century-old philosophy. "We were captives together," Hwat explained. "The Hri pirates enslaved us. Aboard ship fortunately. Antor Ref was a good comrade then. He has soured. But we escaped together -- and with us took a good amount of pirate loot." "You have never told me before how you gained your wealth," said Lilse, pouting as she curled the soft three feet of her rounded goldfurred body into his lap. "You must tell me the whole story." "Later when we have hours," Hwat said, stroking her back and breasts gently. "Tonight I must go to the sleeping platform at once. We leave early in the morning for Zurn." "I would love to go with you," Lilse said wistfully. "I would like to see the strange palaces and the giant Erthmen and their machines. But I know the customs of Slor forbid it." "I will bring you some of the printed fotocolor cards the Erthmen trade to us," Hwat promised. "If I owned one of the cameras they are teaching us to make you could see what I see there." "What are you to do there, my Hwat?" "Business of some sort. Antor Ref has scores of trading shulls and freighting lines. Expansion of his business I presume. He gave me for reference -- and I was glad to oblige an old comrade." "I do not like him," Lilse said fiercely. "I wish he had never come. I wish you would send him away. I hope you get sick and cannot go with him." Hwat laughed, baring his broad short teeth as widely as he assumed a proper lauh required. It was rather an empty laugh. He, too, wished he could avoid going to meet his brother and Fellow, Tanab Gon, tomorrow. He had found a good life here in Nap. "One does not brush off old friends so easily," he said. "He must be exhausted from the voyage up here. Irritable and sick. Tomorrow he may be more like the Antor Ref I recall." "I hate him," Lilse declared stoutly, scarlet eyes flashing. "You judge too soon," admonished Hwat. "Wait and see." But Hwat Ten was considering what was to befall with daylight. He determined to take a flat-holstered gas pistol, a double-barreled over-and-under weapon that fitted smoothly under his triple-layered body tunic and into the middle hollow of his chest. He would wear the usual dress dagger but he would exchange the two-foot sliver of inferior brittle gray metal for a tempered, gray-stained blade. He had not dueled or fired a weapon, either for sport or in anger for three years -- not since his marriage to Lilse -- but he had not forgotten all his old skills. Yet he would be slow. Better to avoid combat if at all possible -- but to be ready. the submersible's hatch into the stoutly compartmented hollow of the anchored cargo drog. The Fellows of Malan were not averse to the use of electrically -- or otherwise -- powered craft. In fact, before the coming of the accursed giant men from Erth they had possessed a monopoly over the control of such awesome powers. But they had always been discreet. Hidden power is always more effective than the visible. The unknown surpasses the known. And so the Fellows lodged their sleek swift submersibles within altered cargo drogs or inside caverns with underwater entrances. Their weaponry and their other complex hardware they camouflaged. With Tanab Gon came a shaggy black-furred native of Hri, mightily muscled and loyal to the death but with no great fire of reason in his gold-flecked green eyes. Orch was Tanab Gon's bodyguard. Orch was adept in the use of the sharpened twin daggers slung on his hips. His fists were clijbs. His fingers were like strangler's cords. His knees could snap a spine or a leg. "Seal the hatch," Tanab Gon ordered Orch, "and give me the locking widge." Tanab and Orch were alone aboard the six-man craft. If this secret mission proved successful he would need the extra space for the transport of urgently needed treasure and the recruits. Tanab pouched the widge and led the way to the upper deck, overlooking the hundred square miles of Zurn Bay's restless chop of waves. Off to the west the squat towers and expanding landing aprons of Erthport were visible. Even as he watched, a cargo ship thundered upward on fiery legs of atomic blast. He had timed it to the second. IF The two voluntary expatriates, his duplicated egos in these frailer, thin-furred Slorish outer husks, were ascending the wallowing ship's ladder. "Brother," he said. And again: "Brother," The tugging of the tufts above each pair of ears came next, his own coarse black hair receiving a double buffeting. Then the Fellows' touch of the elbows. "Come to the cabin prepared for us," said Tanab. "I have smoked terge flesh and roasted paddu roots ready for us there. And fermented terge milk, frozen and again awakened." "It will be like home again," Hwat said, rather weakly and Antor Ref nodded, unsmiling. Orch stood aside, his sly green eyes intent. He might know on the surface of his mind that these were trusted allies of his assigned master. But they were Slorish. Puny eaters of offal and cowards by name and nature. All Hri knew this. The chunky bodyguard regarded with suspicion even the men of the drog, all trusted men, many of them associate Fellows. Seated at last -- hard Hri stools grouped about the plain smoothscoured planks of the table -- Tanab Gon chewed a bit of blackened, smoke-reeking flesh and came directly to the business at hand. "Our control of the noble houses of Hri," he said, "has been badly crippled. The men of Erth have brought flowing black fuel from beneath the ground to warm us. They trade for our gems and the peculiar white metal they desire machines and sealed plastic or bonded earth living shelters. "Our people have grown soft and luxury loving. The Words of Malan are passed over or forgotten. Even as our enclaves in the four continents were taken from us -- so it may soon be in our native land." "It is so," said Antor Ref gloomily. "The Words of Malan are meaningless to the well fed and the prosperous. Only to the hungry and the miserable do they bring blessed comfort." "We must find new ways to teach the wisdom of Malan," Hwat said eagerly. "We three have the same mind. We are brothers and well versed in the Words. We have experience in three ways of life. Was this why you brought us together, brother?" Tanab Gon eyed his guests. What sickly ill-formed men were these Slorish. Hard to remember that they were both himself -- or had been five years before. Then they had owned identical memories and attitudes. Now, as the increasingly faulty intelligence of the Fellows reported, Hwat Ten was rapidly becoming a deviationist. He must be forced to return to proper ways. And Antor Ref was reputed to conform to the Words outwardly but to be siphoning away the wealth of the Order. For Antor there would be a severe reckoning should this prove true. All men changed, he reflected. He was not the simple zealot he had been years past. Then he had served the bumble-headed leaders of the Order with unswerving loyalty. Now he knew them for the bunglers and bumblers they were. their basic troubles, would they? With him leading the Fellows of Malan and with the aid of lesser men -- Fellows like these two, his submerged twin selves -- the ascendancy of the Order over all the ten continents of Okar might be restored. "We have a task that can rid us forever of our greatest foe," said Tanab Gon. "The Ancients of our Order refused to listen to me. But for the good of the Order we must act. We are of one mine, we three. And Orch will obey without question. "A fact accomplished, brothers. They will accept success. We will have honor and respect -- be given leadership." He saw that the faces of the two thinly furred men were drawn and suspicious, the thin, corded face and the fat, normally smiling face. "What is this disapproved venture?" asked Antor Ref. "The destruction of Erthport and the entire island of Zurn," Tanab said. He looked toward the door, guarded by the coarse-furred Hri. "The cowardly giants flew armed conflict and war. They will never dare set up a new free port." "Not so," Hwat cried out, scowling. "Many more great spacecraft would come to retaliate." "They are but illusionists," Antor Ref scoffed. "They do not really fly or traverse in emptiness. They are masters of charlatanry and mass hypnotism. But to destroy them would bring death to those of us involved." "You are wrong about the Erthmen," Tanab said. "We know they come from offplanet. We know that the heavens are not of brassy ether with niches and paths. The Words of Malan came in riddles t)at only true scholars finally solved." AntorRef's crimson eyes blazed. He rose to his feet. "The Words say clearly that man is never to fly." "By his own power," Tanab explained shortly. "We captured an Erth giant whose wing crashed into one of our mountains. The mind strip told the story. And we sent the memories of Resl Mer back to Erthport with his body." "They have deceived you," Antor said bitterly. "You are as much a deviationist as is Hwat. Yes, and worse. I will not listen to any more lies against the Words." "I agree with Antor Ref," Hwat Ten said stiffly. "Not for the reaIF sons he gives. Your words are reasonable. I can see that the Erthmen fly. I have flown with a friend -- a Slorish merchant. But I will not help you to blow up this island and Erthport because much greater woes would come upon all our peoples. You must forget this mad dream. Learn to live with Erthmen and learn how to teach the Words of Malan without coercion and subversion." The two Slorishmen turned away from Tanab. They headed toward the cabin door. Orch stood there stiffly, his eyes hot and wary, his strong fingers gripping his cloak-hidden daggers. "Do not allow them to pass, Orch," Tanab said crisply. had his fingers well into the grips of his holstered weapon. "Consider," Tanab Gon was pleading, "the quick solution of all our miseries. I have acquired four thermonuclear devices through the knowledge of the captured Erth flyer. We shall plant them at appropriate spots with' a timing device that will permit us to be miles away, aboard the submersible when the destruction occurs. Forget our ideological differences. We are one. We are more truly brothers than any born of woman." "Out of my way," Antor Ref warned the black-furred man. In his hand was a stub-barreled gun. "I, too, am armed," Tanab Gon  nan  Iran A to lemria This month, the Berkley Travel Service offers a variety of trips (all good), from that venerable fantastic voyage in itraising trek through Old Lemuria with the mighty-thewed Valkarthian in if you fancy it, a swing through the Return flights not guaranteed. Lin Carter (X#, #) Keith Laumer (X#, #) (X#, #) (X#, #) Next month: Heinlein, Hubbard, Harrison! If your newsstand or bookstore is out of stock, order any of these (list price plus a dime postage) from: # Madison Avenue, N.Y., N.Y. # Purchasers of our books have complete freedom of choice In pricing these books for resale to others. announced. Turning slightly, Hwat saw that the dark-furred Fellow cradled a four-barreled gas-powered weapon in his arms. "Let us talk further," Tanab pleaded. Hwat thought of lovely Lilse and the pleasant life he had come to appreciate in the city of Nap. After the harsher climate and planned austerities of barren Hri the life he had known in Slor was close to ideal. His mind had expanded and he had glimpsed a small part of what man's potential could be. The mad plot to destroy Zurn and the Erthmen must be foiled. His own fate as an undercover Fellow was upon him. The Fellows must destroy him. Action seemed the only out. He fired through the cloak, saw Tanab reel, raise the four-barreled weapon again. Antor's short weapon roared. Orch screamed in wild rage and Hwat fired again, more accurately this time. ( Continued from page #I )  Memberships: Supporting, #; Atgia #.  aton Hotel, Toronto, Canada. GuestsTanab slewed around and collapsed. Antor Ref's body thudded soddenly back against Hwat's knees. Hwat caught a glimpse of a knife slash and of Antor's head askew above the red gape. Then his weapon was out, its two-foot length warding the two daggers of Orch. Orch was a dead man. His chest was tom open from the blast of Antor's pistol. Yet he fought on ferociously. The years of eating and enjoying the good life while his skill with weapons and in combat were mothballed were catching up with Hwat Ten. He fought strongly but clumsily. The keen-ground dagger of Orch came through and he was aware of gushing and of weakness. But there was little pain. Only a sense of darkening twilight. He saw Orch fall. The wisdom of the Words of Malan, came his final thought, was not for men. Not even himself.  of-Honor: Anne McCarffrey, Isaac Asimov. Membership: # in advance. For information: Peter Gill, # Glen Manor Drive, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. For information and registration: West Germany. IF ( Continued from page #) turned to Maggie. "I'm pleased that a Tingle-lime commercial was on when you made your first purchase because it demonstrates the superiority of the Telemart Three over all other models. Believe it or not, a carbonated drink is not an easy object to transmit. With older systems there was an appreciable loss of carbon dioxide pressure before the container was completely formed. But the Telemart Three comes so close to instantaneous construction of the transmitted object that -- " "Oh, look," Maggie interupted. "There's a commercial for liqueur chocolates. It's ages since I've had a liqueur chocolate." Ted hurried into the groundfloor room where his wife had slept since her injury and found the bracelet of Venusian gold. He had a feeling he would need to get the best possible price for it. a certain amount of abject pleading, he dropped over five thousand on the bracklet. He hurried to his favorite gymnasium and spent two hours trying to work the tension toxins out of his body but all the while a gloomy certainty that he had made a major blunder was building up in him. Finally, halfway through a set of deep knee bends, he made a decision -- Maggie would have to give him her sacred vow not to use the Telemart for anything beyond normal household shopping. If necessary he would even sit with her at nights until satisfied she was going to play the game. He showered quickly and drove home in his aging rotary-engined Pontiac. The tall narrow house was in darkness except for a dim, shifting light in the window of the lounge. Ted . sprinted up the stone steps and ran into the house but he had trouble opening the lounge door. Something heavy seemed to be preventing it from moving. He got his head into the room and blinked incredulously at what he saw. Maggie was sitting close to the proscenium, watching a noisy powerboat race. She was almost hidden from his view by a pile of cartons and boxes, most of which had been opened. In the first seconds he picked out three new table lamps, a gilt-framed painting that looked like a Renoir, several of the recently developed four-legged turkeys in polyethylene skins, a salon-type hair drier, numerous hatboxes and a deluxe Micropedia Britannica, complete with reclining chair and ceiling projector. Ted was unable to suppress a plaintive whimpering sound as he forced his way into the room. "You bitch," he moaned. "You faithless bitch." "What did you say, honey?" Maggie twisted a knob on the handset and the sound of the jockeying speedboats faded away. She wheeled her chair around to face Ted and he saw the Telemart brochure open on her knees. "What do you think you're doing, Maggie? They don't give this stuff away, you know -- our bank account is automatically debited every time you press that button." Maggie shrugged. "I've been enjoying myself -- which makes a nice change. Ted, honey, you really should look at this brochure. You don't have to buy just what they show you in the commercials -- Telemart offers all kinds of services I never heard -- " She stopped speaking as he picked up one of the turkeys and hurled it at the vista of boats beyond the proscenium arch. The bird passed through a red boat, hit the wall of the room and bounced back out onto the floor. "I'm going to kill you," Ted announced. "I'm a fair-minded man and I don't like the idea of choice." "You've been drinking." "I'm cold sober." He looked around the room, selected one of the new table lamps and removed its ornate shade, leaving himself with a serviceable blunt instrument. Maggie clutched the Telemart's handset to her bosom in a strangely protective gesture. "Don't come near me." "In a way I blame myself," Ted said sadly, hefting the base of the lamp. "I should have known you weren't ready for the responsibilities of marriage." He stepped over a cluster of perfume bottles and swung down at Maggie's head. She twisted away from the lamp. It crunched into the back of the wheelchair, tipping it over. Maggie sprawled among the hatboxes. Breathing heavily, Ted stood over her and raised the base with both hands, noting with one part of his mind that she was still holding the handset and was, in fact, twisting a red knob on it. Poor mindless lump, he thought as he brought down the club. "Drop it right there, fellow," a voice said close behind him. Ted spun and saw a hard-faced young man in a gray suit stepping down from the truncated catwalk attached to the proscenium. The stranger was holding an automatic pistol. "Who -- " Ted's voice faltered as he tried to grasp the enormity of what was happening. "What is this?" The stranger smiled unpleasantly. "You can't have studied the section of the Telemart brochure covering our new Three-star Protection Service for clients' lives and property." "Protection?" "Yes. As soon as we get an IF emergency signal a trained security man who is on duty at the station is instantaneously transmitted into the home -- and in this case I'd say I made it just in time." "But they can't do that." Ted had an overpowering sense of outrage. "After a while there'd be hundreds of duplicates of you running about the city. Telemart can't go around creating extra people -- we're overpopulated as it is." A shadow crossed the stranger's face. "That's taken care of. They deliberately program a flaw into the hiemoglobin structure of any duplicates they have to transmit. A massive embolism will kill me in a few hours. It's a hell of a prospect." The stranger raised his right hand and leveled the pistol. "Just a minute," Ted said desperately. "There must be some arrangement we can come to. I've got money -- " The stranger regarded him out of cold, tortured eyes. "What good is money to a duplicate like me? I've got a short life and all I can do is make it as satisfying as possible." He aimed the pistol right between Ted's eyes and pulled the trigger.  Daniels turned and went up the snowy path to the house. He'd like some coffee and a bite to eat -- but first he had to do the chores. Ho had to milk the cows and feed the pigs. The chickens must wait till morning -- it was too late to feed the chickens. The cows would be waiting at the bam door. They had waited for a long time and it was not right to make them wait. He opened the door and stepped into the kitchen. Someone was waiting for him. It sat on the table or floated so close above it that it seemed to be sitting. The fire in the stove had gone out and the room was dark but the creature sparkled. You saw? the creature asked. "Yes," said Daniels. "I saw and heard. I don't know what to do. What is right or wrong? Who knows what's right or wrong?" Not you, the creature said. Not I. I can only wait. I can only keep the faith. Perhaps among the stars, thought Daniels, might be those who did know. Perhaps by listening to the stars, perhaps by trying to break in on their conversations and by asking questions, he might get an answer. Certainly there must be some universal ethics. A list, perhaps, of Universal Commandments. Maybe not ten of them. Maybe only two or three -- but any number might be enough. "I can't stay and talk," he said. "I have animals to take care of. Could you stick around? Later we can talk." He fumbled for the lantern on the bench against the wall, found the matches on the shelf. He lit the lantern and its feeble flame made a puddle of light in the darkness of the room. You have others to take care of? asked the creature. Others not quite like yourself . Others, trusting you, without your intelligence? "I guess you could say it that way," Daniels said. "I've never heard it put quite that way before." Could I go along with you? the creature asked. It occurs to me, just now, that in many ways we are very much alike. "Very much -- " But with the sentence hanging in the air, Daniels stopped. Not a hound, he told himself. Not the faithful dog. But the shepherd. Could that be it? Not the master but the long-lost lamb? He reached out a hand toward the creature in a swift gesture of understanding, then pulled it back, remembering it was nothing he could touch. He lifted the lantern and turned toward the door. "Come along," he said. Together the two of them went through the storm toward the barn and the waiting cows.  as Billy prepared a hypodermic, thinking how there would be two of them now to divide the precious gossamer spores and go out among two-legged animals, bending them unknowingly to the creation of a new world for his people. And again in some corner of Jake's skull Jake sensed a weak crying. He watched the dentist point the needle toward him, felt a slight prick at the joint of jawbone. He settled back to await the onslaught of numbness around his gums -- then suddenly began screaming and he knew that he was dying. No -- the thing inside his skull was screaming. It was dying -- not himself. but no sound vibrated his throat membranes. He sensed the dentist's sharp look, his fast reaction, heard the exclamation as the man whirled. "Damn it, why, didn't you tell me you were allergic to novocaine?" Jake tried to talk: "No -- not allergic. It's the thing. It's the thing in my head. It's not a novocaine reaction. You've killed the thing -- don't!" he shouted as he saw Marbry turning back toward him with another hypo. He knocked the dentist's arm aside and jumped from the chair. ( Continued from page #) That portion of mind he recognized as himself was emerging, gaining strength. His words became recognizable. He shouted again, "You've killed the thing that was inside my head. Novocaine will poison it. You've killed it." He saw the dentist recoil, saw the nurse back up against the door. She slipped out of the room. Marbry shouted, "Sit down a minute. Let me counteract that novocaine -- " Jake dodged behind the chair, repeating, "No. I need the novocaine. It's poisoned the thing in my head. I'm free, Billy." He began pleading with the doctor. "You've got one in your head. Take a shot of novocaine before it grows strong enough to grab control of you. Novocaine will kill it." Marbry backed into the outer office. Jake followed, begging, "Take the novocaine, Bill. Quick! Before it drives you out of your mind -- before you can't think for yourself any more." The nurse turned from the phone, calling, "They're coming." Marbry held both hands up toward Jake. "Try to relax, fellow. You'll be all right. You're just a little out of your head. Everything will be all right." He edged along the office wall. Jake followed him still peading, "Take the novocaine, Bill, before it's too late. Save the world -- " "He's crazy!" the nurse screamed. Marbry pleaded, "Just relax, Jake. We won't harm you. We want to help you. I'm your friend. Remember?" Jaked pushed a hand into his pocket and felt, for the tiny cloudlike balls. "See, Bill? It's these things. They're after us. I put one in your head. Kill it quick." He began picking the alien things from his pocket, dropping them under his heel to crush them. They were moving wildly and he ran fingers around in the wrinkled fabric after the last ones. "Now get the one in your head," he begged the dentist. "Take the novocaine. Poison it." He saw the horrified look of the dentist and realized his friend could not see the spores in the dim office light. He held up the next month'sfeatures last one, trying to show it. "Look, Bill. I'm not crazy. We've got to kill them all or it will be the end of the human race. We'll be slaves, zombies for these things." Marbry continued to repeat, "Just relax. We'll have help for you in a minute." Jake did not see the uniformed figures come into the room. He felt strong hands on his shoulders. His arms were pulled back. Cuffs snapped around his wrists. A rough voice said, "Here now, buddy -- everything's going to be all right." Jake was dragged down the hall, pleading and shouting back to the dentist, "Take the novocain before you wreck the world." In the squad car he begged to be taken back, to be listened to, to be taken to someone with understanding, until the prick of another needle and subsequent narcotic sleep stilled his tongue.  next month's IF features the best of all possible worlds IF ( Continued from page #) variations oj up to # within a span oj a couple oj years. IQ, which is a measure of the ability to learn, has nothing to do with financial success or the ability to apply that knowledge. That is the province oj creativity and just plain drive. Any comparison among those qualities is specious. I can't understand the furor over something which can't be defined very well, and doesn't have much impact in our lives. I disagree with you on the failures of the Caucasoids. The prime purpose of any species is to survive. If anything, we have done too well. Most of our problems are due to the over abundance of our abilities at this. We have got problems; but, until the Caucasoid population is in a decline, I can't really feel that we have failed. I certainly don't like what we have been doing to ourselves, whatever the color, and we have a long way to go. However, I am optimistic about our chances of getting there. Robert Ewart Bedford Hills, N. Y. On a purely population basis. Bob, I don't think the Caucasoids are even in the race -- we're vastly outnumbered, though we're ahead on acquisitiveness and muscle. And at least a sidelight on survival may be suggested by a recent Wall Street Journal report that college graduates over six feet two inches tall receive an average starting salary # per cent higher than those under six feet. I don'ifjk#ow exactjy what this means -- but if simple survival is the measure of success we might all do best to walk tall. And pick on the small. Regardless of race, creed or color. I know you don't mean to and neither do I. Thanks for a great letter. Included here is a mere sampling of letters to give some idea of the range of interest. The subject will be covered more completely in a future editorial. Dear Mr. Jakobs son: Things are looking up. There was much consternation here for a while at the new state of Galaxy and If, missing issues and such -- um, by the way, I hear ugly rumors from my subscribing friends about missing issues -- you'll probably hear them pretty soon. But it's such a relief to be able to enjoy an editorial for a change -- two editorials, even. Campbell's get me so darn mad I usually have to chuck the magazine into a corner for a while to cool down -- seldom that there's much worth reading there anyway. Alas, I can't comment on your latest contents, not ; having read them yet either -- only the Budrys book review. Whatever else you do, keep him! And I'll add my voice calling for Delany. Please? I see your publisher is on the side of the angels in The Great Staple War. I only hope his glue is permanent. Being in the fortunate  unfortunate position of having to buy Galaxy and to maintain complete collections, she said modestly. I'm very glad to see that they aren't headed for the bottomless pits after all. Best of luck. Sue A nderson East Lansing, Michigan I admire your choice of reading matter. You and I see eye to eye on Budrys -- shall we call him peerless? With readers like you, how can GalaxyIf not survive? You take care. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: My congratulations and thanks for your editorial whack at John Campbell in the November Galaxy. I have in times past carried on an intermittent, but rather futile, duel with Mr. Campbell -- futile because, you know, he has that magazine and I have my stationery. So it is indeed a pleasure to see a rational discussion of one of his articles in print. I have my own revolutionary idea about the ( taken for granted ) difference of blacks from whites. I note that black cultures have remained superior in tropical zones and postulate, therefore, that some yet unknown thermal variant compounded of temperature differences and the heat-absorption differential of dark skin has caused their brains to be addled outside of an area stretching from, say, Conakry to Lusaka. This in no way, mind you, implies that blacks are inferior -- not within their proper sphere, which evidently is what Mr. Campbell is driving at. Seriously, though, it seems remarkable to me that an ingenious man, who being too narrow-minded to investigate the possibility that there is in fact a physical difference between races, should himself be so circumscribed that he will not take up the subject of discrimination. Perhaps an application of Occam's Razor would help trim Mr. Campbell's ideas down to size. Discrimination is so simple -- and it fits so many facts so readily. Why spend so much time and mental energy in pursuit of some mysterious pseudoscientific will-of-the-wisp? I can only conclude that Mr. Campbell has some vested interest in finding a phlogiston to fit his needs. If I did not know what a forward-looking thinker he is, I would suggest that his interest is prejudice. Again, my thanks. Your publication remains excellent. Best wishes, Thomas O. Gary Troy, Mich Variations in human skin composition have been and are currently under scientific scrutiny and analysis, with particular attention to their effectiveness under different atmospheric and temperature conditions. The last time I looked, several months ago, conclusions were not yet definite and no cultural trends were either inferred or envisioned. Thank you for a constructive letter. Differences, some obvious, some subtle, exist of course between individual Blacks as they do between individual Whites. And isn't that great? Only the very dull see or have tolerance for uniformity. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I have oft been tempted to write a letter to the editor but your editorial in the December issue of IF was the first to force action. You obviously missed the point of Mr. Campbell's editorial completely. It was the concept that " difference " implies " higher " and "lower" which he was arguing against. The fact that you failed to grasp this IF shows that you are among the victims oj the prejudice which he was attempting to refute. In trying to negate Mr. Campbell's thesis, you imply in every turn that he said the opposite of what he did say (and suggest that it is not necessary for anyone to check your sources .) You imply he holds " White Scholarly' standards in high esteem, he clearly shows that they are invalid criteria; you imply he holds Scots to be superior in all respects to Blacks, he says he much prefers the music developed uniquely by the Blacks of Trinidad to that by his own people. But why go on? The point should be clear now. So fish your October issue of Analog out of the trash can and read what Mr. Campbell says instead of what you think he is going to say. I'm enclosing a stamped, selfaddressed envelope, and would like a personal reply. By the way, I generally agree with your editorials, so keep up the good work. I'm enclosing a check for a #-issue subscription to IF. Thank you. James C. Fairfield Wichita, Kan. I failed to grasp nothing in Mr. Campbell's editorial -- not even the expressed innuendo that the scientific community had, by implication, condemned Blacks as intellectually inferior to Whites. I implied nothing about the White "Scholarly" standards (the quotations are Mr. Campbell's) but simply stated that, despite a Black heritage, Walter Francis White was outstandingly successful by those standards in a hostile White environment. As were, I might add here, authors Pushkin in Russia and Dumas in France. Nor did I imply that Mr. Campbell considered Scots "superior in all respects" -- I did point out that he reasoned from the particular to the general in this particular editorial in citing the success of a couple qf Scots and then inferring greater adaptability to Scots in our society. Individual Black successes in our Caucasoid society abound in all areas from athletics through Qrts and sciences, education and government -- successes won against harsher environmental conditions than most Whites encounter -- enough of them certainly to disprove any dogmatic link between skin color and type and quality of intellect andor talent. From Booker T. Washington to the present Blacks have contributed a hell of a lot more than Trinidad rhythm to "Caucasoid" culture on its own terms and we stand as idiots if we remain blind to the fact. More to come on this at a later date. Dear Sirs: Congratulations! Several months ago I quit buying both Galaxy and If as I was convinced that I would never see anything but psuedo-sophistication and false respectability in either. I had heard that both had changed editors and publishers, but-being slightly strapped for cash at the timeI abstained for the time being. Then I picked up the Dec. issue of Worlds of If. I was shocked! Quality at last! The artwork was free and unchained ( although I would have preferred that the first paragraph of Nor man Spinrad's story not be completely covered ) and in the ashes oj the pyre a new Worlds of If arose. Young and powerful. A magazine I truly enjoyed reading. Spinrad's and Brunner's stories were the highlights of the magazine for me. Artistically your magazine is terrific, although a word to the wise -- don't over-work the master. Get another master and they can spell each other. Get Jim Steranko. I hope to see more of Spinrad in the future, along with Harlan Ellison, Philip Jose Farmer, Phil Dick and Larry Eisenberg. Glad to hear that you are reviving Worlds of Tomorrow. Glad because there is a chronic need for sf magazines -- and I feel that it will be a good one with you characters backing it! On parting I say: Good luck in the future, good luck now -- and ditch the digest size by #. David Lewton Indianapolis, Ind. This month's If First introduces Timothy M. Brown a sophomore physics major at Wesleyan University, interested mainly in problems in astronomy -- an interest triggered by an early conversion to science fiction. At # he's a veteran of eight years of pounding out sf, which he has only now begun to try to market. Ethics of Trade , you'll agree, is a fine story and augurs for a real discovery. Editor: Regarding Edward M. Osachie's letter in the November Hue and Cry --  must say that his complaint has been long overdue concerning Arthur Clarke's " disclaimer " on the copyright page of the tenth U.S. printing of Childhood's End: "The opinions expressed in this book are not those of the author." This remark of Clarke's is not a recent addition, but has been placed in all editions of C.E. since its first publication by Ballantine Books in #. One would think someone would remarked about it before now. In any case, the meaning of the statement came out when I spoke with Mr. Clarke early in # while researching my also-overdue book about the gentleman and his works. He had been a bit evasive about answering the question in his letter, but he finally explained that he did not believe man could evolve according to his hopes without venturing into space. As most of your readers know, mankind does not get to travel into space in C.E., but is restrained from doing so by the Overlords. Ironically, the only man permitted to leave the planet Earth by the Overlords is also the only man left on Earth to die when humanity joins the Overmind. Thus, Clarke apologized for not letting Man become Spaceman in Childhood's End. #I eventually made up for this in some respects. In closing, let me correct Mr. Osachie that C.E. is not the expanded version of Against the Fall of Night. The latter was rewritten under the title The City and the Stars, while C.E. is really a lengthening of a Clarkian novella, Guardian Angel. John C. Sherwood Marshall, Mich. IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your ki m mm Wi   iRD SC.i   tr ON pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Leigh Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. #-I from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and damned before it was even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-#A the Planet of the Flowers, Dr. Freda Caron's fiance Paul has sent her an exquisite iridescent yellow tulip that not only has a plastic memory -- but can talk. Freda realizes that she must unlock the secrets of the flower planet and its strange hold on Paul. In this exciting new book, Freda must travel from her ultra-rational world-oftomorrow to explore the strange, unearthly flower planet. The climax of this shocking and oddly beautiful novel is bizarre and delightful. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinister ism. They are dangerous and Midwich must make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # S-# C. M. Kornbluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests, The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... # .# #-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... #. # S-#A Asimov book... America's foremost science writer, takes you on a personalized guided tour of his first # books. This, his #th book, is an anthology of works selected by the author himself. It is a journey which acquaints the reader with a writer considered to be a genius, who delights in every aspect of life and has the capacity to make any subject he writes about both understandable and entertaining. Reviewers customarily greet Asimov publications with such adjectives as ling." Opus # is no exception. # pp. List Price...# Discount Price...#. # S-# Hefnleln's Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessary sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi# pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Office, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name Sc address I have circled. S-l S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# Name Address City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add #I tor postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add #  sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) I got sick and tired of coughing and wheezing and hacking. So I quit. I quit smoking cigarettes. A Which wasn't easy. I'd been M a pack-a-day man for I about # years. V Still, I quit. And, after a V while, I also quit coughing and wheezing and hacking. Now, the American Cancer Society offers every quitter an I.Q. button. To tell everyone you've got what it takes to say "I quit." And it takes plenty. I know from personal experience. I know something else. There is one thing tougher than quitting cigarettes. And that's not quitting. Get your #. Q. button from your local Unit of the American Cancer Society. americcm cancer society mm -- And we'll include everything you need! when you join the Universe Book Club and agree to accept -- at great savings -- only # books in the coming year the ones leading astrologers charge hundreds of dollars for -- even if you don't know a thing about astrology! We'll give you everything you need for a token # -- when you join the Universe Book Club! You get a revolutionary, easy-to-use system based on the precise aspects of all # key heavenly bodies -- for every single date of birth from # through #! Every horoscope you cast will be detailed and personal...rich with information about personality, love life, career potentials, and much more. We'll send you complete astrological charts, tables, symbols, instrucevery planetary position into a completely individual "reading." This means you can discover what the "stars" have in store for you, your family, friends, business associates... which times of the years are favorable...which traits to guard against, which to nurture... and much, much more. If you're interested in astrology, psychic sciences, and other occult phenomena -- this is the book club for you. Each month the Editors select provocative, often controversial books tions by famous mystics, the black arts, astrology. Selections are described in advance. They sell for #, #, or more in publishers' editions, but you pay only # plus shipping and handling. (Occasional extra-value selections slightly higher.) Accept only the books you want. Take as few as # in the coming year from several offered each month. You may resign anytime thereafter. To get everything you need to cast horoscopes the professional way -- at home -- in minutes... simply mail the coupon today with only # to help cover shipping. If not delighted, return the material within # days to cancel membership. Universe Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #.  Instructions for casting horoscopes even with no knowledge of astrology.  All you need for casting horoscopes for anyone born any day from # to #.  Detailed descriptions of personality, character, prospects for careers, health, wealth, etc.  Convenient horoscope forms, plus keys to interpreting each planetary aspect. I Please accept my application for membership and send me Grant Lewi's great work Heaven Knows What with all the materials I ( need to cast horoscopes easily and professionally. I enclose # to help cover shipping. !( New book selections will be described for me in advance. A convenient form will always be provided for my use if I do not wish to receive a forthcoming selection. I pay only #, plus shipping and handling, for each selection I accept (unless I take an extravalue selection). I need take only # selections or alternate selections in the coming year, and may resign any time after that.  scope offer, I may return everything in # days and membership will be cancelled. I will owe nothing. fcHlkKT Devised by a worldfamous professional astrologer This fool-proof system for casting horoscopes was devised by Grant Lewiformer editor of "Horoscope" magazine. A bestselling author, Lewi was regarded as "the astrologer's astrologer" even before this system was published in Heaven Knows What. (please print) o Credit reference (Your phone number, bank or department store charge account) Offer good in Continental U.S.A. and Canada only. #-U# Printed in U.S.A  A Novelette of Man's Ultimate Choice Robert F. Young BBf   "We want to test your writing aptitude" If you have ever wanted to write, here is your opportunity to find out if you have talent worth developing. Take this revealing Aptitude Test created by I # famous authors By Rod Serling If you want to write, my colleagues and I would like to test your writing aptitude. We'll help you find out if you have the talent it takes to become a successful writer. Several years ago, I joined together with Max Shulman, Faith Baldwin, Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, J. D. Ratcliff and several others to form the Famous Writers School. Our aim was to help qualified people acquire the skills they need to break into print. We poured everything we know about writing into a new kind of professional training course, which you take at home in your free time. After a solid grounding in the fundamentals of all good writing, you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice. Each of your writing assignments is examined by instructors who are themselves professional writers or editors. Your instructor goes over your work word by word, blue-penciling corrections right on it -- much as an editor does with established writers. Then he returns it to you with a long, personal letter of advice. This training works well. Our students Rod Serling, six-time Emmy Award winner, made TV writing an art form with Patterns, Requiem for a Heavyweight and Twilight Zone. He has also written many short stories and motion picture scripts. have sold their writing to hundreds of publications including Redbook and True. Free Aptitude Test offered To find out if you can benefit from this training, send for the School's free Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing ability you may enroll. But there is no obligation. Famous Writers School Dept. W-# Westport Connecticut # I want to know if I have writing aptitude worth developing. Please mail me, without obligation, your Aptitude Test and illustrated brochure. Mr. Mrs Age Miss Circle one and please print Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. April, I # Vol. #, No. # lisuo # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Frederik Pohl, Editor Emeritus Judy-Lynn Benjamin , Managing Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor L. C. Murphy, Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N Y # #c per copy. #-issue subscription: S# # in the United States, elsewhere S# #. Second class postage paid at New York, N Y and additional mailing offices. Copyright ' # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered dem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman Less than a year ago I was surprised to find that a scientist sharing a discussion panel with me did not know what I meant by science fiction. But after a few minutes during which I tried to summarize the field his face cleared. "Oh," he said, with a mixture of nostalgia and contempt in his voice. "You mean Buck Rogers. Yeah, I used to read that stuff every Sunday." It used to be the standard way of defining science fiction. "That Buck Rogers stuff." Men who had never heard of Verne or Wells much less of Asimov or Heinlein had read at least a few episodes of the comic strip widely syndicated between # and #. Thus for a generation most people derived their ideas of space and rockets from the exploits of Buck Rogers and Wilma Deering. And during that generation, science-fiction writers and enthusiasts tried to overcome that association of their literature with its comic-strip relative. However nostalgic they might be about their own first aquaintance with Buck, they felt the comparison was odious. Maybe they were right, since most outsiders cited it with some contempt to dismiss the whole genre. In any case, now we can all take a second look at those daily strips. Chelsea House Publishers has just brought out The Collected Works of Buck Rogers in the #th Cen( Please turn to page # ) to figure out how much you hate missing the best story of your favorite writer or the major part of a great novel. But we can't compute a formula to stock every newsstand in the country with enough copies of our popular magazines to satisfy every reader. So we sometimes miss you and you miss us -- and that's a double tragedy. It doesn't take a genius to handle it, either. All it takes is a minute of your time, for which we want to repay you with a handsome saving over the newsstand price. Just fill in the coupon -- or write the information on a piece of plain paper -- and mail it to us. Then you'll be sure instead of sorry. Galaxy rate. I enclose my check or money order for:  # issues of each for #  # issues of each for #  # issues of each for # Name Address City  State Zip Code Prices outside the Western Hemisphere add # per # issues for postage Please check whether  new or  renewal Man had his choice of external environments -- and inner hells I up at the textured sky. He found the blue opaque and revolting. He had unwarily looked at the sun, for there was nothing to blank it out automatically, and had snatched his eyes away in panic. He had not been blinded, but his vision swam with afterimages. Even the sun was washed out. Involuntarily, he thought of Ajax's prayer in Iliad : Make the sky clear, grant us to see with our eyes ! Kill us in the light, since it is thy pleasure to kill us! Demerest thought: Kill us in the light... Kill us in the clear light on the Moon, where the sky is black and soft, where the stars shine brightly, where the cleanliness and purity of vacuum sharpen the sight... -- Not in this low-clinging, fuzzy blue. He shuddered. The shudder was physical and real -- it shook his lanky body and he was annoyed. He was going to die. He was sure of it. And not under this blue sky but under black -- and no sky. It was as though in answer to that thought that the ferry pilot, short, swarthy, crisp-haired, came up to him and said, "Ready for the black, Mr. Demerest?" Demerest nodded. He towered over the other as he did over most of the men of Earth. They were thick, all of them, and took their short, low steps with ease. He himself had to feel his footsteps, guide them through the air -- even the impalpable bond that held him to the ground was textured. "I'm ready," he said. He took a deep breath and deliberately repeated his earlier glance at the sun. It stood low in the morning sky, washed out by dusty air, and he knew it wouldn't blind him. He didn't think he would ever see it again. He had never seen a bathyscaphe before. He tended to think of it in terms of prototypes -- an oblong balloon with a spherical gondola beneath. It was as though he persisted in thinking of spaceflight in terms of tons of fuel spewed backward in fire and an irregular module feeling its way, spiderlike, toward the Lunar surface. The bathyscaphe was not like the image in his thoughts at all. Under its skin it might still be buoyant bag and gondola but it was all engineered sleekness now. "My name is Javan," said the ferry pilot, "Omar Javan." "Javan?" "Queer name to you? I'm Iranian by descent -- Earthman by persuasion. Once you get down there nationalities cease to matter." He grinned and his complexion grew darker against the even whiteness of his teeth. "If IF you don't mind, we'll be starting in a minute. You'll be my only passenger so I guess you carry weight." "Yes," said Demerest, dryly, "At least a hundred pounds more than I'm used to." "You're from the Moon? I thought you had a queer walk on you. I hope it's not uncomfortable." "It's not exactly comfortable but I manage. We exercise for this." "Well, come on board." He stood aside and let Demerest walk down the gangplank. "I wouldn't go to the Moon myself." "You go to Ocean-Deep." "About fifty times, so far. That's different." Demerest got on board. The space was cramped but he didn't mind that. The 'scaphe's interior might be a space module's except that it was more -- well, textured. There was that word again. The overriding feeling was that mass didn't matter. Mass was held up -- it did not have to be hurled up. They were still on the surface. The blue sky could be seen greenishly through the clear thick glass. Javan said, "You don't have to be strapped in. There's no acceleration. Smooth as oil, the whole thing. It won't take long -- just about an hour. You can't smoke." "I don't smoke," said Demerest. "I hope you don't have claustrophobia." "Moonmen don't have claustrophobia." "All that open -- " "Not in our cavern. We live in a -- " he groped for the phrase -- "Lunar-Deep, a hundred feet deep." "A hundred feet?" The pilot seemed amused but he didn't smile. "We're slipping down now." The interior of the gondola was fitted into angles but here and there a section of wall beyond the instruments seemed to be an extension of his arms -- his eyes and hands moved over them lightly, almost lovingly. "We're all checked out," he said, "b,ut I like a last minute lookover -- we'll be facing a thousand atmospheres down there." His finger touched a contact, and the round door closed massively inward and pressed against the beveled rim it met. "The higher the pressure, the tighter that will hold. Take your last look at sunlight, Mr. Demerest." The light still shone through the thick glass of the window. It was wavering now; there was water between the Sun and themselves now. "The last look?" said Demerest. Javan snickered. "Not the last look. I mean for the trip. I suppose you've never been on a bathyscaphe before." "No, I haven't. Have many?" "Very few," admitted Javan. "But don't worry. It's just an underwater balloon. We've introsince the first bathyscaphe. We're nuclear-powered now and we can move freely by water jet up to certain limits -- but cut it down to basics and it's still a spherical gondola under buoyancy tanks. And it's still towed out to sea by a mother ship because it needs what power it carries too badly to waste any on surface travel. Ready?" T HE supporting cable of the mother ship flicked away and the bathyscaphe settled lower, then lower still, as seawater fed into the buoyancy tanks. For a few moments, caught in surface currents, it swayed, and then there was nothing. Neither sense of motion nor lack of it. The bathyscaphe sank slowly through a deepening green. Javan relaxed. He said, "John Bergen is head of Ocean-Deep. You're going to see him?" "That's right." "He's a nice guy. His wife's with him." "She is?" "Oh, sure. They have women down there. There's a bunch down there, fifty people. Some stay for months." Demerest put his finger on the narrow and nearly invisible seam where door met wall. He took it away and looked at it. He said, "It's oily." "Silicony, really. The pressure squeezes some out. It's supposed to. Don't worry. Everything's automatic. Everything's fail safe. The first sign of malfunction, any malfunction at all, our ballast is released and up we go." "You mean nothing's ever happened to these bathyscaphes?" "What can happen?" The pilot looked sidewise at his passenger. "Once you get too deep for sperm whales, there's nothing that can go wrong." "Sperm whales?" Demerest's thin face creased in a frown. "Sure. They dive as deep as half a mile. If they hit a bathyscaphe -- well, the walls of the buoyancy chambers aren't particularly strong. They don't have to be, you know. They're open to the sea and when the gasoline, which supplies the buoyancy, compresses, seawater enters." Darkness became tangible. Demerest found his gaze fastened to the viewport. The inside of the gondola was lighted but it was dark in that window. And the darkness was not the darkness of space -- it was thick, solid. Demerest said sharply, "Let's get this straight, Mr. Javan. You are not equipped to withstand the attack of a sperm whale. Presumably, you are not equipped to withstand the attack of a giant squid. Have there been any actual incidents of that sort?" "Well, it's like this -- " "No games, please, and don't try ragging the greenhorn. I am asking out of professional curiosity. I am head safety engineer at Luna City and I am asking what precautions this bathyscaphe can take against possible collision with large creatures." Javan looked embarrassed. He muttered, "Actually, there have been no incidents." "Are any expected? Even as a remote possibility?" "Anything is remotely possible. But actually sperm whales are too intelligent to monkey with us and giant squid are too shy." "Can they see us?" "Yes, of course. We're lit up." "Do you have floodlights?" "We're already past the largeanimal range but we have them. I'll turn them on for you." Beyond the black of the window suddenly appeared a snowstorm, inverted, upward-falling. The blackness had come alive with stars in three-dimensional array and all moving upward. Demerest said, "What's that?" "Just crud. Organic matter. Small creatures. They float, don't move much, and they catch the light. We're going down past them. They seem to be going up in consequence." Demerest's sense of perspective adjusted itself and he said, "Aren't we dropping too quickly." "No, we're not. If we were I could use the nuclear engines if I wanted to waste power -- or I could drop some ballast. I'll be doing that later but for now everything is fine. Relax, Mr. Demerest. The snow thins as we drive and we're not likely to see much in the way of spectacular life forms. There are small angler fish and such but they avoid us." Demerest said, "How many do you take down at a time?" "I've had as many as four passengers in this gondola but that's crowded. We can put two bathyscaphes in tandem and carry ten but that's clumsy. What we really need are trains of gondolas, heavier on the nukes -- the nuclear engines -- and lighter on the buoyancy. Stuff like that is on the drawing board, they tell me. Of course, they've been telling me that for years." "There are plans for large-scale expansion of OceanDeep, then?" "Sure, why not? We've got cities on the continental shelves -- why not on the deep-sea bottom? The way I look at it, Mr. Demerest, where man can go he will go and he should go. The Earth is ours to populate and we will populate it. All we need to make the deep sea habitable are completely maneuverable 'scaphes. The buoyancy chambers slow us, weaken us and complicate the engineering." "'But they also save you, don't they? If everything went wrong at once the gasoline on board would still float you to the surface. What would do that for you if your nuclear engines went wrong and you had no buoyancy?" "If it comes to that -- you can't expect to eliminate the chances of accident altogether, not even fatal ones." "I know that very well," said Demerest feelingly. Javan stiffened. The tone of his voice changed, "Sorry. Didn't mean anything by that. Tough about that accident." Fifteen men and five women had died on the Moon. One of the individuals listed among the "men" had been fourteen years old. It had been pinned down to human failure. What could a head safety engineer say after that? "Yes," he said. A pall dropped between the two men, a pall as thick and as turgid as the pressurized sea water outside. How could one allow for panic, distraction and depression all at once? There were the Moon Blues -- stupid name -- but they struck men at inconvenient times. When the Moon Blues came was not always noticeable but it made men torpid and slow to react. How many times had a meteorite come along and been averted or smothered or successfully absorbed? How many times had a Moonquake done damage and been held in check? How many times had human failure been backed up and compensated for? How many times had accidents not happened? But you don't pay off on accidents not happening. Now twenty were dead. II minutes later? -- "There are the lights of Ocean-Deep." Demerest could not make them out at first. He didn't know where to look. Luminescent creatures had flicked past the windows twice before -- at a distance and with the floodlight off again Demerest had thought them the first sign of Ocean-Deep. Now he saw nothing. "Down there," said Javan, without pointing. He was busy now, slowing the drop and edging the 'scaphe sideways. Demerest could hear the distant sighing of the water jets, steam-driven, the steam formed by the heat of momentary bursts of fusion power. Demerest's thought had a filmy transparency. It did not distract him. Deuterium is their fuel and it's all around them. Water is their exhaust and it's all around them... IF Javan was dropping some of his ballast, too, and began a kind of distant chatter. "The ballast used to be steel pellets and they were dropped by electromagnetic controls. Anywhere up to fifty tons of it were used in each trip. Conservationists worried about spreading rusting steel over the ocean floor -- so we switched to metal nodules that are dredged up from the continental shelf. We put a thin layer of iron over them so they can still be electromagnetically handled and the ocean bottom gets nothing that wasn't subocean to begin with. Cheaper, too. But when we get our real nuclear 'seaphes, we won't need ballast at all." Demerest scarcely heard him. Ocean-Deep could be seen now. Javan had turned on his floodlight and far below was the muddy floor of the Puerto Rican Trench. Resting on that floor like a cluster of equally muddy pearls was the spherical conglomerate of OceanDeep. Each unit was a sphere such as the one in which Demerest was now sinking  toward contact -- but much larger. As Ocean-Deep expanded -- expanded -- expanded, new spheres were added. They're only Jive and a half miles from home, not a quarter of "How are we going to get through?" asked Demerest. The 'scaphe had made contact. Demerest had heard the dull sound of metal against metal but for minutes afterward the only sound had been a kind of occasional scrape as Javan bent over his instruments in rapt concentration. "Don't worry about that," Javan said at last, in belated answer. "There's no problem. The delay now is caused by my having to make sure we fit tightly. An electromagnetic joint holds at every point of a perfect circle -- when the instruments read correctly we fit over the entrance door." "Which then opens?" "It would if there were air on the other side. But there isn't. There's sea-water and that has to be driven out. Then we enter." Demerest did not miss this point. He had come here on this, the last day of his life, to give that same life meaning and he intended to miss nothing. He said, "Why the added step? Why not keep the airlock -- if that's what it is -- a real airlock and have air in it at all times." "They tell merit's a matter of safety," said Javan. "Your specialty. The interface has equal pressure on both sides at all times, except when men are moving across. This door is the weakest point of the whole system because it opens and closes -- it has joints -- it has seams. You know what I mean?" "I do," murmured Demerest. He saw a logical flaw here and that meant there was a possible chink through which -- but later. He asked, "Why are we waiting now?" "The lock is being emptied. The water is being forced out." "By air." "Hell, no. They can't afford to waste air like that. It would take a thousand atmospheres to empty the chamber of its water and fill-, ing the chamber with air at that density, even temporarily, takes more air than they can afford to expend. Steam is what does it." "Of course. Yes." Javan said cheerfully, "You heat the water. No pressure in the world' can stop water from turning to steam at a temperature of less than # C. And the steam forces the seawater out through a oneway valve." "Another weak point," said Demerest. "I suppose so. It's opver failed yet. The water in the lock is being pushed out now. When hot steam starts bubbling out the valve the process automatically stops and the lock is full of overheated steam." "And then?" "And then we have a whole ocean to cool it with. The temperature drops and the steam condenses. Once that happens ordinary air can be let in at a pressure of one atmosphere. And then the door opens." "How long must we wait?" "Not long. If anything were wrong sirens would be sounding. At least so they say. I never heard one in action." utes. Then came a sudden sharp clap and a simultaneous jerk. Javan said, "Sorry, I should have warned you. I'm so. used to it, I forgot. When the door opens a thousand atmospheres of pressure on the other side forces us hard against the metal of OceanDeep. No electromagnetic force can hold us hard enough to prevent that last hundredth-of-aninch slam." Demerest unclenched his fist and released his breath. He asked "Is everything all right?" "The walls didn't crack, if that's what you mean. It sounds like doom, though, doesn't it. It sounds even worse when I leave and the airlock fills up again. Be prepared for that." But Demerest was suddenly weary. Let's get on with it -- I don't want to drag it out. He asked, "Do we go through now?" "We go through." The opening in the 'scaphe wall was round and small -- even smaller than the one through IF which they had originally entered. Javan went through it sinuously, muttering that it always made him feel like a cork in a bottle. Demerest had not smiled since he entered the 'scaphe. Nor did he really smile now but a corner of his mouth quirked at the thought that a skinny Moonman would have no trouble. He went through also, feeling. Javan's hands firmly at his waist, helping him through. Javan said, "It's dark in here. No point in introducing an additional weakness by wiring for lighting. But that's why flashlights were invented." Demerest found himself on a perforated walk, its stainless metallic surface gleaming dully. And through the perforations he could make out the wavering surface of water. He said, "The chamber hasn't been emptied." "You can't do any better, Mr. Demerest. If you're going to use steam to empty it you're left with that steam. And to get the pressures necessary to do the emptying that steam must be compressed to about one third the density of liquid water. When it condenses the chamber remains one third full of water -- but it's water at just one-atmosphere pressure. Come on, Mr. Demerest." entirely unknown to Demerest. Recognition was immediate. Bergen, as head of Ocean-Deep for nearly a decade now, was a familiar face on the TV screens of Earth -- just as the leaders of Luna City had become familiar. Demerest had seen the head of Ocean-Deep both flat and in three-dimensions, in black-andwhite and in color. Seeing him in life added little. Like Javan, Bergen was short and thickset, opposite in structure to the traditional Lunar pattern of physiology. He was fairer than Javan by a good deal and his face was noticeably asymmetric, though his somewhat thick nose leaned a little to the right. He was not handsome. No Moonman would think he was. But then Bergen smiled and a sunniness emanated from him as he held out a large hand. Demerest extended his own thin one, steeling himself for a hard grip that did not come. Bergen shook hands and let go. He said, "I'm glad you're here. We don't have much in the way of luxury, nothing that will make our hospitality stand out. We can't even declare a holiday in your honor but the spirit is there. Welcome!" "Thank you," said Demerest softly. He remained unsmiling. He was facing the enemy and he knew it. Surely Bergen must know it also. His smile was hypocrisy. And at that moment a clang like metal against metal sounded deafeningly and the chamber shuddered. Demerest leaped back and staggered against the wall. Bergen did not budge. He said quietly, "That was the bathyscaphe unhitching and the Javan ought to have warned you." Demerest panted and tried to make his racing heart slow. "Javan did warn me. But I was still caught by surprise." Bergen said, "Well, it won't happen again for a while. We don't often have visitors, you know. We're not equipped for it and fight off all kinds of big wheels who think a trip down here would be good for their careers. Politicans of all kinds, chiefly. Your case is different, of course." Is it? Demerest wondered. It had been hard enough to get permission to make the trip down. His superiors back at Luna City had not approved in the first place and had scouted the idea that a diplomatic interchange would be of any use ("diplomatic interchange" was what they had called it). And when he had overridden them he had run into OceanDeep's reluctance to receive him. Persistence alone had made his present visit possible. Bergen said, "I suppose you have your junketing problems on Luna City, too?" Demerest said, "Your average politician isn't as anxious to make he is to make a ten-mile one." "I can see that," agreed Bergen, "and it's more expensive out to the Moon, of course. In a way, this is the first meeting of inner and outer space. No ocean man has ever gone to the Moon as far as I know and you're the first Moonman to visit a subsea station of any kind. No Moon man has even been to one of the settlements on the continental shelf." "It's a historic meeting, then," said Demerest and tried to keep the sarcasm out of his voice. If any leaked through, Brand showed no sign. He rolled up his sleeves as though to emphasize his attitude of informality (or the fact that they were very busy, so that there would be little time for visitors?) and asked, "Do you want coffee? I assume you've eaten. Would you like to rest before I show you around? Do you want to wash up, for that matter, as they say euphemistically?" For a moment curiosity stirred in Demerest; yet not entirely aimless curiosity. Everything involving the interface of OceanDeep with the outside world could be of importance. He spoke carefully. "How are sanitary facilities handled here?" "It's cycled mostly -- as on the IF Moon, I imagine. We can eject if we want to or have to. Man has a bad record of fouling the environment but as the only deep-sea station, what we eject does no perceptible damage. Adds organic matter." He laughed. Demerest filed that away, too. Matter was ejected. Ejection mechanisms existed. Their workings might, be of interest and he, as a safety engineer, had a right to exhibit interest. "Actually," he said, "I'm comfortable at the moment. If you're busy -- " "That's all right. We're always busy but I'm the least so -- if you see what I mean. Suppose I show you around. We've got over fifty units here, each as big as this one, some bigger." Demerest looked about. He saw angles everywhere but beyond the furnishings and equipment he detected signs of the inevitable spherical outer wall. Fifty units! "Build up," went on Bergen, "over a generation of effort. The unit we're standing in is actually the oldest and there's been some talk of demolishing and replacing it. Some of the men say we're ready for second-generation units but I'm not sure. It would be expensive -- everything's expensive down here -- and getting money out of the Planetary Project Council is always a depressing experience." Demerest felt his nostrils flare involuntarily and a spasm of anger shot through him. It was a thrust surely. Luna City's miserawell known to Bergen. But Bergen went on, unnoticing. "I'm a traditionalist, too -- just a little bit. This is the first deepsea unit ever constructed. The first two people to remain overnight on the floor of an ocean trench slept here with nothing except a miserable portable fusion unit to work the escape hatch. I mean the airlock -- we called it the escape hatch to begin with -- and just enough controls for the purpose. Reguera and Tremont -- those were the men. They never made a second trip to the bottom, either; stayed topside forever after. Well, they served their purpose and both are dead now. And here we are with fifty people and with six months as the usual tour of duty. I've spent only two weeks topside in the last year and a half." He motioned vigorously to Demerest to follow him, slid open a door that moved evenly into a recess to give access to the next unit. Demerest paused to examine the opening. He could detect no seams between the adjacent units. "When we add on units they're welded under pressure into the equivalent of a single piece of metal and then reinforced. We can't take chances as I'm sure you understand. I have been given to understand that you're the chief safe -- " Demerest cut him off. "Yes," he said, "We on the Moon admire your safety record." Bergen shrugged. "We've been lucky. Our sympathy, by the way, on the rotten break you fellows had. I mean that fatal -- " Demerest cut him off again. "Yes." Bergen, the Moonman decided, was either a naturally voluble man or else was eager to drown him in words and get rid of him. "The units," said Bergen are arranged in a highly branched chain -- three dimensional actually. We have a map we can show you if you're interested. Most of the end units represent livingsleeping quarters. For privacy, you know. The working units tend to be corridors as well, which is one of the embarrassments of having to live down here." He gestured. "This is our library, part of it, anyway. Not big. But it holds our records on carefully indexed and computed microfilm, so that for its kind it's not only the biggest in the world but the best and the only. And we have a special computer designed to handle the references to meet our needs exactly. It collects, selects, coordinates, weighs, then gives us the gist. We have another library, too, book films and even some printed volumes. But that's for amusement." A voice broke in on Bergen's cheerful flow of talk. "John? May I interrupt?" Demerest started -- the voice had come from behind him. Bergen said, "Annette -- I was going to get you. This is Stephen Demerest of Luna City. Mr. Demerest, may I introduce my wife, Annette." Demerest had turned. He said stiffly, a little mechanically, "I'm pleased to meet you, Mrs. Bergen." But he was staring at her waistline. Annette Bergen seemed in her early thirties. Her brown hair was combed simply and she wore no makeup. Attractive, not beautiful, Demerest noted vaguely. But his eyes kept returning to that waistline. She shrugged. "Yes, I'm pregnant, Mr. Demerest. I'm due in about two months." "Pardon me," Demerest muttered. "So rude of me -- I did not -- " His voice faded. He felt as though the blow had been a physical one. He hadn't expected women, though he didn't know why. He knew there would have to be women in Ocean-Deep. And the ferry pilot had said Bergen's wife was with him. IF Annette Bergen remained silent and Demerest stammered when he asked, "How many women are there in Ocean-Deep, Mr. Bergen?" "Nine at the moment," said Bergen. "All wives. We look forward to a time when we can have the normal ratio of one to one, but we still need workers and researchers primarily and unless women have important qualifications of some sort -- " "They all have important qualifications of some sort, dear," said Mrs. Bergen. "You could keep the men for longer duty if -- " "My wife," said Bergen, laughing, "is a convinced feminist but is not above using sex as an excuse to enforce equality. I keep telling her that that is the feminine way of doing it and not the feminist way, and she keeps saying that's why she's pregnant. You think it's love, sex mania, yearning for motherhood? Nothing of the sort. She's going to have a baby down here to make a philosophical point." Annette said coolly. "Why not? Either this is going to be home for humanity or it isn't going to be. If it is, we're going to have babies here, that's all. I want a baby born in Ocean-Deep. There are babies born in Luna City, aren't there, Mr. Demerest." Demerest took a deep breath, "I was born in Luna City, Mrs. Bergen." "And well she knew it," muttered Bergen. "And you are in your late twenties, I think?" she said. "I am twenty-nine," said Demerest. "And well she knew that, too," said Bergen with a short laugh. "You can bet she looked up all possible data on you when she heard you were coming." "That is quite beside the point," said Annette. "The point is that for twenty-nine years at least children have been born in Luna City and no children have been born in Ocean-Deep." "Luna City, my dear," said Bergen, "is longer established. It is over half a century old -- we are not yet twenty." "Twenty years is quite enough. It takes a baby nine months." Demerest interposed. "Are there any children in OceanDeep?" "No," said Berg. "No. Some day, though." "In two months, anyway," said Annette Bergen, positively. Ill T HE tension grew inside Demerest and when they returned to the unit in which he had first met Bergen he was glad to sit down and accept a cup of coffee. "We'll eat soon," said Bergen matter-of-factly. "I hope you don't mind sitting here, meanwhile. As the prime unit this place isn't used for much except, of course, for the reception of vessels, an item I don't expect will interrupt us for a while. We can talk if you wish." "I do wish," said Demerest. "I hope I'm welcome to join in," said Annette. Demerest looked at her doubtfully but Bergen said to him, "You'll have to agree. She's fascinated by you and by Moonmen generally. She thinks they're -- uh -- you're a new breed. I think that when she's quite through being a Deepwoman she wants to be a Moonwoman." "I just want a word in edgewise, John, and when I get that in, I'd like to hear what Mr. Demerest has to say. What do you think of us, Mr. Demerest?" Demerest said cautiously, "I've asked to come here, Mrs. Bergen, because I'm a safety engineer. Ocean-Deep has an enviable safety record." "Not one fatality in almost twenty years," said Bergen cheerfully. "Only one death by accident in the C-shelf settlements and none in transit by either sub Or 'scaphe. I wish I could say, though, that this was the result of wisdom and care on our part. We do our best, of course, but the breaks have been with us" "John," said Annette, "I really wish you'd let Mr. Demerest speak." "As a safety engineer," said Demerest, "I can't afford to believe in luck and breaks. We cannot stop Moonquakes or large meteorites out at Luna City but we are designed to minimize the effects even of those. There are no excuses or there should be none for human failure. We have not avoided failure on Luna City -- our record recently has been -- " his voice dropped -- "bad. While humans are imperfect, as we all know, machinery should be designed to take that imperfection into account. We lost twenty men and women needlessly." "I know. Still, Luna City has a population of nearly one thousand, doesn't it? Your survival isn't in danger." "The people on Luna City number nine hundred and seventy-two, including myself -- but our survival is in danger. We depend on Earth for essentials. That need not always be so. It wouldn't be so right now if the Planetary Project Council could resist the temptation toward pygmy economies -- " "There, at least, Mr. Demerest," said Bergen, "we see eye to eye. We are not self-supporting, either, and we could be. What's more, we can't grow much beyond our present level unless nuclear 'scaphes are built. As long as we are bound to the buoyancy principle we are limited. Transportation between Deep and Top is slow -- slow for men, slower still for maIF terial nd supplies. I've been pushing, Mr. Demerest, for -- " "Yes, and you'll be getting it now, Mr. Bergen, won't you?" "I hope so. But what makes you so sure?" "Mr. Bergen, let's not play around. You know very well that Earth is committed to spending a fixed amount of money on expansion projects -- on programs designed to expand the human habitat -- and that it is not a terribly large amount. Earth's population is not going to lavish resources in an effort to expand either outer space or inner space if it thinks this will cut into the comfort and convenience of the prime habitat of humans -- the land surface of Earth." Annette broke in. "You make Earthmen sound callous, Mr. Demerest, and that's unfair. It's only human, isn't it, to want to be secure? Earth is overpopulated and is only slowly reversing the havoc inflicted on the planet by the mad Twentieth. Surely man's original home must come first, ahead of either Luna City or Ocean-Deep. Heavens, Ocean-Deep is almost home to me -- but I don't want to see it flourish at the expense of Earth's land." "It's not an either-or, Mrs. Bergen," said Demerest earnestly. "If the ocean and outer space are firmly, honestly and intelligently exploited, it can only rebound to Earth's benefit. A small investment will be lost but a large one will redeem itself with profit." Bergen held up his hand. "Yes, I know. You don't have to argue with me on that point. You'd be trying to convert the converted. Come, let's eat. I tell you what. We'll eat here. If you'll stay with us overnight, or several days for that matter -- you're quite welcome -- there will be ample time to meet everybody. Perhaps you'd rather take it easy for a while, though." "Much rather," said Demerest. "Actually, I want to stay here. I would like to ask, by the way, why I met so few people when we went through the units." "No mystery' said Bergen, genially. "At any given time, some fifteen of our men are asleep and perhaps fifteen more are watching films or playing chess or, if their wives are with them -- " "Yes, John," said Annette. " -- and it's customary not to disturb them. The quarters are constricted and what privacy a man can have is cherished. A few are out at sea -- three right now, I think. That leaves a dozen or so at work in here and you met them." "I'll get lunch," said Annette, rising. She smiled and stepped through the door, which closed automatically behind her. "That's a concession. She's playing woman for your sake. Ordinarily, it would be just as likely for me to get the lunch. The choice is not defined by sex but by the striking of random lightning." Demerest said, "The doors between units, it seems to me, are of dangerously limited strength." "Are they?" "If an accident happened and one unit were punctured -- " Bergen smiled. "No meteorites down her?." "Oh yes, wrong word. If there were a leak of any sort, for any reason, could a unit or a group of units be sealed off against the full pressure of the ocean?" "You mean, the way Luna City can have its component units automatically sealed off in case of meteorite puncture in order to limit damage to a single unit." "Yes," said Demerest, with a faint bitterness. "As did not happen recently." "In theory we could do that -- but the chances of accident are much less down here. As I said, there are no meteorites and, what's more, there are no currents to speak of. Even an earthquake centered immediately below us would not be damaging since we make no fixed or solid contact with the ground beneath and are cushioned by the ocean itself against the shocks. So we can afford to gamble on no massive influx." "Yet if one happened?" "We could be helpless. You see, it is not so easy to seal off component units here. On the Moon there is a pressure differential of just one atmosphere -- one atmosphere inside and the zero atmosphere of vacuum outside. A thin seal is enough. Here at OceanDeep the pressure differential is roughly a thousand atmospheres. To secure absolute safety against that differential would take a great deal of money and you know what you said about getting monAnd so far we've been lucky." "And we haven't," said Demerest. Bergen looked uncomfortable but Annette distracted both men by coming in with lunch at this moment. She said, "I hope, Mr. Demerest, that you're prepared for Spartan fare. All our food in OceanDeep is prepackaged and requires only heating. We specialize in blandness and nonsurprise and the nonsurprise of the day is a bland chicken a la king, with carrots, boiled potatoes, a piece of something that looks like a brownie for dessert and, of course, all the coffee you can drink." Demerest rose to take his tray and tried a smile. "It sounds very like Moon fare, Mrs. Bergen, and I was brought up on that. We grow our own microorganismic food. It is patriotic to eat it but not particularly enIF joyable. We hope to keep improving it, though." "I'm sure you will improve it." Demerest said, as he ate with a slow and methodical chewing, "I hate to ride my specialty but how secure are you against mishaps in your airlock entry?" "It is the weakest point of Ocean-Deep," said Bergen. He had finished eating and was nearly through with his first cup of coffee. "But there's got to be an interface, right? The entry is as automatic as we can make it and as fail safe. Number one: there has to be contact at every point about the outer lock before the fusion generator begins to heat the water within the lock. What's more, the contact has to be metallic and of a metal with just the magnetic permeability we use on our 'scaphes. Presumably, a rock or some mythical deep-sea monster might drop down and make contact at just the right places -- but if so, nothing happens. Then, too, the outer door doesn't open until the steam has pushed the water out and then condensed -- in other words, not till both pressure and temperature have dropped below a certain point. At the moment the outer door begins to open a relatively slight increase in internal pressure, as by water entry, will close it again." Demerest said, "But once men have passed through the lock, the inner door closes behind them and seawater must be allowed into the lock again. Can you do that gradually against the full pressure of the ocean outside?" "No." Bergen smiled. "It doesn't pay to fight the ocean too hard. You have to roll with the punch. We slow it down to about one tenth of free entry but even so it comes in like a rifle shot -- louder, a thunderclap -- or waterclap, if you prefer. The inner door can hold it, though, and it is not subjected to the strain very often. You heard the waterclap when we first met -- when Javan's 'scaphe took off again. Remember?" "I remember," said Demerest. "But here is something I don't understand. You keep the lock filled with ocean at high pressure at all times to keep the outer door without strain. But that keeps the inner door at full strain. Somewhere there has to be strain." "Yes, indeed. But if the outer door, with a thousand-atmosphere differential on its two sides, breaks down, the full ocean in all its millions of cubic miles tries to enter and that would be the end of all. If the inner door is the one under strain and it gives, then it will be messy indeed -- but the only water that enters Ocean-Deep will be the limited quantity in the lock and its pressure will drop at once. We will have plenty of time for repair -- the outer door will certainly hold a long time." "But if both go at once?" "We are through." Brand shrugged. "I need not tell you that neither absolute certainty nor absolute safety exist. You have to live with some risk and the chance of double and simultaneous failure is so microscopically small that it can be lived with easily." "If all your mechanical contrivances fail -- " "They fail safe," said Brand stubbornly. ished the last of his chicken. Mrs. Bergen was already beginning to clean up. "You'll pardon my questions Mr. Bergen, I hope." "You're welcome to ask. I wasn't informed, actually, as to the precise nature of your mission here. 'Fact-finding' is a weasel phrase. However, I assume there is keen distress on the Moon over the recent disaster and as safety engineer you rightly feel the responsibility of correcting whatever shortcomings exist and would be interesting in learning, if possible, from the system used in OceanDeep." "Exactly. But, see here, if all your automatic contrivances fail safe for some reason, for any reason, you would be alive but all your escape mechanisms would be sealed permanently shut. You would be trapped inside OceanDeep and would exchange a slow death for a fast one, that's all." "It's not likely to happen but we'd hope we could make repairs before our air supply gave out. Besides we do have a manual backup system." "Oh?" "Certainly. When Ocean-Deep was first established and this was the only unit -- the one we're sitting in now -- manual controls were all we had. That was unsafe, if you like. There they are, right behind you -- covered with friable plastic." "In emergency, break glass," muttered Demerest, inspecting the covered setup. "Pardon me?" "Just a phrase commonly used in ancient fire-fighting systems. Well, do the manuals still work or has the system been covered with your friable plastic for twenty years to the point where it has all decayed into uselessness with no one noticing." "Not at all. It's periodically checked -- as all our equipment is. That's not my job but I know it is done. If any electrical or electronic circuit is out of its normal working condition, lights flash, signals sound, everything happens but a nuclear blast. You know, Mr. Demerest, we are as curious about Luna City as you are about Ocean-Deep. I presume you would young men -- " "How about a young woman?" IF interposed Annette at once. "I am sure you mean yourself, dear," said Bergen. "And I can only answer that you are determined to have a baby here and to keep it here for a period of time after birth -- and that effectively eliminates you from consideration." Demerest said stiffly, "We hope you will send men to Luna City. We are anxious to have you understand our problems." "Yes, a mutual exchange of problems and of weeping on each others' shoulders might be of great comfort to all. For instance, you have one advantage on Luna City that I wish we could have. With low gravity and a low pressure-differential you can make your caverns take on any irregular and angular fashion that appeals to your esthetic sense or is required for convenience. Down here we're restricted to the sphere -- at least for the foreseeable future -- and our designers develop a hatred for the spherical that surpasses belief. Actually it isn't funny. It breaks them down. They eventually resign rather than continue to work spherically." Bergen shook his head and leaned his chair back against a microfilm cabinet. "You know, when William Beebe built the first deep-sea chamber in history in the nineteen-thirties -- it was just a gondola suspended from a mother ship by a half-mile cable. It had no buoyancy chambers and no engines -- and if the cable broke, good night. Only it never did. Anyway, what was I saying? Oh, when Beebe built his first deepsea chamber he was going to make it cylindrical; you know, so a man would fit in it comfortably. After all, a man is essentially a tall, skinny cylinder. However, a friend of his argued him out of that and into a sphere on the very sensible grounds that a sphere would resist pressure more efficiently than any other possible shape." Demerest considered that briefly but made no comment. He returned to the earlier topic. "We would particularly like someone from Ocean-Deep," he said, "to visit Luna City because it might lead to a great enough understanding of the need, on Ocean-Deep's part for a course of action that might involve considerable self-sacrifice." "Oh?" Bergen's chair came down on all four legs. "How's that?" "Ocean-Deep is a marvelous achievement -- I wish to detract nothing from that. I can see where it will become greater still, a wonder of the world. Still -- " "Still?" "Still the oceans are only a part of the Earth -- a major part but only a part. The deep sea is only part of the ocean. It is inner space indeed -- it works inward, narrowing constantly to a point." "I think," broke in Annette, looking rather grim, "that you're about to make a comparison with Luna City." est. "Luna City represents outer space, widening to infinity. There is nowhere to go down here in the long run -- everywhere to go out there." "We don't judge by size and volume alone, Mr. Demerest," said Bergen. "The ocean is only a small part of Earth, true, but for that very reason it is intimately human beings. Ocean-Deep is experimental but the settlements on the Continental Shelf already deserve the name of cities. OceanDeep offers mankind the chance of exploiting the whole planet -- " "Of polluting the whole planet," broke in Demerest, excitedly. "Of raping it, of ending it. The concentration of human effort to Earth itself is unhealthy and even fatal if it isn't balanced by a turning outward to the frontier." "There is nothing at the frontier," said Annette, snapping out the words. "The Moon is dead. All the other worlds out there are dead. If there are live worlds among the stars, light-years away, they can't be reached. The ocean is living." "The Moon is living, too, Mrs. Bergen. And if Ocean-Deep allows it, the Moon will become an independent world. We Moonmen will then see to it that other worlds "are reached and made alive and, if mankind has the patience, we will reach the stars. We! We! It is only Moonmen, used to space, used to a world in a cavern, used to an engineered environment who could endure life in a spaceship that may have to travel centuries to reach the stars." "Wait, wait, Demerest," said Bergen, holding up his hand, "Back up. What you do mean -- if Ocean-Deep allows it? What have we to do with it?" "You're competing with us, Mr. Bergen. The Planetary Project Commission will swing your way, give you more, give us less, because in the short term, as your wife says, the ocean is alive and the Moon, except for a thousand men, is not -- because you are a half-dozen miles away and we a can be reached in an hour and we only in three days. And because you have an ideal safety record and we have had -- misfortunes." "The last, surely, is trivial. Accidents can happen at any time, anywhere." "But the trivial can be used," said Demerest angrily. "It can be made to manipulate emotions. To people who don't see the purpose and the importance of space exploration the death of Moonmen in accidents is proof enough that the Moon is dangerous, that its IF colonization is a useless fantasy. Why not? It's their excuse for saving money and they can then salve their conscience by investing part of it in Ocean-Deep instead. That's why I said the accident on the Moon had threatened the survival of Luna City even though it killed only twenty people out of nearly a thousand." "I don't accept your argument. There has been enough money for both for a score of years." "Not enough money. That's exactly it. Not enough to make the Moon self-supporting in all these years -- and then they use that lack of self-support against us. Not enough to make Ocean-Deep self-supporting either -- but now they can give you enough if they cut us out altogether." "Do you think that will happen?" "I'm almost sure it will -- unless Ocean-Deep shows a statesmanlike concern for man's future." "How?" "By refusing to accept additional funds. By not competing with Luna City. By putting the good of the whole race ahead of self-interest." "Surely you don't expect us to dismantle -- " "You won't have to. Don't you see? Join us in explaining that Luna City is essential, that space exploration is the hope of mankind -- that you will wait, retrench if necessary." Bergen looked at his wife and raised his eyebrows. She shook her head angrily. Bergen said, "You have a raththink. Even if I made noble, selfsacrificing speeches, who's to say they would listen. There's a great deal more involved in the matter of Ocean-Deep than my opinion and my statements. There are economic considerations and public feeling. Why don't you relax, Mr. Demerest? Luna City won't come to an end. You'll receive funds. I'm sure of it. I tell you I'm sure of it. Now let's break this up -- " "No, I've got to convince you one way or another that I'm serious. If necessary, Ocean-Deep must come to a halt unless the both." Bergen aid, "Is this some sort of official mission, Mr. Demerest? Are you speaking for Luna City officially or just for yourself?" "Just for myself -- but maybe that's enough, Mr. Bergen," said Demerest. "I don't think it is. I'msorry, but this is turning out to be unpleasant. I suggest that after all you had better return topside on the first available 'scaphe." "Not yet! Not yet!" Demerest looked about wildly, then rose unsteadily and put his back against the wall. He was a little too tall for the room and he became conscious of life receding. One more step and he would have gone too far to back out. IV the Moon that there would be no use talking, no use negotiating. It was dog-eat-dog for the available funds and Luna City's destiny must not be aborted -- not for Ocean-Deep, not for Earth -- no, not for all of Earth, since mankind and the Universe came even before the Earth. Man must outgrow his womb. Demerest could hear his own ragged breathing and the inner turmoil of his whirling thoughts. The other two were looking at him with what seemed concern. Annette rose and said, "Are you ill, Mr. Demerest?" "I am not ill. Sit down. I'm a safety engineer and I want to teach you about safety. Sit down, Mrs. Bergen." "Sit down, Annette," said Bergen. "I'll take care of him." He rose and took a step forward. But Demerest said, "No. Don't you move either. I have something right here. You're too naive concerning human dangers, Mr. Bergen. You guard against the sea and against mechanical failure and you don't search your humdn visitors, do you? I have a weapon, Bergen." Now that it was out and he had taken the final step from which there was no returning -- for he was now dead, whatever he did -- he was quite calm. Annette said, "Oh, John," and grasped her husband's arm. Bergen stepped in front of her. "A weapon? Is that what that thing is? Now slowly, Demerest, slowly. There's nothing to get hot over. If you want to talk we'll talk. What is that?" "Nothing dramatic. A portable laser beam." "But what do you want to do with it?" "Destroy Ocean-Deep." "But you can't, Demerest. You know you can't. You can pack only so much energy into your fist and any laser you can hold can't pump enough heat to penetrate the walls." "I know that. TJiis packs more kick than you think. It's Moonmade and there are some advantages to manufacturing an energy unit in a vacuum -- but you're right. Even so it's designed only for small jobs and requires frequent recharging. So I don't intend to try to cut through a footplus of alloy steel. But it will do the job indirectly. For one thing it will keep you two quiet. There's enough energy in my fist to kill two people." "You wouldn't kill us," said Bergen evenly. "You have no reason." "If by that," said Demerest, "you imply that I am an unreasoning being to be somehow made to understand my madness, forget it. I have every reason to kill you and I will kill you. By laser beam if I have to, though I would rather not." you? Make me understand. Is it that I have refused to sacrifice Ocean-Deep funds? I couldn't do anything else. I'm not really the one to make the decision. And the decision in your direction, will it? In fact, quite the contrary. If a Moonman is a murderer, how will that reflect on Luna City? Consider human emotions on Earth." An edge of shrillness was in Annette's voice as she joined in: "don't you see there will be people who will say that solar radiation on the Moon has dangerous effects? That the genetic engineering which has reorganized your bones and muscles has affected mental stability? Consider the word 'lunatic,' Mr. Demerest. Men once believed the Moon brought madness." "I am not mad, Mrs. Bergen." "It doesn't matter," said Bergen, following his wife's lead smoothly. "Men will say that you were -- that all Moonmen are -- and Luna City will be closed down and the Moon itself closed to all further exploration, perhaps forever. Is that what you want?" "That might happen if they IF thought I killed you -- but they won't. It will be an accident." With his left elbow, Demerest broke the plastic that covered the manual controls. "I know units of this sort," he said. "I know exactly how they work. Logically, breaking that plastic should set up a warning flash -- after all, it might be broken by accident -- and then someone would be here to investigate or, better yet, the controls should lock until deliberately released to make sure the break was not merely accidental." He paused, then said, "But I'm sure no one will come, that no warning has taken place. Your manual system is not fail safe because in your heart you were sure it would never be used." "What do you plan to do?" said Bergen. watched his knees carefully. He said, "If you try to jump toward me I'll shoot at once -- and then keep right on with what I'm doing." "I think maybe you're giving me nothing to lose." "You'll lose time. Let me go right on without interference and you'll have some minutes to keep on talking. You may even be able to talk me out of it. There's my proposal. Don't interfere with me and I will give you your chance to argue." "But what do you plan to do?" "This," said Demerest. He did not have to look. His left hand snaked out and closed a contact. "The fusion unit will now pump heat into the airlock and the steam will empty it. It will take a few minutes. When it's done, I'm sure one of those little red-glass buttons will light." "Are you going to -- " Demerest said, "Why do you ask? You know that I must be intending, having gone this far, to flood Ocean-Deep?" "But why? Damn it, why?" "Because U will be marked down as an accident. Because your safety record will be spoiled. Because it will be a complete catastrophe and will wipe you out. The the glamor of Ocean-Deep will be gone. We will get the funds. We will continue. If I could bring this to pass in some other way I would -- but the needs of Luna City are the needs of mankind and those are paramount." "You will die, too," Annette managed to say. "Of course. Once I am forced to do something like this -- woulcM want to live? I'm not a murderer." "But you will be. If you flood this unit you will flood all of Ocean Deep and kill everyone in it -- and doom those who are out in their subs to slower death. Fifty menand women -- an unborn child -- " "That is not my fault," said Demerest, in clear pain. "I did not expect to find a pregnant woman here but now that I have -- I can't stop because of it." "But you must stop," said Bergen. "You plan won't work unless what happens can be shown to be an accident. They'll find you with a beamemitter in your hand and with the manual controls clearly tampered with. Do you think they won't deduce the truth?" Demerest was feeling very tired. "Mr. Bergen, you sound desperate. Listen -- when the outer door opens, water under a thousand atmospheres of pressure will enter. It will be a massive battering ram that will destroy and mangle everything in its path. The walls of the Ocean-Deep units will remain but everything inside will be twisted beyond recognition. Human beings will be mangled into shredded tissue and splintered bone and death will be instantaneous and unfelt. Even if I were to burn you to death with the laser there'd be nothing left to show it had been done, so I won't hesitate, you see. This manual unit will be smashed anyway -- anything I can do will be erased by the water." "But the beam-emitter; the laser gun. Even damaged, it will be recognizable," said Annette. "We use such things on the Moon, Mrs. Bergen. It is a common tool; it is the optical analog of a jackknife. I could kill you with a jackknife, you know, but one would not deduce that a man carrying a jackknife -- or even holding one with the blade open -- was necessarily planning murder. He might be whittling. Besides, a Moon-made laser is not a projectile gun. It doesn't have to withstand an internal explosion. It is made of thin metal, mechanically weak. After it is smashed by the waterclap I doubt that it will make much sense as an object." Demerest did not have to think to make these statements. He had worked them out within himself through months of self-debate. "In fact," he went on, "how will the investigators ever know what happened in here? They will send 'scaphes down to inspect what is left of Ocean-Deep but how can they get inside without first pumping out the water. They will, in effect, have to build a new Ocean-Deep and that would take -- how long? Perhaps, given public reluctance to throw good money after bad, they might never do it at all and content themselves with dropping a laurel wreath on the dead walls of the dad OceanDeep." Bergen said, "The men on Luna City will know what you have done. Surely one of them will have a conscience. The truth will be known." "One truth," said Demerest, "is that I am not a fool. No one on IF Luna City knows what I planned to do or will suspect what I have done. They sent me down here to negotiate cooperation on the matter of financial grants. I was to argue and nothing more. There's not even a laser beam-emitter missing up there. I put this one together myself out of scrapped parts. And it works. I've tested it." Annette said slowly, "You haven't thought it through. Do you know what you're doing?" "I've thought it through. I know what I'm doing. And I know also that you are both conscious of the lit signal. I'm aware of it. The airlock is empty and time's up, I'm afraid." Rapidly, holding his weapon tensely high, he closed another contact. A circular part of the unit wall cracked into a thin crescent and rolled smoothly away. O UT of the corner of his eye Demerest saw the gaping darkness, but he did not look. A dank salt vapor issued from it -- a queer odor of dead steam. He even imagined he could hear the flopping sound of the gathered water at the bottom of the lock. He said, "The outer door ought to be frozen shut now if the manual unit had been rationally designed. With the inner door open, nothing ought to make the outer door budge. I suspect, though, that the manuals were put together too quickly at first for proper precautions to have been taken. And if I need further evidence that I'm guessing correctly you wouldn't be sitting there so tensely. The outer door will open. I need to touch one more contact and the waterclap will come. We will feel nothing." Annette said, "Don't push it just yet. I have one more thing to say. You said we would have time to persuade you." "While the water was being pushed out." "Just let me say this. A minute. A minute. I said you didn't know what you were doing. You don't. You're destroying the space program, the space program. There's more to space than space." Her voice had grown shrill. "What are you talking about? Make sense or I'll end it all. I'm tired. I'm frightened. I want it over." Annette said, "You're not in Neither is my husband. But I am. Do you think because I am a woman that I'm secondary here. I'm not. You, Mr. Demerest, have your eyes fixed on Luna City only. My husband has his fixed on Ocean-Deep. Neither of you know anything. Where do you expect to go, Mr. Demerest, if you had all the money you wanted? Mars? The asteroids? The satellites of the gas giants? These are all small worlds -- all dry surfaces under a blank sky. It may be generations before we are ready to try for the stars and till then we'd have only pygmy real estate. Is that your ambition? My husband's is no better. He dreams of pushing man's habitat over the ocean floor, a surface not much larger in the last analysis than the surface of the Moon and the other pygmy other hand, want more than either of you -- and if you push that button, mankind's greatest dream will come to nothing." Demerest found himself interested despite himself but he said, "You're just babbling." It was possible, he knew v that somehow they had warned others in Ocean-Deep, that any moment someone would come to interrupt, someone would try to shoot him down. He was, however, staring at the only opening and he had only to close one contact without even looking -- a second's movement. Annette said, "I'm not babbling. You know it took more than rocket ships to colonize the Moon. To make a successful colony possible men had to be altered genetically and adjusted to low-gravity. You are a product of such genetic engineering." "Well?" "And might not genetic engineering also help adjust men to greater gravitational pull? What is the largest solar planet?" "Jupiter." "Yes, Jupiter. Eleven times the diameter of the Earth -- forty times the diameter of the 'Moon. A surface a hundred and twenty times that of the Earth in area -- sixteen hundred times that of the Moon. Conditions so different from anything we can encounter anywhere on the worlds the size of Earth or less that any scientist of any persuasion would give half his life to observe them at close range." "But Jupiter is an impossible target." "Indeed?" said Annette and even managed a faint smile. "As impossible as the Moon? As impossible as flying? Why is it impossible? Genetic engineering could design men with stronger and denser bones, stronger and more compact muscles. The same principles that enclose Luna City against the vacuum and OceanDeepagainst the sea can also enclose the future Jupiter-Deep against its ammoniated surroundings." "The gravitational field -- " "Can be negotiated by nuclear ships now on the drawing board. You don't know that but I do." "We're not even sure about the depth of the atmosphere. The pressures -- " "The pressures! Mr. Demerest, look about you. Why do you suppose Ocean-Deep was really built? To exploit the ocean? The settlements on the Continental Shelf are doing that quite adequately. To gain knowledge of the deepIF sea bottom? We could do that by 'scaphe easily and we could then dollars invested in Ocean-Deep. "Don't you see, Mr. Demerest, that Ocean-Deep must mean something more than that? The purpose of Ocean-Deep is to devise the ultimate vessels and mechanisms that will explore and colonize Jupiter. Look about you and see the beginnings of a Jovian environment -- the closest approach to it we can achieve on Earth. It is only a faint image -- but it's a beginning. Destroy this, Mr. Demerest, and you destroy any hope foF Jupiter. On the other hand, let us live and we will, together, penetrate and settle the brightest jewel of the solar system. And long before we can reach the limits of Jupiter we'll be ready for the stars, for the Earth-type planets circling them -- and the Jupiter-type planets, too. Luna City won't be abandoned because both are necessary for this ultimate aim." For the moment Demerest had altogether forgotten about that last button. He said, "Nobody on Luna City has heard of this." "You haven't. There are those on Luna City who know. If you had told them of your plan of destruction they would have stopped you. Naturally, we can't make this common knowledge and only a few people anywhere can know. The public supports only with difficulty the planetary projects now monious it is because public opinion limits its generosity. What do you suppose public opinion would say if they thought we were aiming toward Jupiter? What a superboondoggle that would be in their eyes. But we continue and what money we can save and make use of we place in the various facets of Project Big World." "Project Big World?" "Yes," said Annette. "You know now and I have committed a serious security breach. But it doesn't matter, does it? Since we're all dead and since the project is, too." "Wait now, Mrs. Bergen." "If you change your mind now -- don't think you can ever talk about Project Big World. That would end the project just as effectively as destruction here would. And it would end both your career and mine. It might end Luna City and Ocean-Deep, too -- so now that you know, maybe it makes no difference anyway. You might just as well push that button." Demerest's brow was furrowed and his eyes burned with anguish. "I don't know -- " Bergen gathered for the sudden jump as Demerest's tense alertness wavered into uncertain introspection but Annette grasped her husband's sleeve. A timeless interval that might have been ten seconds long followed and then Demerest held out his laser. "Take it," he said. "I'll consider myself under arrest." "You can't be arrested," said Annette, "without the whole story coming out." She took the laser and gave it to Bergen. "It will be enough that you return to Luna City and keep silent. Till then we will keep you under guard." Bergen was at the manual controls. The inner door slid shut and after that came the thunderous waterclap of the water returning into the lock. alone again. They had not dared to say a word until Demerest was safely put to sleep under the watchful eyes of two men detailed for the purpose. The unexpected waterclap had aroused everybody and a sharply bowdlerized account of the incident had been given out. The manual controls were now locked off and Bergen said, "From this moment on the manuals will have to be adjusted to fail safe. Visitors will have to be searched." "Oh, John," said Annette. "I think people are insane. There we were, facing death for us and for Ocean-Deep, just the end of everything. And I kept thinking -- I must keep calm, I mustn't have a miscarriage." "You kept calm all right. You were magnificent. I mean, Project Big Planet! I never conceived of such a thing but, by Jove, it's an attractive thought. Wonderful!" "I'm sorry I had to say all that, John. It was all a fake, of course. I made it up. Demerest wanted me to make something up, really. He wasn't a killer or destroyer -- he was, according to his own overheated lights, a patriot. And I suppose he was telling himself he must destroy in order to save -- a common enough view among the small-minded. But he said he would give us time to talk him out of it and I think he was praying we would manage to do so. He wanted us to think of something that would give him the excuse and I gave it to him. I'm sorry I had to fool you, John." "You didn't fool me." "I didn't?" "How could you? I knew you "What made you so sure of that? Because I'm a woman?" "Not at all. Because I'm a member, Annette, and that's confidential. And, if you don't mind, I will begin a move to initiate exactly what you suggested -- Project Big World." "Well!" Annette considered that and, slowly, smiled. "Well! Women do have their uses." "Something," said Bergen, smiling also, "I have never denied."  IF The blue star was an anti-paradox manifestation... Powers, falling helplessly into it, was a paradox #. ChiMuZeta was discovered in ancient times, possibly as early as # A.D. However, its discoverers knew only its initial properties mnd doubtless this was why they classified as radiation and nicknamed "saltpeter" a force that transcends both space and time and supervises the consistency of the history of man... T HE spaceship Powers had stolen in his bid to regain his manhood was one of the new superfreighters the Company had recently put into use. Powers was no stranger to sophisticated ships but this one was not merely sophisticated -- it was ultra-sophisticated. It did his laundry, prepared his meals and made his bed. It thought up games for the two of them to play and told him stories to amuse him. It kept him company when he was lonely and sang Brahms' Lullaby to him when he couldn't sleep. It was all things to him -- mentor, servant, maid, slave. The only function it couldn't perform was that of mistress. But Powers had no need of a mistress. That was why he was journeying to the Blue Star. The ship's name was M.A.R.Y. M for Morning Mist A for Afterglow R for Reawakening Y for Yearning. These were the planets it had been commissioned to serve; this was how freighters derived their names. The Blue Star had no name -- only a catalog number: X-#-D. But catalog numbers frequently become names and this had happened in the case of the Blue Star. Over the years X-#-D had transmuted to Extend. Centered in the viewscreen of the Mary , it brought to mind a bright blue diamond lying in a jeweler's showcase. There are other diamonds in the showcase -- red ones, yellow, green, orange -- but these were relatively insignificant in the Blue Star's presence: mere grains of cosmic dust the cosmic jeweler had forgotten to flick from his cosmic show-cushion. Powers, who had begun life as a foundling and who had once been an hermaphrodite, had been staring at the star for some time. Now he turned his eyes away to rest them. But the Blue Star went right on burning on his retina almost as intensely as it burned in his brain. He bent over the star map he had come into the chart room to study. If he succeeded in regaining his virility he would need a faraway place to expend it -- preferably one on the other side of the galaxy from both Crag and Sublime. Crag was the home of the penal colony in which he had abided for four years and Sublime was the home of the Institute for Sublime Learning -- more comIF monly known as "Salt Peter's Cathedral" -- where he had been impotentialized. He had a second reason for studying the map. TJie Beta Tau Storms. He knew that only the ship could see him safely through them but he wanted to know where they were. A S HE sat staring at the little purple spirals that denoted their general whereabouts, the door of the chart room opened and the "stewardess" came in. Powers didn't want to look at her but he did anyway. The ship was some forty hours out from Twilight, the Company-owned planet where he had stolen it, yet he still wasn't wholly accustomed to this compelling combination of postures, attitudes, charm, companionableness, erudition and femininity electronically transformed into a comely girl. He watched her as she walked toward him across the room, looked at her hungrily as she paused beside him. Faint golden fuzz grew upon her rounded forearms; her perfume made him think of terrestrial fields of buttercups and clover. The curve of her chin made his heart ache. Her name was the ship's name -- Mary. She said, "Have you charted the storms to your satisfaction, Ben?" "I'm afraid only you can see us safely through the storms," Powers said. She smiled. "I'll do my best." He felt the material of her blue blouse touch his cheek as she tidied up the chart table. This was not wholly illusion. A projection she might be -- an electronically brewed personification of the ship -- but she had a substance of sorts. Without it she would not have been able to do his laundry, prepare his meals and make his bed. And her reality went even deeper, for the ganglions of supershipcomputers were duplicates of the human brain. She said suddenly, "Are we following an orthodox course to Morning Mist, Ben?" Caught off guard. Powers played for time. "Does it seem unorthodox?" She laughed. "I pay little attention to such matters. The pilot programs me and I obey." She paused. Then: "But I am curious to know why you only partially programed me. As matters stand we shall proceed to Extend and make precisely two orbits around it at a mean altitude of # miles. Then what?" "Then," said Powers, seeing his way clear, "I will reprogram you, correcting the error I made in my original programing and putting us on an orthodox course to Morning Mist." She said, "Oh, I see." And then: "I thought of a different game for us to play tonight, Ben. It's an awfully old one, but it's lots of fun. It's called checkers." Powers had never heard of it. But playing it might get the Blue Star off his mind. "I'll look forward to it," he said. "Fine. See you at supper." ers got up and stepped over to the drink dispenser. He dialed a cold daiquiri and drank it slowly. I wonder what I'd do, he thought, if she were a real woman. The answer, of course, was -- nothing. When they impotentialized you they burned a little ditty into your brain for you to think of and hum the music to when doubts assailed you. It went like this: Impotent I may be But I will see Stars lovers know as dust In the blindness of their lust... He hummed the tune now, thinking the words. And the words danced in his mind -- twisted, turned, attenuated, took on flesh and shaped themselves into naked nymphs and the nymphs cavorted licentiously around a grotesque Pan -- and the Pan was himself, hooves rooted in the ground, straining straining to be free, the while idiotically playing the impotentialization tune upon a syrinx. The techs at Salt Peter's Cathedral hadn't known that he had once been an hermaphrodite and he hadn't told them. He kept that part of his life a deep dark secret. But he should have told them. Maybe they would have known what Powers had subsequently found out -- that ex-hermaphrodites have a partial immunity to ChiMuZeta -- and would have exposed him for a longer period of time. As it was they had taken away just enough of his manhood to make it impossible for him to have a woman and left just enough of it for him to want one. been serving a life sentence for multiple rape when the penal colony officials had put the proposition to him. However, it was a crime he was not guilty of -- could not possibly have been guilty of for the simple reason that he had not been on the scene when it had been committed. The proposition the penal colony officials put to him was as follows: if he would submit to impotentialization and accept a lifetime job as a long-run pilot for Stellar Carriers, Inc., he would be given his freedom. The reason long-run pilots were impotentialized was that the runs sometimes lasted as long as four years and a man who did not want a woman could live alone for longer periods of time than one who did. The proposition was a standard IF one and had been put to innumerable lifers before Powers -- this was the only way the carriers could obtain long-run pilots. None of the lifers had refused. Powers hadn't refused either. A little bit of freedom was better than none. He had been sent directly to Sublime. There the techs at Salt Peter's Cathedral had briefed him on ChiMuZeta in accordance with the law and had given him the Treatment. It had required exactly one long run -- a relatively short one -- for Powers to discover that the Treatment hadn't taken. At first, naturally enough, he had assumed that it had had no effect upon him at all and he had rejoiced in the thought that he had cheated both the penal colony and the Company. Thdn, in a mirrored room in an orbital brothel off Twilight he had discovered that he had cheated no one except himself. #. At first the ancients knew only that ChiMuZeta came from the star X-IO-D, that exposure to it for the duration of a single orbit at a mean altitude of # miles (or the' equivalent thereof ) resulted in impotence and that exposure for the duration of two orbits at the same mean altitude (or the equivalent thereof ) resulted in restoration of virility. They would not even have known this much had not one of them. apparently by accident, made an orbit at this altitude and had not another of them, years later under a galactic government grant and in company with a female of the species, made two... served it. As was her custom, she sat across the table from him and kept him company while he ate. Tonight she had served roast leg of lamb, baked sweet potato, diced carrots, mint jelly and hot buttered rolls -- all synthetics, of course, but extremely tasty. Powers asked for a second helping of mint jelly and Mary, clearly pleased, spooned him out a generous one. He enjoyed the meal immensely, as he did all her meals. They were a far cry from the fare he'd been accustomed to on Crag and an even farther one from the fare he'd known in the Our Mother of Moses Orphanage on Sinai where he'd spent the first sixteen years of his life. The Our Mother of Moses Orphanage, though, hadn't been responsible for its meager fare. Sinai was a barren planet and had to import all its foodstuffs, and practical considerations, such as money, posed severe limitations on what could be imported. But while Powers couldn't blame Our Mother of Moses for the skimpiness of her meals, he could -- and did -- blame her for abysmal ignorance he had been kept in during the early part of his life. It wasn't till after he left the place behind him and worked his way to Lebanon on a food frieghter that he found out what was wrong with him. Fortunately Lebanon, even in those days, had been an enlightened' planet and he'd had no trouble getting the wrongness set right. "Come on," Mary said, sweeping the remnants of the meal into the dissolver. "Let's play checkers." He followed her out of the little galley and down the corridor to the lounge. The lounge was small and compact, and contained among other things a little round table with two chairs. A checkerboard ly on the table, a stack of red checkers on one side of it and a stack of black ones on the other. They sat down. Mary placed the checkers on their proper squares and explained the rules of the game to him. Powers made the first move. She won the first game -- he, the second. He knew, of course, that she had let him win. But he caught on swiftly, began to plan three, sometimes four moves ahead. Mary of course could plan any number of moves ahead but this posed a challenge and served to make the game all the more intriguing. For some reason his mind was unusually keen tonight. As he continued to play it grew keener yet and he found himself looking six moves ahead. Nine. Finally, when they stood at ten games apiece, the following pattern appeared upon the board. All of the men were kinged, and it was Powers' turn: The sharpness of Powers' mind was now such that he could see simultaneously every possible move he could make, every possible move Mary could make, the subsequent patterns that would emerge and the new sets of possible moves that went with them. Thus, he saw not only the pattern itself, but all of its potential ramifications. The overall pattern was fascinating in its complexity. He stared at it intently, studying its intricate lines and angles. The original pattern was no longer distinguishable: fact and extrapolation had become one. He found presently that he could no longer tell which of the lines represented his potential moves and which Mary's. But that was all right; it was the pattern that counted -- not its individual parts. Mary's face, intending to tell IF her about the fascinating pattern -- but he saw that she already knew about it. She had stood up, he noticed, and was gesturing for him to do the same. He obeyed. It seemed only natural that he should. Now she was leaving the lounge, looking back at him over her shoulder. Follow me, her eyes said. He did so. Along the corridor to the companionway. Down the companionway to the lower deck. Across the lower deck to the lifts. "Follow me," Mary said. "Yes, I'll follow you," he said. "I'll follow wherever you go." He followed her into Lift-A, dropped down with her to the deck-level of Hold-A. Here, locks confronted them. Atmosphere was never maintained in the holds of freighters unless the goods being transported required it and the holds of the Mary were empty. The first note of wrongness struck Powers when Mary began turning the deactivator on the inner lock. Shouldn't he be suited? He asked her. She did not answer but went on turning the activator. The inner lock swung open. She stepped into the intra-lock compartment. He almost followed. The pattern was less clear in his mind now. Its lines were wavering, running together. What was he doing in the holdarea? "Mary, why have we come here?" he asked. She did not answer. She was busy turning a dial on the inner wall. He knew the function of the dial. It controlled the mechanism that closed the inner lock and then opened the outer one. Whoosh! the pocket of air in the intra-lock compartment would go as it rushed into Hold-A and dispersed -- and Powers' blood would gush from his nose and mouth and his lungs would come in clots from his mouth and his ghost would join the other ghosts that walked the black boulevard of space. "Mary!" He leaped through the narrowing aperture and sought to seize her arm and pull her away from the deadly dial. But while she had substance of sorts it was not the substance of flesh and bone and he could not hold on to her. The inner lock had almost closed. He jumped through the narrow opening, barely in time. The pattern was no more but traces of his trance still remained. He watched, horrified, as the lock closed the rest of the way, sealing Mary in the airless hold. Then the last traces of the trance vanished and sanity returned. The ship had tried to kill him. Why? He reentered the lift, reactivated it. He was sweating when he stepped out on the lower deck. Why should the ship want to kill him? He climbed the companionway to the living quarters, walked down the corridor to the lounge. Entering, he swept checkerboard and checkers from the table and sat down. He noticed that his hands were trembling. prised when Mary materialized opposite him. She was sitting in the other chair as though she'd been there all along. Her right elbow rested on the tabletop and her chin was cupped in the palm of her right hand. She said, "You have more individuality than I thought." "Why?" he asked hoarsely. "Why, Mary -- why?" "I'm a supership -- remember?" The truth came hdme to him then. Superships were conditioned to react when stolen. But how did tftey know when they were stolen? Specifically, how had this one known? How had he betrayed himself? He put the question to Mary. She answered, "By that glib lie you told this afternoon when I asked why you had only partially programed me. It would have taxed the credulity of an idiot and an idiot I am not. I should have guessed the truth from the emptiness of my holds," she added almost ruefully, "but I did not, because according to my data freighters occasionally do leave home port without cargo." "Do you know why I stole you?" Powers asked. "Do you know, Mary, why I'm going to Extend?" She shook her head. "It makes no difference." "But it does make a difference," Powers said desperately. "All you have to do is bear with me for another forty-eight hours. We'll have reached Extend by that time and have completed two orbits around it. That's all I want -- two orbits. Then I'll program you to return to Twilight and the minute we arrive I'll turn myself in to the port authority." "Talk sense, Ben." "All right, I will," Powers said. "If you kill me you're as good as dead yourself, because you can't reprogram yourself. You'll simply stay on your present course, go into orbit around Extend and stay in orbit." She shook her head. "Ben, Ben -- why do you persist in thinking superships are dumb? The only reason I can't reprogram myself is because like all superships I'm conditioned to obey the, programing of the pilot. But only as long as the pilot is alive. The minute you're dead I'll be free to go wherever I please." Powers sighed. It had been a lousy hand but he had played it for all it was worth. For some reason Mary's face was less distinct now than it had been a few moments ago. But he IF was aware of this only in the back part of his mind. "I'll tell you one thing," he said. "You'll find me a little more difficult to deal with now that I'm alerted. You won't be able to hypnotize me with a checker game again -- that's for sure. Nor," he added with a rueful smile, "get me into a prehypnotic state by feeding me souped-up mint jelly." A thought struck him. Why hadn't she simply poisoned him and been done with it? But he didn't bother to ask the question, not only because she wouldn't have given him a straight answer but because he guessed the truth -- there were no suitable toxins on board. He said, "Well, anyway, it was a good try." "I'll do better next time." The matter-of-fact way she said it sent a shiver through him. He realized suddenly -- consciously this time -- that her face was blurred. Transferring his gaze to the wall behind her he found that it, too, was blurred. So were the other aspects of the room. For a moment he thought that she had somehow contrived to drug him again -- then he noticed that the air was shimmering, as though filled with foreign matter, and the truth overwhelmed him. He was on his feet, shouting, "We're entering a Beta Tau storm! Why aren't your alarms sounding?" She smiled demurely up at him. "Don't shout at me, Ben. You programed the course." He whirled, ran out of the room and down the corridor toward the protective-equipment lockers. Laughter sounded behind him -- Mary's. It died abruptly when he reached the storage room and slammed the door behind him. The lockers were on the opposite wall. #. Later the ancients discovered that prolonged exposure to Chi MuZeta resulted in disintegration. Their first inkling of this came when the special-alloy tanks they had devised for transporting and storing the " radiation ' transmuted from a solid to a translucent and finally to a transparent state. They suspected that there might be still another phase and tentatively named it " transintegration' " -- a term that endures to this day. But despite the accidental accuracy of the term the ancients still hadn't the faintest conception of the true nature of the force at their fingertips , nor would they guess for another hundred years that ChiMuZeta in its ultimate form is an Anti-Paradox Manifestation -- a force created in a star by the cosmos in order to hiatuses -- and correcting their accompanying inconsistencies -- in the past -- hiatuses occasioned by mankind's unconscious ability to create en masse... Mary he was seated before the viewscreen in the chart room wearing a synthi-lead suit that weighed nearly one hundred pounds. He was looking at the Blue Star, which now filled the screen and about which the ship would shortly go into orbit. Mary materialized next to the screen -- it was as though she had stepped through the bulkhead. The photon filter had toned down that almost matched the color of her uniform. She asked, "Comfortable, Ben?" He glared at her through the suit's faceplate. "I know who you are now," he said into the transmitter. "Keats saw you by the lake. You're La Belle Dame Sans Merci. You're Death." "You're jumping the gun, Ben. When Keats saw the lady he was dying. You didn't get anywhere near enough Beta-Tau radiation to put you in an analogous fix." "You sound disappointed." "Iam." "Bitch." She grinned. "Why don't you take off your suit, Ben? The storm's safely behind us." It was true and he almost fell for her suggestion. Then he saw that rime was forming on the viewscreen controls and on all the other metal parts in the room. Cold sweat came out on his forehead and ran down into his eyes. "You'd like that, wouldn't you?" he said. And then: "What's the temperature out there?" "A cool minus four hundred and ten Fahrenheit and dropping. Come on out, Ben -- it's quite refreshing." "You opened all the locks?" "Every one. And that's not all I did, Ben." He did not need to ask what she meant. For some time now he had been aware of a growing heaviness in his limbs. Tentatively he tried to raise his right arm, found that he could barely do so. And when he tried to stand he only half-succeeded, then collapsed back into the chair. He estimated his weight, suit and all, to be about eight hundred and seventy pounds. Mary was grinning at him. "Three G's were all I could muster. My artificial-grav unit isn't what it should be." How long could he endure three G's? And how much oxygen did he have left? A glance at the indicator informed him that he had a thirty-five-hour supply. More than enough to see him through two orbits. As for the suit, it would be no hindrance -- it kept out Beta-Tau radiation but not ChiMuZeta. IF But what then? How would he reprogram the ship if he couldn't move out of his chair? But he would be able to move out of his chair. When all of the chips were down, Mary would have to turn down the grav-unit. If she didn't she, too, would face disintegration. She hadn't won, then, after all. From the way she continued to grin at him, though, you would have thought she had. She said, "In about a day and a half you'll be dead. Why don't you give up the ghost now?" "In a day and a half," Powers said, "we'll be in our third orbit around Extend. Doesn't that mean anything to you?" "Only that you'll be dead." Clearly she did not know -- probably because her builders, in view of the fact that none of the commercial routes came anywhere near Extend, hadn't thought it necessary to include the data in her memory banks -- that if she exceeded two orbits around Extend she would be running the risk of disintegration. Would he, when the time came, be able to convince her that the only way she could save her own "life" was by saving his? It was a chance he would have to take. Because if he tried to convince her now and succeeded she would try another means of killing him and this time the attempt might very well come off. By keeping her in ignorance for a while he could obtain the time he needed. "Well, I'll leave you to your thoughts, Ben," she said. "I imagine you have quite a few." And so saying, she dematerialized. The Mary gave a slight shudder as the first braking rocket fired. A series of shudders followed as successive rockets discharged themselves. Then the Mary was in orbit. #. Most paradoxes involve religious legends that through the ages successive generations of believers have turned into fact . AntiParadox Manifestations occur when such legends finally become fact and lie in wait till mankind discovers them and -- in the case of the ancients -- misinterprets them and unwittingly supplies them with the ingredients necessary for the correction. In ancient for thousands of years. ized the ship had entered its second orbit around Extend. She was furious. "What kind of a pilot are you, Powers?" she demanded. "We're falling into the sun!" At first Powers thought she was lying. Then he saw that the rime had vanished from the control knobs and he discovered that he could stand up. "How -- how much altitude have we lost?" second we stand here we're losing thousands more. Get out of that suit and into the programing room before it's too late!" He could only stand there. Four lion by now. It was already too late. According to the briefing he had received from the ChiMuZeta techs, the intensity of ChiMuZeta radiation at even minus one million miles was double that of impotentialization level. He had spent hours programing the course, had checked and double-checked the orbital-velocity-altitude ratio. How could he possibly have erred? Suddenly out of a corner of his mind came a thought he had kicked around shortly after the briefing and then forgotten about: how could the first man to orbit Extend have found the impotentialization level by accident? The odds against his doing so were staggering. Perhaps he hadn't found it by accident. And perhaps Powers' miscalculation wasn't an accident either. Perhaps he and Mary were pieces on a cosmic checkerboard with no more volition than the checkers they themselves had used so short a time ago. But his insight went no deeper. He felt the awesome shudder that passed through the ship as its overheated drive went off, saw the fiery surface of Extend take on dreadful detail as the Mary's fall accelerated. He heard Mary's screams as she tried vainly to pull him from the room. He saw the bulkheads shimmer, then fade away as disintegration began. And then he knew no more. reality, are not subject to time: this is a restriction which we our selves impose upon them. Hence the seeming anachronism result ing from an A PM correction is an anachronism only in our own eyes, and not a true anachronism at all. dream Powers climbed a black mountain, descended into a dark abyss from whose depths stars could be seen shining high in the immensities. He stood there darkly, looking up at them, then lifting his arms to them he seized their light and wove a golden ladder which he climbed like Jacob into heaven. There lay the stars before him in a great black river of spacetime -- he straddled the river and looked down into its depths and saw that it did not flow but lay there like a dark immobile interval; and through the interval swam the fishes of men. He saw other things in the river, too, he IF saw nebulae and planets and ships and suddenly he saw the Mary -- and Mary and the Mary were one, swimming in the darkness of the river. He could see all of the river because it occupied neither space nor time although it embodiedboth. It lay there Mobius-striplike beneath him, with its stars and planets and ships and silly men-fish going nowhere. It was his river, there for him to fish in and if he chose he could become a fish himself. Around him in the darkness he sensed other beings like himself and knew that they owned rivers, too, with fishes in them. I will become a fish for a while, he thought evilly, and diminished down into the static stream and stepped out upon a planet called Sacred Heart. He saw a park and entered into the cool shade of trees and made his way to a round white building with a tall tower on top. He thought whimsically, Here are mortals who presume to be my wives , and he passed through a wide entranceway and into the Cloister and climbed a flight of stairs to the chapel where the Holy Sisters were praying. When they saw him, they screamed his crime. He left the building and exceeded and stood above his river, looking down into the oneness of past-present-future. There was a girl named Mary, he remembered, who had tried to kill him. She was not flesh and blood like the other fishes. She was a projection, but she had been devised by men and therefore had been compounded of race memories -- and where those memories began, there would he find the basic Mary... He looked down into his river and after a while he saw her in the fields and he diminished and --  -- stood before her. When the girl Mary saw him she did not flee. It was as though she had known that he was coming, as though she had prayed that he would come. She did not struggle when he seized her arm and pulled her into the dim shadows of an olive grove, nor when he divested her of her robes. "I shall have a child by thee," she said when he had taken his revenge, "and he will be of virgin birth. For I know that thou art not like other men -- that I have been chosen from amongst a thousand women to do thee honor." He was mollified and no longer bore her ill will. She was the basic Mary and she was good. It was the false memories that had intruded over the millennia that had given her guile and robbed her of compassion. He exceeded and looked down into his river and saw that all was well. After a while he caused a bright star to appear where none had been before, to show that he was pleased.  I The rain placed a warm film over everything it touched, softenteeth of his trauma, Mamson the island with a tireless paworth remembered her smile. And tience quite unlike the other drivother things. The way the rain fell ing rains he had known; and the on Hydria: soft and diffused and trembling colors imprisoned in his everywhere at once, as though head had illuminated a part of some strange osmosis had sifted it himself that had always been deepthrough the pores of space -- and ly buried in the dark night of his colors so bright that his corroded soul. mind ached with their memory. It had been raining the last time He had conquered the star trails -- and no w nothing of him was left for woman or man to love, hate or rule they had stopped over on Island One. In fact, he couldn't recall a time when it had not been raining on that vast oceanic world and its scattered islands. Never once had he looked out over the island without the gentle pervading film of rain coming between himself and the landscape, while overhead an unseen sun burnished the deep layer of cloud a hazy shade of copper. Hydria was only a whistlestop on the great bustle Outward. The water world was inexhaustible and it allowed the thirsty ships from Earth to drink their fill of reaction mass before they moved on with their urgent business of remaking the universe. There were richer prizes to be won than this almost landless world and the Service had contented itself with carving out a landfall and stop-over port for its ships on one of the equatorial islands. So perfunctory was this activity that they hardly bothered to give the place a name, only a number. Hydria had nothing more that they could plunder and so she was spared the indignities commensurate with terraforming, a rapacious process that had already remolded many brave new worlds in the delightful image of mother Earth. Yes, it had been raining and the Barain had loomed large on the wet tarmac -- a great metal canister from Earth, tended by Servicemen in their smooth plastic suits, moving around the base of the monolith like pale white grubs groping around the carcass of some dead animal. thing of a ritual. Marnsworth had first disposed of his captain's uniform and then pulled on a flimsy transparent plastic sheath over his underwear. It would insulate his body and ensure that it was maintained at the proper temperature regardless of his external environment. Over this he donned a heavier but in no way cumbersome survival suit. It was fitted out with a number of tiny powerpacks, from which fine cables sprouted like delicate vines, fed the thermostatic insulator underneath and provided power for the faint but adequate deadfield that radiated outward from the wide belt at his waist. He checked this carefully before he zipped shut the transparent parka fitted to the suit -- the field would annihilate any dangerous microorganisms for quite some distance around him, ensuring that he could venture safely beyond the controlled environment of his ship without fear of any serious contamination. Such caution was necessary. Many lives had been forfeited in the early and clumsy days of space exploration to inadequate personnel protection. These days full survival suiting was mandatory for all Servicemen, even if they only stepped outside for a few moments to urinate. More than a century of modifications had made living in spacesuits comfortable and he was the animal spirit of his age -- a spaceman. A starship was his natural environment. The Barain surrendered him to the Island. He was escalated to ground level with all the care that a child could expect from its mother. He planted his protected feet on the wet tarmac and waited while they broke out a skiff. He looked up and felt a sudden longing for the clear controlled skies of Earth. Through the sifting rain he could barely distinguish the Service buildings crowding the perimeter of the field. Fine detail was blurred by the pervading drizzle, so that they loomed squat and ugly in the coppery sunlight. IF Vaguely he could discern the figures of some local landmen lounging against the buildings and studying the stranded starship. They seemed not to notice the rain, seemed also to draw some nourishment from the humid wetness and the pallid sunshine. Their chests were bared to both and they were probably prepared to spend the rest of their lives covered with the same warm film of moisture that was clouding his parka. If their dull faces had anything to communicate it was obliterated by the drifting rain. High up in the belly of the Barain a panel opened and a compact surface craft nosed its way out. A driver adept at his task guided the skiff down to a neat landing only a few paces away from where Damian Marnsworth waited. The captain stepped forward impatiently, thanked the young Serviceman and assumed solitary command of the sleek craft. He sat down before the sparsely detailed instrument panel, fidgeted nervously with the toggles and switches. It had been some time since he had driven a surface craft and, although it was capable of automatic piloting, he felt it essential that he become confident with the few manual controls before he moved off. He looked straight ahead, trying to pierce the solid veil of water that enveloped the hazy outlines of the landfall buildings. Beyond them stretched the great rain forests of Island One that had swallowed up Gerard Childers and now kept him jealously hidden from the Barain and its crew. Childers had been the best drivesman he had ever known. He had disappeared several stopovers ago. An immediate, quick and cursory search of the settlement had been sufficient to convince Marnsworth that his man had taken to the forest and was too well hidden for them to be able to flush him out with the limited time at their disposal. Childers had timed his break for the very last few minutes of landfall time. Once the initial flurry of excitement had been over Marnsworth had had no recourse but to up-ship on schedule and return to Earth with his second drivesman in charge of the engines. Technicians were plentiful and Service Schedules were, like all parts of the Plan, impressively expensive. Each day spent away from Earth cost the administration mega-credits and the eager expansion of Earth's embryonic stellar empire was being accomplished with all the thoroughness that three centuries of red tape could muster. A maximum of eight hours stopover was mandatory for all ships and any captain who exceeded this limit without proper justification was quickly broken. A minor technician just wasn't worth it. B UT for Damian Marnsworth the situation went deeper than that; so deep that it hurt and had left a small weeping wound that refused to heal. Gerard Childers had been more than a mere technical subordinate -- he had been a friend. They had schooled together and stepped out in the great ships to master space together and in this respect Childers' desertion had assumed the quality of a moral betrayal. He had left without a word of explanation, without any warning whatsoever -- but this day Marnsworth was determined to challenge the rain forests and wrest from Childers the reason for his madness. In his hands he held a map, a clumsy effort drawn by one of the local landmen the trip before last. It had cost him a considerable amount of money -- but not so much that it could not be safely written off into petty cash -- and the information he had drawn from it and fed into the skiff's auto-pilot would guide him to Childers. Marnsworth had wormed the crude drawing out of a drunken recluse in the Service bar -- perhaps it was the way landmen disintegrated their society and fragmented into so many different forms that made them seem so disgusting -- and he had been restlessly waiting for an opportunity that would enable him to put it to use. And this time he had one. Deep in the Barains belly an overstressed and underserviced main drive unit was undergoing urgently needed repairs. Tire work would take several days. The task was complex and only when the chief engineer had the massive engine stripped down and examined would he know what to do and how long it would take to reassemble and test the unit. There would be plenty of time. The clear canopy of the skiff was already beaded with moisture. Marnsworth moved a toggle that set the auto-pilot in motion. The skiff moved skyward, hesitated for a moment several hundred feet above the tarmac while it checked the coordinates for Childers' hideout and then skimmed off over the settlement in the direction of the great northern rain forest. 